CITY OF MASON, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-12 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2023-114, passed 12-11-2023
State legislation current through 7-4-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com 
ROSTER OF OFFICIALS
of the
CITY OF MASON, OHIO
Council
Council
Diana K. Nelson, Mayor
Ashley Chance, Vice Mayor
Joy Bennett, Council member
Scott Gibson, Council member
Mark Haake, Council member
Barbara Spaeth, Council member
Josh Styrcula, Council member
 
Officials
Officials
Eric Hansen       City Manager
Jennifer Heft     Assistant City Manager
Jeff Forbes       Law Director
Vacant            Clerk of Council
Chrissy Avery     Parks and Recreation Director
Michele Blair     Economic Development Director
Bryan Brumagen    Fire Chief
Shawn Hollon      Public Utilities Director
Vacant            Safety Director
Joe Reigelsperger Finance Director
Steve Hartke      City Engineer
Ryan Tyree        Public Works Director
Levi Wells        Chief of Police
Kurt Seiler       Service Director
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
**** ORDINANCE NO. 2011 - 86 ****
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF MASON REVISING,
AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Ohio empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has
authorized a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances
of the Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication
of such ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council of the City of Mason, Ohio,
seven members elected thereto concurring:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the City of Mason as revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Mason."
   Section 2. Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the Titles set forth in Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated herein by
reference.
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4. Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 5. Such Code shall be in full force and effective as provided in
Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 6. That this Ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure
necessary for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at
the earliest date provided by law. The reason for said declaration of emergency
is the need to re-codify the ordinances at the earliest possible date for the
proper conduct of the affairs of the City of Mason.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision
on this 24th day of October, 2011.
                               Donald R. Prince /s/  
                                 Mayor
Attest:
Nancy Hickey /s/
Clerk of Council
**** ORDINANCE NO. 2012 - 70 ****
ADOPTING THE REVISION, CODIFICATION, RECODIFICATION, REARRANGEMENT AND
PUBLICATION OF THE ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS OF THE CITY OF MASON, IN BOOK
FORM, FOR THE CURRENT SUPPLEMENT.
   WHEREAS, an updating of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Mason has
been completed; and
   WHEREAS, Charter Section 4.15 A. requires a vote of four members of Council
for the revision, codification, recodification, rearrangement or publication of
the ordinances and resolutions of the City of Mason, in book form; and
   WHEREAS, Charter Section 4.15 B. requires that Council shall cause notice of
a meeting for consideration of the revision, codification, recodification,
rearrangement, or publication of the ordinances and resolutions, in book form,
to be published. Said notice shall include the date, time and place of the
meeting of Council to consider the revision, codification, recodification,
rearrangement or publication of the ordinances and resolutions, in book form,
the full text of which need not be published; and
   WHEREAS, said notice shall be published one time in a newspaper, determined
by Council to be of circulation within the City of Mason, at least seven days
prior to the final approval by Council and shall state that a copy of the
revision, codification, recodification, rearrangement or publication of the
ordinances and resolutions of the City of Mason, in book form, is available for
public viewing in the office of the Clerk of Council.
   WHEREAS, Council chooses to follow the procedure outlined above in adopting
a supplement to the Codified Ordinances as authorized under Charter Section
4.15 C.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council of the City of Mason, Ohio,
six members elected thereto concurring:
   Section 1. That the revision, codification, recodification, rearrangement or
publication of the ordinances and resolutions of the City of Mason, Ohio, in
book form, for the 2012 Supplement is hereby adopted.
   Section 2. That a copy of said 2012 Supplement is on file in the office of
the Clerk of Council.
   Section 3. That this Ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest period allowed by law.
   Passed this 22nd day of October, 2012.
                            /s/
                              Vice Mayor
Attest:
/s/
      Clerk of Council
**** ORDINANCE NO. 2014 - 68 ****
ADOPTING THE REVISION, CODIFICATION, RECODIFICATION, REARRANGEMENT AND
PUBLICATION OF THE ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS OF THE CITY OF MASON, IN BOOK
FORM, FOR THE CURRENT SUPPLEMENT
   WHEREAS, an updating of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Mason has
been completed; and
   WHEREAS, Charter Section 4.15 A. requires a vote of four members of Council
for the revision, codification, recodification, rearrangement or publication of
the ordinances and resolutions of the City of Mason, in book form; and
   WHEREAS, Charter Section 4.15 B. requires that Council shall cause notice of
a meeting for consideration of the revision, codification, recodification,
rearrangement, or publication of the ordinances and resolutions, in book form,
to be published. Said notice shall include the date, time and place of the
meeting of Council to consider the revision, codification, recodification,
rearrangement or publication of the ordinances and resolutions, in book form,
the full text of which need not be published; and
   WHEREAS, said notice shall be published one time in a newspaper, determined
by Council to be of circulation within the City of Mason, at least seven days
prior to the final approval by Council and shall state that a copy of the
revision, codification, recodification, rearrangement or publication of the
ordinances and resolutions of the City of Mason, in book form, is available for
public viewing in the office of the Clerk of Council.
   WHEREAS, Council chooses to follow the procedure outlined above in adopting
a supplement to the Codified Ordinances as authorized under Charter Section
4.15 C.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council of the City of Mason, Ohio,
six members elected thereto concurring:
   Section 1.   That the revision, codification, recodification, rearrangement
or publication of the ordinances and resolutions of the City of Mason, Ohio, in
book form, for the 2014 Supplement is hereby adopted.
   Section 2.   That a copy of said 2014 Supplement is on file in the office of
the Clerk of Council.
   Section 3.   That this Ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest period allowed by law.
   Passed this 13th day of October, 2014.
                                              /s/
                                             Mayor
Attest:
/s/
Clerk of Council
**** ORDINANCE NO. 2016-120 ****
ADOPTING THE REVISION, CODIFICATION, RECODIFICATION, REARRANGEMENT AND
PUBLICATION OF THE ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS OF THE CITY OF MASON, IN BOOK
FORM, FOR THE CURRENT SUPPLEMENT
   WHEREAS, an updating of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Mason has
been completed; and
   WHEREAS, Charter Section 4.15 A. requires a vote of four members of Council
for the revision, codification, recodification, rearrangement or publication of
the ordinances and resolutions of the City of Mason, in book form; and
   WHEREAS, Charter Section 4.15 B. requires that Council shall cause notice of
a meeting for consideration of the revision, codification, recodification,
rearrangement, or publication of the ordinances and resolutions, in book form,
to be published. Said notice shall include the date, time and place of the
meeting of Council to consider the revision, codification, recodification,
rearrangement or publication of the ordinances and resolutions, in book form,
the full text of which need not be published; and
   WHEREAS, said notice shall be published one time in a newspaper, determined
by Council to be of circulation within the City of Mason, at least seven days
prior to the final approval by Council and shall state that a copy of the
revision, codification, recodification, rearrangement or publication of the
ordinances and resolutions of the City of Mason, in book form, is available for
public viewing in the office of the Clerk of Council.
   WHEREAS, Council chooses to follow the procedure outlined above in adopting
a supplement to the Codified Ordinances as authorized under Charter Section
4.15 C.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council of the City of Mason, Ohio,
seven members elected thereto concurring:
   Section 1.   That the revision, codification, recodification, rearrangement
or publication of the ordinances and resolutions of the City of Mason, Ohio, in
book form, for the 2016 Supplement is hereby adopted.
   Section 2.   That a copy of said 2016 Supplement is on file in the office of
the Clerk of Council.
   Section 3.   That this Ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest period allowed by law.
   Passed this 12th day of December, 2016.
                                              /s/
                                             Mayor
Attest:
/s/
Clerk of Council
**** ORDINANCE NO. 2018-137 ****
ADOPTING THE REVISION, CODIFICATION, RECODIFICATION, REARRANGEMENT AND
PUBLICATION OF THE ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS OF THE CITY OF MASON, IN BOOK
FORM, FOR THE CURRENT SUPPLEMENT
   WHEREAS, an updating of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Mason has
been completed; and
   WHEREAS, Charter Section 4.15 A. requires a vote of four members of Council
for the revision, codification, recodification, rearrangement or publication of
the ordinances and resolutions of the City of Mason, in book form; and
   WHEREAS, Charter Section 4.15 B. requires that Council shall cause notice of
a meeting for consideration of the revision, codification, recodification,
rearrangement, or publication of the ordinances and resolutions, in book form,
to be published. Said notice shall include the date, time and place of the
meeting of Council to consider the revision, codification, recodification,
rearrangement or publication of the ordinances and resolutions, in book form,
the full text of which need not be published; and
   WHEREAS, said notice shall be published one time in a newspaper, determined
by Council to be of circulation within the City of Mason, at least seven days
prior to the final approval by Council and shall state that a copy of the
revision, codification, recodification, rearrangement or publication of the
ordinances and resolutions of the City of Mason, in book form, is available for
public viewing in the office of the Clerk of Council.
   WHEREAS, Council chooses to follow the procedure outlined above in adopting
a supplement to the Codified Ordinances as authorized under Charter Section
4.15 C.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council of the City of Mason, Ohio,
seven members elected thereto concurring:
   Section 1.   That the revision, codification, recodification, rearrangement
or publication of the ordinances and resolutions of the City of Mason, Ohio, in
book form, for the 2018 Supplement is hereby adopted.
   Section 2.   That a copy of said 2018 Supplement is on file in the office of
the Clerk of Council.
   Section 3.   That this Ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest period allowed by law.
   Passed this 14th day of January, 2019.
                                              /s/
                                             Mayor
Attest:
/s/
Clerk of Council
CHARTER
Editor’s note:
   The Mason Charter was approved by the voters at the regular Municipal
election on November 4, 1969.
    Dates appearing in parentheses following section headings indicate that
those provisions were subsequently amended, added or repealed on the date
given.
Preamble
Article I: Name, Boundaries, and Form of Government
Section
1.01   Name and Boundaries
Section
1.02   Form of Government
Article II: Corporate Powers
Section
2.01   Powers Granted
Section
2.02   Manner of Exercise of Powers
Section
2.03   Construction
Article III: Council
Section
3.01   Number and Term
Section
3.02   Qualifications (11-4-1975; Amended 11-3-2020)
Section
3.02A   Term Limits (11-2-1993; Amended 8-7-2009 (approved 11-3-2009); Amended
11-8-2011)
Section
3.03   Organization of Council
Section
3.04   Mayor - Election, Term, Qualifications and Powers
Section
3.05   Vice Mayor
Section
3.06   Clerk of Council
Section
3.07   Powers of Council (Amended 11-2-2021)
Section
3.08   Council Meetings (3-19-1996)
Section
3.09   Special Council Meetings
Section
3.10   Salary of Elected Officials - Change During Term
Section
3.11   Vacancies in Council (11-6-1984)
Article IV: Legislative Procedure
Section
4.01   Action to be Taken by Ordinance or Resolution
Section
4.02   Introduction of Ordinances and Resolutions
Section
4.03   Style of Ordinances and Resolutions
Section
4.04   Subject of Ordinances and Resolutions
Section
4.05   Reading of Ordinances and Resolutions
Section
4.06   Vote Required for Passage of Ordinances and Resolutions
Section
4.07   Content of Emergency Ordinances and Resolutions
Section
4.08   Effective Date of Ordinances and Resolutions
Section
4.09   Authentication of Ordinances and Resolutions
Section
4.10   Recording of Ordinances and Resolutions
Section
4.11   Amendment of Ordinances and Resolutions
Section
4.12   Referral of Zoning Ordinances to Planning Commission (11-3-1987)
Section
4.13   Public Hearing on Zoning Ordinance or Resolution (11-3-1987; Amended 2-
8-2021 (approved 11-3-2020))
Section
4.14   Adoption of Technical Codes by Reference
Section
4.15   Codification of Ordinances and Resolutions (Amended 2-8-2021 (approved
11-3- 2020))
Section
4.16   Publication of Ordinances and Resolutions
Article V: Manager
Section
5.01   Appointment and Removal
Section
5.02   Qualifications
Section
5.03   Acting Manager
Section
5.04   Powers and Duties of the Manager (11-3-1987)
Article VI: Administrative Departments
Section
6.01   Creation of Departments
Section
6.02   Department of Law - Law Director (5-8-1973)
Section
6.03   Powers and Duties of the Law Director
Section
6.04   Department of Finance - Finance Director (11-5-1996)
Section
6.05   Powers and Duties of the Finance Director (11-5-1996)
Section
6.06   Department of Planning
Section
6.07   Department of Service
Section
6.08   Department of Safety (11-3-1987)
Section
6.09   Department of Inspection and Engineering
Section
6.10   Department of Parks and Recreation
Section
6.11   Department of Personnel (11-7-1978)
Section
6.12   Removal or Demotion of Department and Division Heads (Repealed 11-7-
1978)
Section
6.13   Heads of Other Departments and Divisions
Article VII: Boards and Commissions
Section
7.01   Planning Commission - Membership
Section
7.02   Planning Commission - Powers and Duties
Section
7.03   Zoning, Housing and Building Appeals Board - Membership
Section
7.04   Zoning, Housing and Building Appeals Board - Powers and Duties
Section
7.05   Park and Recreation Board - Membership
Section
7.06   Park and Recreation Board - Powers and Duties
Section
7.07   Personnel Review Board
Section
7.08   Civil Service - Classified and Unclassified (11-5-1996)
Section
7.08A   Removal of Unclassified Personnel (11-5-1996)
Section
7.09   Personnel Review Board - Powers and Duties
Section
7.10   Other Boards and Commissions
Section
7.11   Boards and Commissions - Organization (11-3-1987)
Section
7.12   Vacancy in Board or Commission
Section
7.13   Boards and Commissions - Eligibility Requirement (11-4-1975)
Article VIII: Nominations and Elections
Section
8.01   Nominations (11-6-1984; 11-6-2012)
Section
8.02   Regular Municipal Elections
Section
8.03   Special Elections
Section
8.04   Conduct of Elections
Article IX: Initiative and Referendum
Section
9.01   Initiative
Section
9.02   Referendum
Section
9.03   Referral of Ordinance or Resolution to the Electors by Council (Amended
2-8-2021 (approved 11-3-2020))
Article X: Finances, Taxation, and Debt
Section
10.01   General
Section
10.02   Limitation on Tax Rate
Section
10.03   Limitation of Debt
Section
10.04   Limitations on Income Tax (5-6-1986; Amended 8-13-2007)
Section
10.05   Funding of safety, fire and EMS services (11-6-2012)
Article XI: General Provisions
Section
11.01   Succession
Section
11.02   Effect of Charter on Existing Laws and Rights
Section
11.03   Amendments to Charter
Section
11.04   Removal of Elected Officials and Members of Boards and Commissions (5-
8-1973)
Section
11.05   Effect of Partial Invalidity
Section
11.06   Conflict of Interest
Section
11.07   Percentage of Dwellings Permitted as Apartments (5-8-1973)
Section
11.08   Density of Dwelling Units (11-6-1984; Amended 11-6-2018)
Article XII: Transitional Provisions
Section
12.01   Effective Date of Charter
Section
12.02   Continuance of Present Officials - Abolishment of Offices
Section
12.03   Continuance of Present Employees
Section
12.04   Continuation of Village Clerk
*** PREAMBLE ***
   We, the people of Mason, Ohio, desirous of securing for our Municipality and
for ourselves and our children the advantages of self-government conferred by
the Ohio Constitution, do hereby ordain and establish the following Charter:
*** ARTICLE I: NAME, BOUNDARIES, AND FORM OF GOVERNMENT ***
SECTION 1.01 NAME AND BOUNDARIES.
   The inhabitants of the Municipality of Mason, Ohio, within the corporate
limits as established at the time of the adoption of this Charter, or as
thereafter established in the manner provided by law, shall be and continue to
be a Municipal corporation under the name of “The Municipality of Mason.” The
corporation will hereinafter be referred to as “the Municipality.”
SECTION 1.02 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided in this Charter shall be known as the
“Council - Manager Plan.” The powers and functions of the Municipal government
shall be distributed among the Municipality, its citizens, and the various
officers, bodies, boards and commissions as provided in this Charter.
*** ARTICLE II: CORPORATE POWERS ***
SECTION 2.01 POWERS GRANTED.
   The Municipality shall have all the powers, general or special, governmental
or proprietary, that may now or hereafter lawfully be possessed or exercised by
Municipal corporations under the Constitution and laws of the State of Ohio.
SECTION 2.02 MANNER OF EXERCISE OF POWERS.
   All such powers shall be exercised in the manner prescribed in this Charter,
or if not prescribed herein, in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance
of the Council, and when not prescribed in this Charter or provided by
ordinance of Council, then such powers shall be exercised in the manner
provided by the general laws of the State of Ohio until the Council shall
provide a different manner of exercising such powers.
SECTION 2.03 CONSTRUCTION.
   The powers of the Municipality under this Charter shall be construed
liberally in favor of the Municipality, and the specific mention of particular
powers in the Charter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general
power stated in this Article.
*** ARTICLE III: COUNCIL ***
SECTION 3.01 NUMBER AND TERM.
   The legislative powers of the Municipality, except as otherwise provided by
this Charter and by the Constitution of the State of Ohio, shall be vested in a
Council of seven members. All of such members shall be elected from the
Municipality at large. All members of Council shall be elected for overlapping
terms of four years, except that the membership of the first Council under this
Charter shall be determined in the following manner:
   A.   The two persons holding the offices of member of legislative authority
and the person holding the office of mayor under the general statutory form of
government whose terms would expire December 31, 1971 if this Charter had not
been adopted shall be members of Council under this Charter with all the
powers, duties and functions prescribed by this Charter until November 30, 1971
at which time their tenure in office shall expire and terminate.
   B.   The four persons who are elected as members of the legislative
authority under the general statutory form of government at the election to be
held in November, 1969 shall be members of Council under this Charter with all
the powers, duties and functions prescribed by this Charter until November 30,
1973 at which time their tenure in office shall expire and terminate.
   At the November election to be held in 1971, and each four years thereafter,
three members of the Council shall be elected. At the November election to be
held in 1973, and each four years thereafter, four members of the Council shall
be elected.
   Members of Council shall take office December 1 of the same year of their
election and shall serve until the expiration of their term of office and until
their successors are elected and qualified. If for any reason a member of
Council shall fail to qualify for office within forty-five days after December
1, of the same year of his election, a vacancy shall be deemed to exist and
such vacancy shall be filled in the manner provided in Section
3.11 of this Charter.
SECTION 3.02 QUALIFICATIONS.
   All members of Council shall have been qualified electors of the
Municipality for such period of time as may be required, from time to time, by
the laws of the Ohio Revised Code immediately preceding their election, and
shall continue to be qualified electors of the Municipality during their
respective terms of office. No member of Council shall hold any other public
office except the offices of notary public, member of the National Guard, or
member of the regular or reserve armed forces of the United States, unless
otherwise provided for or permitted by this Charter.
(Amended November 4, 1975; Amended November 3, 2020)
   Any member of Council who shall cease to possess or who violates any of the
qualifications of office herein provided; who is finally convicted of a felony
or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or who fails to attend three
consecutive regular meetings of the Council, unless such absence is excused by
a majority vote of the members present at such meetings or a subsequent meeting
of the Council, shall be subject to forfeiture of his office in the manner
provided by Section
11.04 of this Charter. A member of Council shall not vote upon the question of
his removal or whether his absence from a regular meeting shall be excused.
Failure to maintain such qualifications shall not render void or ineffective
any action of the Council in which such member participated.
SECTION 3.02A TERM LIMITS.
   No person shall hold the office of member of Council for a period longer
than two consecutive four year terms of the Council unless a period of at least
two years has intervened without such person serving on the Council. The
provisions of this amendment shall apply commencing January 1, 2012.
   In determining the eligibility of an individual to hold the office of member
of Council in accordance with this article, time spent in the office of member
of Council in fulfillment of a term to which another person was first elected
shall not be considered.
   Each provision of this amendment shall be deemed severable from the others,
and a finding that a provision is invalid shall not affect the other
provisions.
(Added: November 2, 1993; Amended 8-7-2009 (approved 11-3-2009); Amended 11-8-
2011)
SECTION 3.03 ORGANIZATION OF COUNCIL.
   On the first day of December in 1969 and each odd numbered year thereafter
the Council shall meet in the Council chamber for the purpose of organization.
The Council shall adopt its own rules, regulations and bylaws, but such rules,
regulations and bylaws shall not be in conflict with this Charter.
SECTION 3.04 MAYOR - ELECTION, TERM, QUALIFICATIONS AND POWERS.
   At the first meeting of the Council in December of 1969 and each odd
numbered year thereafter, the Council shall elect a person from among its
membership to the office of Mayor by the affirmative vote of not less than four
of its members to serve until a successor is elected to the office of Mayor by
the Council.
   The Mayor shall be the presiding officer of the Council, but in no event
shall the Mayor, in his dual capacity as Council member and presiding officer
of Council, cast more than one vote on any matter before the Council. In
addition to the duties as the presiding officer of the Council, the Mayor shall
act as the ceremonial head of the Municipality, administer oaths, exercise all
the judicial powers which are conferred upon mayors by the laws of Ohio, and
perform such other powers and duties as are elsewhere provided in this Charter
or provided by the Council. The Mayor shall not have a veto power over matters
considered by the Council, nor shall the Mayor interfere with the powers and
duties of the Manager in the supervision and conduct of the affairs of the
administrative departments and divisions of the Municipality. If the person
holding the office of Mayor shall cease to be a member of the Council, the
office of Mayor shall be vacant.
SECTION 3.05 VICE MAYOR.
   At the first meeting of the Council in December of 1969 and each odd
numbered year thereafter, the Council shall elect from its own membership, by
an affirmative vote of at least four of its members, a Vice Mayor, who shall
serve until a successor is elected from the Council as provided hereinabove.
The Vice Mayor shall act as the presiding officer of the Council in the absence
or disability of the Mayor and shall exercise all the powers and duties granted
the Mayor by this Charter during the absence or disability of the Mayor. While
presiding over special or regular meetings of the Council the Vice Mayor, may
vote upon all matters coming before the Council, but in no event shall the Vice
Mayor, in his dual capacity as Council member and presiding officer of Council
cast more than one vote on any action. In the event that the office of Mayor
shall become vacant the Vice Mayor shall become Mayor for the unexpired term,
and the Council shall elect a successor from among the membership of the
Council to the office of Vice Mayor for that unexpired term and if a vacancy
results on the Council, it shall be filled in the manner provided in Section
3.11 of this Charter; provided that the person holding the office of Vice Mayor
may decline to become Mayor and retain his office as Vice Mayor, in which event
the Council shall elect from its membership, by an affirmative vote of not less
than four of its members, a person to fill the unexpired term of the Mayor, and
if a vacancy results on the Council, it shall be filled in the manner provided
in Section
3.11 of this Charter.
SECTION 3.06 CLERK OF COUNCIL.
   The Clerk of Council shall be appointed by the Council and shall serve at
its pleasure. The Clerk of Council shall keep an accurate and complete journal
of the proceedings of Council and perform such other duties as this Charter or
the Council may require. The Clerk of Council may be a person having employment
or appointment with the Municipality. The Council may employ such other
employees as it deems necessary for the proper discharge of its duties.
SECTION 3.07 POWERS OF COUNCIL.
   All legislative power of the Municipality shall be vested in the Council,
except as otherwise provided by this Charter and the Constitution of the State
of Ohio. Without limitation of the foregoing, the Council shall have and
possess the following powers:
   A.   The power to levy taxes and incur debts subject to the limitations
imposed thereon by this Charter.
   B.   The power to adopt and to provide for the enforcement of local police,
sanitary and other similar regulations as are not in conflict with general
laws.
   C.   The power to provide for the exercise of all powers of local self
government granted to the Municipality by the Constitution of the State of Ohio
in a manner not inconsistent with this Charter or the Constitution of the State
of Ohio.
   D.   The power to establish the number of employees in the various offices,
departments, divisions, bureaus, boards and commissions of the Municipality and
to establish the rates, ranges and methods of their compensation, their hours
of work, and to provide such fringe benefits as deemed proper by the Council.
The Council may, by an affirmative vote of not less than four of its members,
delegate any of its powers under this sub-section to the Manager.
   E.   The power to require such bonds as in the opinion of the Council are
necessary for the faithful discharge of the duties of the officers and
employees of the Municipality. The premium for said bonds shall be paid by the
Municipality.
   F.   The power to create other offices, departments, divisions, bureaus,
boards, and commissions; and the power to combine, change and abolish any
office, department, division, bureau, board or commission established by
Council. The power hereinabove expressed in this subsection shall be exercised
by ordinance and upon the concurrence of at least five members of Council. The
Council shall not abolish the offices of Manager, Mayor, Vice Mayor, Clerk of
Council, Council members, Finance Director and Law Director. The Manager may
hold such other offices and positions with the Municipality as provided by this
Charter or as the Council may authorize by a vote of at least four of its
members.
   G.   The Council shall have the power: to adopt and provide for the
enforcement of zoning classifications, districts, uses and regulations by
ordinance; to adopt and provide for the enforcement of ordinances regulating
the subdivision and platting of land within the Municipality; to regulate the
subdivision and platting of land outside of the boundaries of the Municipality
as provided by general law; to adopt and provide for the enforcement of
ordinances requiring actual construction or assurance of construction of
streets, utility lines and facilities, sidewalks, curbs and gutters and other
improvements or facilities as a condition precedent to the approval of a plat
of a subdivision; to adopt and provide for the enforcement of ordinances
regulating the construction, reconstruction, alteration, enlargement, repair or
demolition of buildings and other structures, as defined by ordinance, within
the Municipality; to adopt and to provide for the enforcement of housing codes
or ordinances, regulating the use and occupancy of any building or structure,
as defined by said codes or ordinances, within the Municipality.
   H.   The Council shall have the power to establish, by ordinances, the rates
of charges made of consumers of all municipal utilities and services.
   I.   The Council may provide, without competitive bidding, for an annual or
special independent audit of any or all municipal funds. Such audit may be in
addition to an audit by representatives of the State Auditor or other state
official or agency as may be determined to be required under the Constitution
of the State of Ohio.
   J.   The Council, in addition to all other rights and powers granted to it
under the general law, may by ordinance grant permission to any person, firm or
corporation to construct and operate a public utility on, across, under or
above any public street or ground within the Municipality. It may prescribe in
the ordinance the kind and quality of service or product to be furnished, the
rate or rates to be charged therefor, and any other terms conducive to the
public interest; provided that such grant of permission shall not extend beyond
twenty-five years, however such grant may be amended or renewed in the manner
and subject to the provisions established by this Charter for original grants.
No consent of the owners of property abutting on any public street or ground
shall be necessary to the effectiveness of any such grant, amendment or
renewal. All such grants, amendments or renewals shall be made subject to the
continuing right of the Council to provide reasonable regulations for adequacy
of service and maintenance and the operation of such utilities with reference
to such streets and public grounds, including the right to require such
reconstruction, relocation or discontinuance of appliances, plant or equipment
used in such street or public grounds as shall, in the opinion of Council, be
necessary in the public interest.
   K.   The power to acquire title to or interests in real property shall be
vested in the Council, whether such property is acquired by: the exercise of
the power of eminent domain, purchase, gift, lease, devise, bequest, in trust,
or otherwise.
      The power to sell or otherwise convey, lease or grant interests in real
property shall be vested in the Council. Such sale, conveyance, lease or grant
shall be in the manner as provided by the ordinance authorizing the sale,
conveyance, lease, or grant. Title to all real property shall be taken in the
name of the Municipality.
      To ensure transparency and prevent conflicts of interest, Council members
and all relevant City staff shall certify in writing disclosures of actual and
potential conflicts of interest involving any real estate transactions with the
City prior to Council vote on said transactions. This requirement does not
apply to the acquisition by appropriation of property pursuant to Ohio Revised
Code Chapter 163 or when real property is acquired or obtained by the City for
a public easement, dedication, donation, bequest, forfeiture, or right of entry
unless otherwise required by Ohio law.
   L.   To exercise all other powers granted to the Council by this Charter and
by the Constitution and laws of the State of Ohio.
(Amended November 2, 2021)
SECTION 3.08 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   No less than one (1) regular meeting of the Council shall be held each
month. Four (4) members of the Council shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business at any meeting of the Council but a lesser number may
adjourn the meeting from time to time and compel, by a majority vote of the
members present, the attendance of absent members in such manner and under such
penalties as may be prescribed by ordinance. The Clerk of Council shall keep a
record of the Council’s proceedings in a journal or other record as determined
by Council in which the vote on any ordinance, resolution or other measure
shall be recorded. All meetings of the Council shall be open to the public,
except, that the Council may by a majority vote of the members present enter
into an executive session only for those purposes permitted by the general laws
of the State of Ohio. Each journal and other records of the Council shall be
open to the public at all reasonable times. Regular meetings shall be held at
such times and places as shall be determined by Council.
(Amended 3-19-1996)
SECTION 3.09 SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Council may be called as provided by ordinance. In
the absence of any such provision, special meetings may be called by a vote of
Council taken at any regular or special meeting thereof or may be called by the
Mayor, or any three members of the Council. The Clerk of Council or in his
absence, incapacity or refusal to act, the Mayor shall cause notice in writing
of each special meeting to be served personally or to be left at the usual
place of residence of each member of the Council not less than twelve hours
preceding the time for such special meeting. In the event that a special
meeting is called by a vote of Council taken at a regular or special meeting
from which any member of Council is absent, written notice of such special
meeting need be given only to each absentee in the manner hereinbefore
described. Service of notice of any special meeting shall be deemed
conclusively to have been waived by any member of Council who shall be present
at such special meeting. The matters to be considered at a special meeting
shall be stated in the notice required hereinabove, and no other matters may be
considered unless this requirement is waived by a vote of not less than five
members of the Council.
SECTION 3.10 SALARY OF ELECTED OFFICIALS - CHANGE DURING TERM.
   The salary of members of Council shall be five hundred dollars per year,
except that the salary of the Mayor shall be seven hundred fifty dollars per
year, provided the Council may change the salaries of members of Council and
the Mayor by ordinance adopted by a vote of not less than five members of the
Council. Any ordinance changing the salary of members of Council or the Mayor
shall be adopted at least ninety days prior to the next ensuing election at
which members of the Council are to be elected, and shall be effective on the
first day of December following such election. The compensation of all other
officers and employees of the Municipality may be increased or decreased at any
time by ordinance.
SECTION 3.11 VACANCIES IN COUNCIL.
   A vacancy shall be deemed to occur in the Council upon: the presentation of
a written resignation to the Clerk of Council, which resignation shall be
effective immediately unless a later time is specified therein; the death of a
Councilman; or the determination by the Council that a member of Council ceases
to possess or has violated any of the qualifications of the office of Council
member, and the removal of such Councilman as provided in Section
11.04 of this Charter. Any vacancy in the Council shall be initially filled by
a vote of not less than four members of the Council. If the vacancy is not
filled within thirty days after it shall have occurred, the power of Council to
fill the vacancy shall lapse and the Mayor shall fill it by appointment
immediately following the expiration of said thirty days. Any appointee under
this section shall qualify under the provisions of this Charter and shall hold
office and serve as a member of Council until whichever of the following occurs
first, at which time the appointee’s term in office shall expire and terminate:
   A.   November 30, following the next regular Municipal election after the
vacancy in Council to which he was appointed is deemed to occur under this
Charter, provided that if the vacancy occurs within ninety days of the next
regular Municipal election this subsection shall not apply.
   B.   The expiration of his predecessor’s term under this Charter as if the
vacancy to which the appointee’s appointment was made had not occurred.
   If an appointee’s term in office will terminate in accordance with
subsection A. of this section, the balance of his predecessor’s term shall be
filled by election at the next regular Municipal election after the vacancy has
occurred. Such elected Councilman shall take office on December 1, of the same
year of his election and shall serve for a term of two years and until his
successor is elected and qualified.
(Amended November 6, 1984)
*** ARTICLE IV: LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURE ***
SECTION 4.01 ACTION TO BE TAKEN BY ORDINANCE OR RESOLUTION.
   Action of Council shall be by ordinance, resolution, or motion. Every action
of a general and permanent nature, or granting a franchise; or levying a tax;
or appropriating money; or contracting an indebtedness, to be evidenced by the
issuance of bonds or notes; or for the purchase, lease or transfer of public
property; or establishing an offense and fixing the penalty therefor shall be
taken by ordinance or resolution in the manner hereinafter provided. All other
action may be by motion.
SECTION 4.02 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Any member of Council may, at a regular or special meeting, introduce any
ordinance or resolution.
SECTION 4.03 STYLE OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Each ordinance shall contain an enacting clause as follows: “Be It Ordained
By The Council Of The Municipality of Mason, State of Ohio,:” and each
resolution shall contain an enacting clause as follows: “Be It Resolved by the
Council of the Municipality of Mason, State of Ohio.”
SECTION 4.04 SUBJECT OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Each ordinance or resolution shall contain only one subject which shall be
expressed in its title, provided however, that appropriation ordinances may
contain the various subjects, accounts, and amounts for which monies are
appropriated, and that ordinances and resolutions which are codified or
recodified are not subject to the limitation of containing one subject.
SECTION 4.05 READING OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Each ordinance or resolution shall be read fully and distinctly on two
separate days with the second reading of any such ordinance or resolution being
at least six days after the first reading, provided that:
   A.   The Council may, by a vote of not less than five of its members,
dispense with the requirement that an ordinance or resolution shall be read on
two separate days, and authorize the adoption of an ordinance or resolution
upon its first reading.
   B.   The Council may, by a vote of not less than five of its members,
dispense with the requirement that an ordinance or resolution shall receive its
second reading at least six days after the first reading and authorize its
second reading at any earlier time.
   C.   The Council may, by a vote of not less than five of its members,
dispense with the requirement that an ordinance or resolution shall be read
fully and distinctly for its first or second reading or for both its first and
second reading, and authorize it to be read by title only for its first or
second or both its first and second reading.
   D.   Motions to dispense with any requirements of this section as authorized
by paragraphs A., B., and C. hereof may be separately stated, in which case a
separate vote shall be taken on each motion, or may be stated in any
combination thereof, in which case only one vote shall be taken.
   E.   Unless approved by a vote of not less than six members of Council,
motions authorized by paragraphs A., B., and C. hereof and the provisions of
said paragraphs shall not apply to ordinances or resolutions that pertain to
zoning classifications, districts or regulations, regulations governing the
platting and subdivision of land, the levying of a tax, the incurring of a debt
to be evidenced by bonds or notes, or the changing of salaries of members of
Council or the Mayor.
SECTION 4.06 VOTE REQUIRED FOR PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   The vote on the question of passage of each ordinance, resolution, and
motion shall be taken by yeas and nays and entered on the Journal, and no
ordinance, resolution, or motion shall be passed without concurrence of at
least four members of the Council, except that each emergency ordinance or
resolution shall require the affirmative vote of at least five members of the
Council for its enactment; provided, however, that if such emergency ordinance
or resolution shall fail to receive the required five affirmative votes, but
receives the necessary majority for passage as a non-emergency ordinance or
resolution, it shall be considered passed as a non-emergency ordinance or
resolution and shall become effective as hereinafter provided by this Charter.
A majority of the members present at any regular or special Council meeting may
compel the attendance of absent members as provided in Section
3.08 of this Charter.
SECTION 4.07 CONTENT OF EMERGENCY ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Each emergency ordinance or resolution shall determine that said ordinance
or resolution is necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
health, safety, or welfare, and shall contain a statement of the necessity for
such emergency. No ordinance or resolution pertaining to the following matters
may be adopted as an emergency measure: zoning classifications, districts or
regulations; regulations governing the platting and subdivision of land; the
levying of a tax or the incurring of a debt to be evidenced by bonds or notes,
unless such tax or debt shall be necessary to provide or replace municipal
facilities, equipment or buildings and the need for such facilities, equipment
or buildings arises out of a public exigency; or the changing of salaries of
members of Council or the Mayor.
SECTION 4.08 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Each ordinance or resolution providing for the appropriation of money, an
annual tax levy for current expenses, improvements petitioned for by the owners
of the requisite majority of the front footage or of the area of the property
benefited and to be especially assessed therefor, submission of any question to
the electorate or the determination to proceed with an election, providing for
the approval of a revision, codification, recodification, rearrangement of
ordinances and resolutions, or publication thereof in book form, and any
emergency ordinance or resolution shall take effect, unless a later time be
specified therein, immediately upon its passage. No other ordinance or
resolution shall go into effect until thirty days following its passage by the
Council.
SECTION 4.09 AUTHENTICATION OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Each ordinance or resolution shall be authenticated by the signature of the
Mayor and the Clerk of Council; however, the failure or refusal of such
officers to sign such ordinances or resolutions shall not invalidate an
otherwise properly enacted ordinance or resolution.
SECTION 4.10 RECORDING OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Each ordinance or resolution shall be recorded in a book, or other record
prescribed by the Council, established and maintained for that purpose. The
Clerk of Council or a duly authorized deputy to said Clerk, shall, upon the
request of any person and upon the payment of a fee, as established by the
Council, certify true copies of any ordinance or resolution.
SECTION 4.11 AMENDMENT OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   No ordinance or resolution or any section thereof, shall be revised or
amended unless the new ordinance or resolution contains the entire ordinance,
resolution or section or subsection as revised or amended, and the ordinance,
resolution or section or sub-section so amended shall be repealed. This
requirement shall not prevent the amendment of an ordinance or resolution by
the addition of a new section, sections, sub-section or sub-sections and in
such case the full text of the former ordinance or resolution need not be set
forth.
   Except in the case of a codification or recodification of ordinances and
resolutions, a separate vote shall be taken on each ordinance or resolution
proposed to be amended.
   Ordinances and resolutions that have been introduced and have received their
first reading, or their first and second reading, but have not been voted on as
to passage, may be amended or revised upon approval by a vote of at least four
members of the Council, and such amended or revised ordinance or resolution
need not receive further readings or be re-read.
SECTION 4.12 REFERRAL OF ZONING ORDINANCES TO PLANNING COMMISSION.
   Each ordinance or resolution establishing, amending, revising, changing or
repealing zoning classifications, districts, uses, or regulations shall be
referred to the Planning Commission. Within twenty-five days of such referral
the Planning Commission shall cause such ordinance or resolution to be returned
to the Clerk of Council together with the written recommendations of the
majority of the members of such commission unless said time is extended by
Council.
   No such ordinance or resolution which violates, differs from, or departs
from the written recommendation of the Planning Commission shall take effect
unless passed and approved by a vote of not less than four members of the
Council.
(Amended November 3, 1987)
SECTION 4.13 PUBLIC HEARING ON ZONING ORDINANCE OR RESOLUTION.
   The Mayor or other presiding officer of the Council shall set a date for a
public hearing on each ordinance or resolution establishing, amending,
revising, changing or repealing zoning classifications, districts, uses, or
regulations, which hearing shall be after the twenty-five day period provided
in Section
4.12 within which the Planning Commission is required to return its written
recommendations to the Clerk of Council. The Clerk of Council shall cause a
notice of such public hearing to be published one time in a newspaper
determined by the Council to be of circulation within the Municipality or cause
such notice to be published on the City website at least ten days prior to the
date of such public hearing, and when such amendment, revision, change, or
repeal involves ten or less parcels of land, as listed on the tax duplicate,
written notice of the hearing shall be mailed by the Clerk of Council, by
certified mail with return receipt, at least ten days before the date of the
public hearing to the owners of property within and contiguous to and directly
across the street from such parcel or parcels to the addresses of such owners
appearing on the County Auditor’s current tax list or the Treasurer’s mailing
list and to such other lists as may be required by the Council. The failure of
delivery of such mail notice and the failure to publish, or error or omission
in said publication, shall not invalidate any such ordinance or resolution.
(Amended November 3, 1987; Amended February 8, 2021 (approved November 3,
2020))
SECTION 4.14 ADOPTION OF TECHNICAL CODES BY REFERENCE.
   Council may, by ordinance or resolution, adopt standard ordinances and codes
prepared by the State or any department, board or other agency or political
subdivision of the State, or any standard or model ordinance or code prepared
and promulgated by a public or private organization, including but not limited
to codes and regulations pertaining to fire, fire hazards, fire prevention,
plumbing code, electrical code, building code, refrigeration machinery code,
piping code, boiler code, heating code, air conditioning code, housing code,
and such other matters as the Council may determine to be appropriate for
adoption by reference, by incorporation by reference. The ordinance adopting
any such standard ordinance or code shall make reference to the date and source
of such standard ordinance or code without reproducing the same at length in
the ordinance. In such cases, publication of the standard ordinance or code
shall not be required, but at least three copies of such code shall be kept at
all times in the office of the Clerk of Council and available for reference by
interested persons and copies of such standard ordinance and code shall be
available for sale by said Clerk. If the standard ordinance or code, after its
adoption by reference by the Council, is amended, the Council may adopt the
amendment or change by incorporation by reference in an ordinance under the
same procedure as is established herein for the adoption of the original
standard ordinance or code without the necessity of setting forth in full in
the ordinance the provisions either of the amendment or change to the original
ordinance or the standard ordinance or code.
SECTION 4.15 CODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   A.   By a vote of not less than four of the members of Council, the Council
may cause the ordinances and resolutions of the Municipality to be revised,
codified, recodified, rearranged, or published in book form. Such revisions,
codification, recodification, rearrangement or publication of ordinances and
resolutions in book form shall be immediately effective upon approval of not
less than four members of the Council and may contain new matter therein.
   B.   The Clerk of Council shall cause a notice of such proposed revision,
codification, recodification, rearrangement or publication of ordinances and
resolutions in book form to be published one time in a newspaper determined by
the Council to be of circulation within the Municipality or cause such notice
to be published on the City website at least seven days prior to the final
approval thereof by the Council. The notice that is to be published shall state
the date, time and place of the meeting. The full text of the revision,
codification, recodification, rearrangement or publication of ordinances and
resolutions in book form need not be published.
   C.   A current service supplementing such revision, codification,
recodification, rearrangement or publication of ordinances and resolutions in
book form shall be maintained in the manner prescribed by the Council.
(Amended February 8, 2021 (approved November 3, 2020))
SECTION 4.16 PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   The Clerk of Council shall cause each ordinance and resolution adopted to be
published in one of the following manners to be determined by the Council.
   A.   By posting a copy of the ordinance or resolution in one public place in
the Municipality as determined by the Council, for a period of fifteen days, or
   B.   By publishing the title of the ordinance or resolution once in a
newspaper, circular or other publication determined by Council to be of
circulation within the Municipality, or
   C.   By publishing a concise summary of the provisions of the ordinance or
resolution once in a newspaper, circular or other publication determined by
Council to be of circulation within the Municipality.
   Failure to post or publish ordinances or resolutions as required by this
section, or an omission, delay, or error in such posting or publication, or
failure to maintain posting of an adopted ordinance or resolution for a period
of fifteen days as required by paragraph A. of this section, shall not
invalidate any ordinance or resolution, nor shall such failure give rise to a
defense to any action or prosecution brought under any ordinance or resolution,
and in such events the Clerk of Council may authorize posting or publication at
a later date, but such later posting or publication shall not be mandatory or
necessary to the validity of any ordinance or resolution or action or
prosecution thereunder.
   In addition to the publication required above after an ordinance or
resolution has been adopted, the Council may direct the Clerk of Council to
post or publish notices of pending ordinances and resolutions prior to their
adoption, but such prior posting or publication of such notices shall not be
mandatory or necessary to the validity of any ordinance or resolution or action
or prosecution thereunder.
   The Clerk of Council shall affix the following certification to the copy of
the ordinance or resolution maintained in the official journal or record
required by Section
4.10 of this Charter, and such certification shall be prima-facie evidence of
such publication:
   Certificate of Publication
   I, the undersigned Clerk of Council of the Municipality of Mason, Ohio
hereby certify that the foregoing (ordinance or resolution) was published as
required by Section
4.16 of the Charter of said Municipality by: (insert whichever of the following
is appropriate: 1. “posting a copy thereof at (here insert location of the
place where a copy was posted)” or 2. “publication of the title thereof once in
(here insert the name of the newspaper, circular, or other publication) on the
_____________ day of _________________ 20____ determined to be of circulation
in Mason”, or 3. “publication of a concise summary of the provisions thereof
once in (here insert the name of the newspaper, circular, or other publication)
on the _________________ day of __________________ 20_____ determined to be of
circulation in Mason.”)
                   (Signature )
                  Clerk of Council
               Municipality of Mason, Ohio
   The failure of the Clerk of Council to affix the “Certificate of
Publication” provided hereinabove shall not affect the validity of an ordinance
or resolution, or any action or prosecution thereunder.
*** ARTICLE V: MANAGER ***
SECTION 5.01 APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL.
   The Manager shall be appointed by a vote of at least five members of the
Council. The Manager shall serve at the pleasure of the Council and may be
removed from office, without cause, by a vote of at least five members of the
Council. The Council shall fix the compensation of the Manager.
SECTION 5.02 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of his executive and
administrative qualifications, and need not be a resident of the Municipality
at the time of his appointment, but shall become a resident of the Municipality
within six months after his appointment unless residence outside the
Municipality is approved by a vote of at least five members of the Council.
SECTION 5.03 ACTING MANAGER.
   The Manager may designate, by letter filed with the Clerk of Council, any
qualified administrative officer of the Municipality to perform his powers,
duties and functions during his temporary absence from the Municipality or
during his disability. Such designation shall not be effective until the
Council has approved it by a vote of at least four members of the Council, and
the Council may revoke such designation by a vote of at least four members
thereto. If such designation has not been made and the Manager is absent from
the Municipality or unable to perform his duties or to make such designation,
the Council may, by motion approved by at least four members thereof, appoint
any qualified administrative officer of the Municipality to perform the powers,
duties and functions of the Manager until he shall return to the Municipality,
the disability ceases, or such appointment is revoked by a vote of at least
four members of the Council. The Acting Manager so designated shall exercise
all powers, duties and functions of the Manager during the temporary absence
from the Municipality or disability of the Manager.
   In the event of a vacancy in the office of Manager, the Council shall
designate a person as Acting Manager, who shall exercise all powers, duties and
functions of the Manager until a Manager is appointed.
SECTION 5.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE MANAGER.
   The Manager shall be the chief executive, administrative, and law
enforcement officer of the Municipality. He shall be responsible to the Council
for the administration of all municipal affairs placed in his charge by or
under this Charter, the ordinances of the Municipality and State laws. He shall
have the following powers and duties:
   A.   He shall appoint and, when he deems it necessary, suspend or remove or
otherwise discipline all municipal employees and appointive administrative
officers, except as provided for by or under this Charter. He may authorize any
administrative officer who is subject to his direction and supervision to
exercise these powers with respect to subordinates in that officer’s
department, office or agency.
   B.   He shall direct and supervise the administration of all departments,
offices and agencies of the Municipality, except as otherwise provided by this
Charter.
   C.   He shall attend all Council meetings and shall have the right to take
part in discussion but may not vote.
   D.   He shall see that all laws, provisions of this Charter and ordinances
and resolutions of the Council, subject to enforcement by him or by officers
subject to his direction and supervision, are faithfully executed.
   E.   He shall prepare and submit the annual budget and capital program to
the Council.
   F.   He shall submit to Council and make available to the public a complete
report on the finances and administrative activities of the Municipality as of
the end of each fiscal year.
   G.   He shall make such other reports as the Council may require concerning
the operations of municipal departments, offices, boards, commissions and
agencies subject to his direction and supervision.
   H.   He shall keep the Council fully advised as to the financial condition
and future operating and capital needs of the Municipality and make such
recommendations to the Council concerning the affairs of the Municipality as he
deems desirable.
   I.   He shall require reports and information of subordinate officers and
employees of the Municipality as he deems necessary in the orderly operation of
the Municipality, or when requested to do so by the Council or any board or
commission of the Municipality.
   J.   He shall be the contracting officer of the Municipality and shall award
and execute contracts and agreements on behalf of the Municipality in the
manner and under the procedures required by this Charter provided that:
      1.   When the expenditure of funds for the purchase of supplies or
materials, or to provide labor for any work to be performed under a contract
exceeds the amount specified by an act of Council for which such purchases or
work may be accomplished without advertisement and competitive bidding, such
expenditure shall first be authorized and directed by ordinance passed by the
Council. The Manager may award a written contract to the lowest and best bidder
after advertisement on the same day of each week for not less than two nor more
than four consecutive weeks in a newspaper determined by the Council to be of
circulation within the Municipality.
      2.   Compensation of persons and employees; contracts with persons, firms
or corporations for services requiring specialized skill, knowledge, or
training; and expenditures required because of a real and present emergency
arising in connection with the purchase, lease, construction, maintenance,
operation or repair of municipal buildings, equipment and facilities, and
municipal services, when authorized by ordinance adopted by a vote of at least
five members of the Council, need not be advertised and notices need not be
published as provided hereinabove.
      3.   Modifications and changes in excess of the amount as designated by
Council made to contracts shall first be authorized by ordinance.
      4.   The Manager may designate an administrative officer or employee of
the Municipality to act as purchasing agent to award and execute contracts,
orders, or agreements on behalf of the Municipality, when such contracts,
orders or agreements do not authorize an expenditure of money in excess of the
amount as designated by Council.
      5.   The Manager or any other person designated by him as purchasing
agent shall not willfully cause or allow any contract or order to be split or
divided into separate orders or contracts in order to avoid the requirements of
subsection 4. above, or the requirements of competitive bidding as provided by
this Charter.
   K.   He shall execute on behalf of the Municipality all contracts and
agreements, except as otherwise hereinabove provided by paragraph J. of this
section regarding the designation of a purchasing agent, conveyances, evidences
of indebtedness and other instruments to which the Municipality is a party.
   L.   He shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as are
conferred or required by this Charter, by any ordinance or resolution of the
Council, or by the laws of the State of Ohio.
(Subsections J.1., 3. and 4. amended November 3, 1987)
*** ARTICLE VI: ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS ***
SECTION 6.01 CREATION OF DEPARTMENTS.
   For the purpose of carrying on the administrative functions of the
Municipality, the following departments are hereby established: Department of
Law, Department of Finance, Department of Planning, Department of Service,
Department of Inspection and Engineering, Department of Parks and Recreation,
Department of Personnel, and Department of Safety. The work of the departments
of the Municipality shall be distributed among such divisions and bureaus as
provided in this Charter and as provided by ordinance. The Council may create
new departments, divisions, and bureaus and combine, change and abolish any
department, division, or bureau in the manner and subject to the limitations as
provided in Section
3.07 F. of this Charter. Subject to the provisions of this Charter, the Council
shall provide by ordinance for the organization of the departments and
divisions of the Municipality, and define the powers and functions of each
organizational unit.
SECTION 6.02 DEPARTMENT OF LAW - LAW DIRECTOR.
   The Law Director shall be the head of the Department of Law. He shall be
appointed by the Council, by ordinance adopted by the affirmative vote of at
least five members of the Council, upon such terms as the ordinance provides,
he shall serve at the pleasure of the Council and may be removed by a vote of
at least five members of the Council. The Director of Law shall be admitted to
the practice of law in the State of Ohio.
(Amended May 8, 1973)
SECTION 6.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE LAW DIRECTOR.
   The Law Director shall be the legal adviser, attorney, and counsel for the
Municipality and for all offices, departments, divisions, bureaus, boards,
commissions and bodies of the Municipality in connection with Municipal
affairs; and subject to the direction of the Council, shall represent the
Municipality in all proceedings in Court or before any administrative board or
body. He shall perform such other duties consistent with his office, as may be
required by this Charter, by ordinance or resolution of the Council, or by the
laws of the State of Ohio. The Law Director shall be the prosecuting attorney
on behalf of the Municipality and shall prosecute cases brought before courts
of competent jurisdiction.
   The Council may provide for such assistants and special counsel to the Law
Director as shall be deemed advisable. All assistants shall be responsible to
the Law Director, and when authorized by him, may exercise all or any part of
the powers and duties granted to the Law Director under this section. Special
counsel may be selected by the Council or the Law Director, as determined by
the Council; and such special counsel may perform those powers and functions as
authorized by and in the manner provided by the Council.
SECTION 6.04 DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE - FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   The Finance Director shall be the head of the Department of Finance. Said
Finance Director shall be appointed by the City Manager. The Finance Director
shall be qualified by training or experience to discharge the duties as the
head of the Department of Finance in a capable manner.
   The City Manager may designate an officer or employee of the City, who,
during the absence or disability of, or during the vacancy in the office of
Finance Director, shall exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the
Finance Director under the title of Acting Finance Director.
(Amended November 5, 1996)
SECTION 6.05 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   The Finance Director shall be the fiscal officer of the Municipality. Said
Finance Director shall advise the Manager concerning the financial condition of
the Municipality. Said Director shall collect all money due and payable to the
Municipality and shall be the custodian of all public money of the Municipality
and shall disburse the same as may be required by law or ordinance. Said
Director shall render statements to and receive payments from the customers and
property owners of the Municipality, except for monies collected from certain
taxes where the laws of the State of Ohio require a County or State official to
administer and collect the tax. Said Director shall assist the Manager in
preparation and submission of appropriation measures, estimates, budgets and
other financial matters. Said Director shall perform all other duties now or
hereafter imposed on city auditors and treasurers under the laws of the State
of Ohio and shall perform such other duties, consistent with his office, as may
be required by this Charter, by ordinance or resolution of Council, or as
directed by the Manager.
   The Finance Director shall prepare annual financial and other reports
required by law and shall make periodic reports concerning appropriations,
encumbrances and expenditures of the departments, divisions, boards and
commissions as may be required by the Manager. Said Director shall submit to
the Council and the Manager, and make available to the public, a complete
report on the finances of the Municipality as of the end of each fiscal year.
(Amended November 5, 1996)
SECTION 6.06 DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING.
   The Manager shall serve as the head of the Department of Planning, unless
the Council shall create the separate position of Planning Director, in which
event the Planning Director shall be appointed by the Manager. The head of the
Department of Planning shall have those powers, duties and functions as
provided by the Council. The head of the Department of Planning shall report
and be responsible to the Manager; however, he shall meet with and provide such
assistance and information to the Planning Commission and the Zoning, Housing,
and Building Appeals Board as requested by said board or commission.
SECTION 6.07 DEPARTMENT OF SERVICE.
   The Manager shall serve as the head of the Department of Service, unless the
Council shall create the separate position of Service Director, in which event
the Service Director shall be appointed by the Manager. The Department of
Service shall have the supervision and control over all Municipal utilities,
streets, services, lands and buildings, except as otherwise provided in this
Charter, and the head of the Department of Service shall have those powers,
duties and functions as provided by the Council by ordinance.
SECTION 6.08 DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY.
   The Safety Director shall serve as the head of the Department of Safety,
provided that the City Manager shall serve as the Safety Director until the
Council shall create the separate position of Safety Director. The Department
of Safety shall have the supervision and control over the functions of police,
fire, and life squad protection, which functions may be provided by the
creation of separate or combined divisions or by contract with any other unit
of government or with private firms, persons, corporations or associations, as
determined by the Council by ordinance. The head of the Department of Safety
shall have those powers, duties and functions as provided by the Council by
ordinance. The Department of Safety may, upon authorization of the Council,
include an auxiliary police unit and voluntary or full-time fire personnel.
(Amended November 3, 1987)
SECTION 6.09 DEPARTMENT OF INSPECTION AND ENGINEERING.
   The Manager shall serve as the head of the Department of Inspection and
Engineering, unless the Council shall create the separate position of Director
of Inspection and Engineering, in which event the Director of Inspection and
Engineering shall be appointed by the Manager. The Department of Inspection and
Engineering shall have the supervision and control over all inspection and
engineering service of the City, including but not limited to the following:
building code inspections, housing code inspections, and the administration and
enforcement of all ordinances, rules and regulations pertaining to zoning and
the subdivision of land. The Director of Inspection and Engineering shall
report directly to and be responsible to the Manager; however, he shall meet
with and provide such assistance and information to the Planning Commission and
Zoning, Housing and Building Appeals Board as may be requested by said
commission and board. The inspection and engineering work may be performed
wholly or partially by employees or agents of the Municipality or by contracts
with such persons, firms, or corporations as may be deemed to be appropriate.
SECTION 6.10 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   The Manager shall serve as the head of the Department of Parks and
Recreation, unless the Council shall create the separate position of Director
of Parks and Recreation, in which event the Director of Parks and Recreation
shall be appointed by the Manager. The Department of Parks and Recreation shall
have the supervision and control over all park and recreation lands, equipment,
facilities and programs. The head of the Department of Parks and Recreation
shall have those powers, duties and functions as provided by the Council by
ordinance, and he shall be responsible and report directly to the Manager;
however, he shall meet with and provide such assistance and information to the
Park and Recreation Board as it may request.
SECTION 6.11 DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL.
   The Manager shall serve as the head of the Department of Personnel, unless
the Council shall create the separate position of Personnel Director, on which
event the Personnel Director shall be the head of the Department of Personnel
and shall be appointed by the Manager and confirmed by an affirmative vote of
at least four members of Council. The head of the Department of Personnel shall
have the control and supervision of all administrative records and matters
pertaining to the employees of the City except as otherwise provided in this
Charter.
   The head of the Department of Personnel shall promulgate rules and
regulations provided for the appointment and promotion of employees in the
classified service of the Municipality as defined in Section
7.08 of this Charter, accordingly to merit and fitness, to be ascertained, so
far as practicable by competitive examination. Such rules shall also include
provisions for the disciplinary, suspension, transfer and dismissal of
employees in the classified service of the City.
   The head of the Department of Personnel shall prepare for and provide to the
Personnel Review Board such tests of knowledge, skill, experience and aptitude
for the selection and promotion of employees of the classified service of the
City.
   The rules promulgated under this section shall be effective at and after
their approval of the Personnel Review Board. The tests of knowledge,
experience, skill and aptitude prepared by the Personnel Director shall be
approved by the Personnel Review Board prior to their administration.
   The head of the Department of Personnel shall have such other powers, duties
and functions as may be provided by the Council by ordinance.
(Amended November 7, 1978)
SECTION 6.12 REMOVAL OR DEMOTION OF DEPARTMENT AND DIVISION HEADS.
   This section was repealed by the voters on November 7, 1978. See Section
7.08A.
SECTION 6.13 HEADS OF OTHER DEPARTMENTS AND DIVISIONS.
   The heads of departments, divisions, and bureaus not enumerated in this
Charter, but created by the Council by ordinance shall be appointed by the
Manager; and the Manager may serve as the head of one or more of such
departments or divisions.
   One person may serve as the head of one or more departments or divisions,
except that the Law Director shall not serve or act as head of any other
department or division.
*** ARTICLE VII: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS ***
SECTION 7.01 PLANNING COMMISSION - MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created and established a Planning Commission which shall
consist of seven members as hereinafter provided. The Council shall appoint one
member of the Planning Commission from among the membership of Council, which
member shall serve for a two year term, provided that he shall not serve beyond
his tenure on the Council. The Mayor shall be a member of the Planning
Commission. In addition to the members hereinabove provided, there shall be
five citizen members of the Planning Commission who shall be appointed by the
Mayor, subject to confirmation by the Council by a vote of at least four
members of the Council. The five citizen members shall serve for terms of three
years; however, the first appointment of citizen members of the Commission
under this Charter shall be as follows: one of such members shall be appointed
for a one year term; two of such members shall be appointed for two year terms;
and two of such members shall be appointed for three year terms. Thereafter
each citizen member shall be appointed for a three year term and shall continue
in office until his successor is appointed and confirmed.
SECTION 7.02 PLANNING COMMISSION - POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning Commission shall conduct studies, surveys and prepare plans,
reports and maps relative to the overall planning of the growth, development,
redevelopment, rehabilitation, and renewal of the Municipality, and may make
such recommendations relative thereto to the Council as it feels are in the
best interest of the Municipality. The Planning Commission shall continuously
review and report to the Council its recommendations concerning the
Municipality’s capital improvement programs, subdivision, platting and zoning
ordinances and regulations. The Planning Commission shall cooperate with other
governmental or private planning agencies to secure the maximum benefit to the
Municipality of the work, studies, surveys and reports of such other planning
agencies. Other powers and duties of the Planning Commission shall include
those established by this Charter and by the Council by ordinance, but until
such ordinances shall be passed, it shall possess such other powers and duties
as are provided by the general laws of Ohio, to the extent that such general
laws do not conflict with the provisions of this Charter.
SECTION 7.03 ZONING, HOUSING AND BUILDING APPEALS BOARD - MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created and established the Zoning, Housing and Building
Appeals Board, which shall consist of five citizen members who shall hold no
other office or employment with the Municipality, and who shall be appointed by
the Mayor, subject to the confirmation by the Council by a vote of at least
four members of the Council. The members of the Board shall be appointed and
shall serve for terms of three years; however, the first appointment of members
of the Board under this Charter shall be as follows: one of such members shall
be appointed for a one year term; two of such members shall be appointed for
two year terms; and two of such members shall be appointed for three year
terms. Thereafter each member shall be appointed for a three year term and
shall continue in office until his successor is appointed and confirmed.
SECTION 7.04 ZONING, HOUSING AND BUILDING APPEALS BOARD - POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Zoning, Housing and Building Appeals Board shall have the powers to hear
and decide appeals for exceptions to and variances in, the application of
resolutions, ordinances, regulations, measures and orders of administrative
officials or agencies governing zoning, building, and housing in the
Municipality, as may be required to afford justice and avoid unreasonable
hardship, subject to such reasonable standards as shall be prescribed by
Council; and such Board shall have such other powers as may be granted to it by
Council.
SECTION 7.05 PARK AND RECREATION BOARD - MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created and established a Park and Recreation Board which
shall consist of seven members as hereinafter provided: one Board member shall
be a member of the Board of Education of the Mason Local School District or a
person appointed by such Board of Education; and one member shall be appointed
by a vote of at least four members of the Council from among the membership of
the Council. In addition to the members hereinabove provided, there shall be
five citizen members who shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to
confirmation by the Council by a vote of at least four members of the Council.
   The member appointed by the Board of Education and the member appointed by
the Council from among its membership shall each serve for two year terms,
provided that the member appointed from the membership of the Council shall not
serve beyond his tenure on the Council. The five citizen members shall serve
for terms of three years; however, the first appointment of citizen members of
the Board under this Charter shall be as follows: one of such members shall be
appointed for a one year term; two of such members shall be appointed for two
year terms; and two of such members shall be appointed for three year terms.
Thereafter, each citizen member shall be appointed for a three year term and
shall continue in office until his successor is appointed and confirmed. All
members of the Board shall be electors of the Municipality.
   If the Board of Education of the Mason Local School District shall fail to
appoint the member as hereinabove provided within sixty days after the
effective date of this section, or within sixty days after any vacancy shall
occur for which said Board of Education is to make the appointment, or if it is
determined by any Court that said Board of Education does not have the power
under the laws of the State of Ohio to make such appointment, then and in those
events the Council shall make the appointment of such member.
SECTION 7.06 PARK AND RECREATION BOARD - POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Park and Recreation Board shall act in an advisory capacity only, making
such recommendations and reports to the Manager, Council, Planning Commission,
Director of Parks and Recreation, and other officers, departments, divisions,
and boards and commissions as it deems advisable regarding the acquisition,
development, maintenance and operation of parks, playgrounds and recreational
facilities and programs of the Municipality. The Board may cooperate with
organized groups concerned with park and recreation programs and may stimulate
citizen interest in the care and preservation of parks and historical and
scenic sites. The Board may act as trustee for any property, asset, or funds
donated to the Municipality for park or recreation purposes, provided the donor
designates or provides for the designation of the Board or the Municipality as
such trustee. In such an event the Board shall have all those powers and duties
necessary to carry out the purposes of the trust.
SECTION 7.07 PERSONNEL REVIEW BOARD.
   There is hereby created and established a Personnel Review Board, which
shall consist of five members who shall hold no other office or employment with
the Municipality. The members of the Board shall be appointed by the Mayor,
subject to confirmation by the Council by a vote of at least four members of
the Council. The members of the Board shall serve for terms of three years;
however, the first appointment of members of the Board under this Charter shall
be as follows: one of such members shall be appointed for a one year term; two
of such members shall be appointed for two year terms; and two of such members
shall be appointed for three year terms. Thereafter, each member shall be
appointed for a three year term and shall continue in office until his
successor is appointed and confirmed.
SECTION 7.08 CIVIL SERVICE - CLASSIFIED AND UNCLASSIFIED.
   Appointments and promotions in the classified service of the City shall be
made according to merit, which will be ascertained, insofar as practicable, by
competitive examination. The classified service of the City shall include all
offices and positions of the City except the following, which shall constitute
unclassified offices and positions:
   A.   Members of Council,
   B.   The Clerk of Council,
   C.   The Mayor and Vice Mayor,
   D.   The Manager,
   E.   The Law Director, Assistant Law Directors, Prosecutors or special legal
counsel,
   F.   All heads of departments and heads of divisions within departments,
   G.   A position or office requiring and held by a person possessing
professional, technical or scientific skills, knowledge or experience who holds
such position by contract,
   H.   Members of boards and commissions established by this Charter or by
ordinance of Council,
   I.   Volunteer members of the Division of Fire, members of the auxiliary
police unit within the Division of Police, and part-time employees of the
Division of Police and Fire,
   J.   The secretary of each board and commission established by this Charter
or by ordinance, provided that if such secretary holds other employment within
the classified service of the City, this section shall not exempt such person
from the requirement of competitive examination to hold such other employment,
   K.   Unskilled laborers for whom no test can be devised, as determined by
the head of the Department of Personnel, and approved by the Personnel Board of
Review,
   L.   One personal secretary to the Manager, Mayor and each head of any
department created by this Charter or the Council; provided that it shall be
necessary for such positions to have been created by the Council, and
   M.   Any temporary or part-time office or position requiring the
qualifications of an expert, as determined by the Personnel Director and as
approved by the Personnel Board of Review.
   Employees of the City who have worked at least six months immediately
preceding the effective date of the civil service provisions of this Charter in
positions not exempted from the classified service shall 1) be included within
the classified service, 2) be continued in their then current positions, and 3)
have the benefit and protection of the civil service provisions of this Charter
with respect to such positions.
(Amended November 5, 1996)
SECTION 7.08A REMOVAL OF UNCLASSIFIED PERSONNEL.
   Persons in the unclassified service of the City other than members of
Council, the Mayor and Vice Mayor, members of boards and commissions, the City
Manager, Law Director, Assistant Law Director, Prosecutors or persons
possessing professional, technical or scientific skills, knowledge or
experience employed by Council by contract may be suspended, demoted or removed
from office or employment for incompetency, dishonesty, drunkenness,
discourteousness to the public, gross neglect of duty, insubordination, or
conduct contrary to the best interests of the City or any other reasonable or
just cause by:
   (1)   Summary action taken by the Manager subject to a hearing and review by
Council if such hearing and review is requested in writing by the officer or
employee within ten days of the Manager’s decision. After conducting the
hearing and review at which the employee shall have the opportunity to be heard
and present evidence on his/her behalf, the Council may affirm, modify or
reverse the decision of the Manager and in taking such action, may impose
lesser penalties than imposed by the Manager. Prior to any reduction,
suspension or removal for any of the above stated reasons or in any case where
allegations are made that may seriously damage the employee’s reputation and
which would be likely to place a stigma upon said employee in seeking future
employment, including allegations of fraud, theft, dishonesty in financial
affairs, untruthfulness, mental illness, racism, felonious conduct, moral
unfitness or any similar accusation, the Manager shall provide oral or written
notice of the charges or allegations, including an explanation of the evidence
against the employee and provide an opportunity for the employee to present
his/her side of the story.
   (2)   Resolution of Council after investigation of charges presented to
Council by any citizen, officer or employee. If Council determines after an
investigation that such charges are meritorious, it shall give the employee or
officer notice of the charge and the date for a hearing at which hearing the
employee or officer shall have the opportunity to answer the charges and
present evidence upon his/her behalf. After such hearing, Council shall make
its determination, by resolution, as to the charges presented and impose such
disciplinary measures as they may deem warranted.
(Amended November 5, 1996)
SECTION 7.09 PERSONNEL REVIEW BOARD - POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Personnel Review Board shall have the power to hear appeals from
administrative determinations made pursuant to the rules promulgated by the
head of the Department of Personnel under Section
6.11 of this Charter, as may be authorized by said rules, and may have such
other powers and duties as may from time to time be given to it by ordinance of
Council.
SECTION 7.10 OTHER BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   The Council may create such other boards and commissions as it determines
necessary and proper, subject to the limitations set forth in Section
3.07 F. of this Charter; and the composition, term of office of members and
their method of appointment, as well as the powers, duties and functions of
such other boards and commissions shall be as determined by Council.
SECTION 7.11 BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS - ORGANIZATION.
   At the first meeting of each new year of each of the Planning Commission,
Zoning, Housing and Building Appeals Board, Personnel Review Board, Park and
Recreation Board, and other boards and commissions created under this Charter
by the Council, the members of such boards and commissions shall elect a
chairman, vice chairman and a secretary by a majority vote of the members
appointed to such board or commission. The chairman, vice chairman, and
secretary of each board or commission shall serve at the pleasure of such board
or commission and until successors are elected by such board or commission. The
chairman and vice chairman of each such board or commission shall be a member
of such board or commission, but in no event shall the chairman or vice
chairman of any such board or commission, in his dual capacity as a member and
presiding officer, cast more than one vote on any action. The secretary of each
such board or commission may be elected from within or without the membership
of such board or commission, and may hold other office or employment with the
Municipality. The secretary of each such board or commission shall keep an
accurate record of the proceedings of such board or commission. The Council
shall, upon the request of any board or commission appropriate an adequate sum
of money to secure the services of a competent secretary. All records of
proceedings of boards and commissions shall be maintained at the Municipal
Building.
   A majority of the members of each of the boards and commissions hereinabove
referred to shall constitute a quorum for meetings of such board or commission;
and a majority vote of the members appointed to each such board or commission
shall be necessary to take any action and for the passage of motions by such
board or commission. Rules providing for the number and manner of calling
regular and special meetings, and to provide for the conduct and government of
meetings of each such board or commission, may be adopted by a majority vote of
the members of each such board or commission; however, such rules shall not
conflict with the provisions of this Charter or any ordinance passed by the
Council. The Planning Commission, Zoning, Housing and Building Appeals Board,
and the Park and Recreation Board shall meet at least once a month, unless such
board or commission shall determine at a previous meeting that meetings shall
not be held in any month or unless the Chairman of such board or commission
shall determine that a meeting shall not be held due to a lack of business to
be conducted. The Personnel Review Board shall meet at least once a year in the
month of January; upon notice of appeals as provided for under the rules
promulgated by the head of the Department of Personnel under Section
6.11 of this Charter; and at such other times as it shall determine to be
necessary or advisable. Other boards and commissions shall meet at such
frequency as they shall determine to be necessary or advisable.
   Members of all boards and commissions created under this Charter, except the
Park and Recreation Board, shall have been electors of the Municipality for at
least two continuous years immediately prior to their appointment, and shall
continue to be qualified electors of the Municipality during their respective
terms of office. All members of the Park and Recreation Board shall be electors
of the Municipality at the time of their appointment, and shall continue to be
qualified electors of the Municipality during their respective terms of office.
Members of all boards and commissions shall serve until their successors are
selected and qualified.
(Amended November 3, 1987)
SECTION 7.12 VACANCY IN BOARD OR COMMISSION.
   Unless otherwise provided by this Charter, a vacancy during the term of any
member of a board or commission created by this Charter or by ordinance of the
Council shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner authorized for an
original appointment.
SECTION 7.13 BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS - ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENT.
   That notwithstanding any other provision of this Charter, no person shall be
eligible for membership on any board or commission without being a registered
voter of the City of Mason. Qualifications as a registered voter shall be the
same as those which may be required from time to time by the election laws of
the Revised Code of the State of Ohio. Any provision of this Charter
inconsistent herewith is repealed.
(Added November 4, 1975)
*** ARTICLE VIII: NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS ***
SECTION 8.01 NOMINATIONS.
   Nominations for members of Council shall be made only by petition signed by
qualified electors of the Municipality not less in number than twenty-five.
Such petitions shall be accompanied by a declaration of candidacy and shall be
filed with the election authorities not later than 4:00 p.m. of the ninetieth
day before the date of the regular Municipal election.
   If the nominating petition or declaration of candidacy is found by the
election authorities to contain any defect that would prevent the candidate's
name from being placed on the ballot, the election authorities shall
immediately notify the candidate who shall then have ten days to correct any
such defect.
   No primary election shall be held for Council candidates.
(Amended November 6, 1984; November 6, 2012)
SECTION 8.02 REGULAR MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   The regular municipal election for members of Council shall be held on the
first Tuesday after the first Monday in November in the odd numbered years in
which they are to be elected, commencing in the year 1971. All petitions,
ballots and ballot labels shall be without party mark or designation. Except as
otherwise provided in this Charter, all elections shall be held and conducted
and the results thereof ascertained and certified as provided by the laws of
the State of Ohio.
SECTION 8.03 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   The Council may, at any time, by ordinance or resolution, order a special
election, the purpose of which shall be set forth in the ordinance or
resolution.
SECTION 8.04 CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS.
   All regular and special municipal elections shall be conducted by the Board
of Elections of the County in which the Municipality is located under the
provisions of this Charter, so far as they are applicable. Where the Charter is
silent, the provisions of the Ohio Election Laws shall be followed.
*** ARTICLE IX: INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM ***
SECTION 9.01 INITIATIVE.
   Ordinances and resolutions may be proposed by initiative petition and
adopted by election in the manner now or hereafter provided by the Constitution
or the laws of the State of Ohio except that the initiative petitions shall be
filed with the Clerk of Council, and except that the proposed ordinance or
resolution shall be submitted to the electors for approval or rejection at the
next succeeding general or primary election occurring subsequent to ninety days
after the certification of the proposed ordinance or resolution to the Board of
Elections, or at a special election to be held on a date fixed by the Council
by a vote of at least four of the members thereof and certified by the Clerk of
Council to the Board of Elections.
SECTION 9.02 REFERENDUM.
   Ordinances and resolutions adopted by Council shall be subject to referendum
to the extent and in the manner now or hereafter provided by the Constitution
or the laws of the State of Ohio, except that such ordinances and resolutions
subjected to referendum shall be submitted to the electors for approval or
rejection at the next succeeding general election or primary election occurring
subsequent to ninety days after the certifying of such referendum petition to
the Board of Elections or at a special election to be held on a date fixed by
the Council by a vote of at least four of the members thereof and certified by
the Clerk of Council to the Board of Elections, and except that referendum
petitions shall be filed with the Clerk of Council.
SECTION 9.03 REFERRAL OF ORDINANCE OR RESOLUTION TO THE ELECTORS BY COUNCIL.
   By a vote of at least five members of the Council, any pending ordinance or
resolution may be referred to the electors of the Municipality at a general,
primary or special election. The action of referral provided for in this
section shall be taken by motion and shall go into immediate effect without
publication. Such motion shall be passed not less than ninety days prior to the
date of the primary or general election at which such referred ordinance or
resolution is to be submitted. In the event that such ordinance or resolution
is to be referred for approval or rejection at a special election, the Council
shall, by motion, fix a date for such special election at a date not less than
ninety days after the date of the passage of the motion to refer, and the Clerk
of Council shall cause notice of the special election to be published on the
same day of each week for two consecutive weeks in a newspaper determined by
Council to be of circulation in the Municipality or cause such notice to be
published on the City website.
   The Clerk of Council shall certify to the appropriate Board of Elections
that an election is to be held referring such ordinance or resolution to a vote
of the electors at the date fixed by Council as hereinbefore provided. The
Clerk of Council shall also certify a copy of the ordinance or resolution to be
voted upon to the appropriate Board of Elections.
   At such primary, general or special election this question shall be placed
upon the ballot: “Shall an (ordinance or resolution) providing: (the wording
contained in the title of the proposed ordinance or resolution shall be
inserted here) be adopted?”; with the provision on the ballot for voting
affirmatively or negatively. In the event a majority of those voting on the
issue shall be in the affirmative, the ordinance or resolution shall go into
immediate effect, without the need for further publication.
(Amended February 8, 2021 (approved November 3, 2020))
*** ARTICLE X: FINANCES, TAXATION AND DEBT ***
SECTION 10.01 GENERAL.
   The laws of the State of Ohio relating generally to budgets, appropriations,
debts, bonds, assessments and other fiscal matters of the Municipality shall be
applicable to the Municipality, except as modified by or necessarily
inconsistent with the provisions of this Charter or ordinances of Council
enacted pursuant thereto and except when provision therefor is made in the
Constitution of the State of Ohio.
SECTION 10.02 LIMITATION ON TAX RATE.
   The power of Council to levy taxes shall be subject to the limitations now
or hereafter provided by the Constitution and the general laws of the State of
Ohio and nothing contained in this Charter shall be construed as authorizing
the levy of any taxes in excess of such limitations without a vote of the
people; provided, that this Charter shall not operate as a limitation upon the
power of Council to levy taxes upon such other subjects and for such other
purposes as may be lawful under the Constitution and laws of the State of Ohio,
nor shall the authority of Council to submit additional levies to a vote of the
people under the authority of the Constitution or laws of the State of Ohio be
deemed impaired or abridged by reason of any provision of this Charter.
SECTION 10.03 LIMITATION OF DEBT.
   The Municipality shall not incur debt in excess of the limitations imposed
by the Constitution and the laws of the State of Ohio.
SECTION 10.04 LIMITATIONS ON INCOME TAX.
   The Municipality shall not levy a tax on income and/or earnings at a rate in
excess of one percent (1%) without first obtaining the approval of a majority
of the electors of the Municipality, voting on the question at a general
election. Further, taxpayers who reside in Mason and who pay a municipal income
and/or earnings tax to another municipality shall receive a credit for any
income and/or earnings tax owed by the taxpayer to Mason as set forth in this
Section. The credit Mason residents shall receive on any income and/or earnings
tax otherwise owed to Mason shall be equal to fifty percent (50%) of the income
and/or earnings taxes paid and owed to another municipality for the tax year
2006, sixty-five percent (65%) of the income and/or earnings taxes paid and
owed to another municipality for tax year 2007, eighty percent (80%) of the
income and/or earnings taxes paid and owed to another municipality for the tax
year 2008, ninety percent (90%) of the income and/or earnings taxes paid and
owed to another municipality for the tax year 2009 and 100% of the income and/
or earnings taxes paid and owed to another municipality for the tax year 2010
and all subsequent years. Furthermore, the foregoing income tax credit rates
shall not be changed without first obtaining the approval of the change by a
majority of the electors of the Municipality at a general election.
(Amended; Approved by electors November 6, 2007)
SECTION 10.05 FUNDING OF SAFETY, FIRE AND EMS SERVICES.
   Mason shall raise funds to pay for safety, fire and EMS services through two
revenue sources. First, a continuing real estate tax levy not to exceed 5.0
mills may be imposed on Mason real estate commencing in tax year 2013 for
collection beginning in 2014. This levy shall continue until changed by the
electors of Mason through an amendment to this charter provision. Second, a not
to exceed .0015 tax on income shall be collected by Mason in the same manner as
the income tax set forth in section 10.04 of the Charter, with the exception
that those who own and live in homes in Mason, and who therefore pay the real
estate tax set forth above, shall be exempted from the not to exceed .0015
income tax along with their dependents.
   This income tax shall be imposed starting on January 1, 2013 and shall be at
a rate of .0012 during calendar year 2013, and cannot be changed except by
legislative action receiving an affirmative vote of at least five council
members, and can only take effect on January 1 of the calendar year following
legislative action, provided that such legislative action takes place at least
six months prior to the effective date and shall not exceed .0015.
   If any portion of this section is deemed to be unenforceable, only the
unenforceable portions of this section shall be deleted and the remainder shall
remain in force.
(Added November 6, 2012)
*** ARTICLE XI: GENERAL PROVISIONS ***
SECTION 11.01 SUCCESSION.
   The Municipality of Mason, under this Charter, is hereby declared to be the
legal successor of the Village of Mason, under the laws of the State of Ohio,
and as such it has title to all property, real and personal, owned by its
predecessor, including all monies on deposit and all taxes in process of
collection together with all accounts receivable and rights of action. The
Municipality is liable for all outstanding orders, contracts and debts of its
predecessor, and for any other obligations for which it may be held liable, as
such successor, by any court of competent jurisdiction. All contracts entered
into by the Municipality or for its benefit prior to December 1, 1969, shall
continue in full force and effect.
SECTION 11.02 EFFECT OF CHARTER ON EXISTING LAWS AND RIGHTS.
   The adoption of this Charter shall not affect any pre-existing rights of the
Municipality, nor any right or liability or pending suit or prosecution, either
on behalf of or against the Municipality or any officer thereof, nor any
officer thereof, nor any franchise granted by the Municipality, nor pending
proceedings for the authorization of public improvements or the levy of
assessments therefor. Except as a contrary intent appears herein, all acts of
the Council of the Municipality, including ordinances and resolutions in effect
at the date this Charter becomes effective, shall continue in effect until
lawfully amended or repealed.
   No action or proceeding pending against the Municipality or an officer
thereof shall be abated or affected by the adoption of this Charter, but all
such actions or proceedings shall be prosecuted or defended under the laws in
effect at the time of the filing thereof.
SECTION 11.03 AMENDMENTS TO CHARTER.
   This Charter may be amended as provided by Article XVIII, Section 9, of the
Constitution of Ohio.
SECTION 11.04 REMOVAL OF ELECTED OFFICIALS AND MEMBERS OF BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS.
   In addition to the causes contained in Section
3.02 of this Charter, the Council may remove any member of Council for gross
misconduct, malfeasance, misfeasance, or nonfeasance in office, judicial
declaration of incompetency, willful violation of this Charter or persistent
and willful failure to abide by the rules of the Council; provided that such
removal shall not take place without the affirmative vote of at least five of
the remaining members of Council, nor until the accused member shall have been
notified in writing of the charge against him and given an opportunity to be
heard in person or by legal counsel. The Council and the accused member shall
have the power to subpoena witnesses and the production of evidence. The Clerk
of Council shall have the power to issue subpoenas for witnesses and the
production of evidence on behalf of the Council or the accused member, and
shall have the power to administer oaths. An accused member of Council shall
not vote on the question of his removal.
   The Council may remove members of any board or commission established by
this Charter or by ordinance, for gross misconduct, malfeasance, misfeasance,
or nonfeasance in office, final conviction of a felony involving moral
turpitude, judicial declaration of incompetency, persistent and willful failure
to abide by the rules adopted by the board or commission of which he is a
member, or willful violation of this Charter; provided that such removal shall
not take place without the affirmative vote of five of the members of Council,
nor until the accused official shall have been notified in writing of the
charge against him and given an opportunity to be heard in person or by legal
counsel. The Council and the accused official shall have the power to issue
subpoenas for witnesses and the production of evidence on behalf of the Council
or the accused official, and shall have the power to administer oaths.
   Upon the required vote to remove a member of Council, or any member of
Council or any member of a board or commission as provided by this section of
this Charter, such member shall forfeit his office and such office shall become
vacant and shall be filled in the manner provided by this Charter. Any person
removed from office under this section of this Charter shall not be eligible to
become a candidate for or hold any elective office or to serve as a member of a
board or commission of the Municipality for a period of five years after his
removal.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the recall provisions of Section 705.92 of
the Ohio Revised Code, shall apply to all elected officials holding office
under this Charter.
(Amended May 8, 1973)
SECTION 11.05 EFFECT OF PARTIAL INVALIDITY.
   A determination that any article, section, or part of any article or
section, of this Charter is invalid shall not invalidate or impair the force or
effect of any other part thereof, except to the extent that such other part is
wholly dependent for its operation upon the part declared invalid.
SECTION 11.06 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   The laws of the State of Ohio relating to conflicts of interest and
interests in contracts or expenditures on behalf of the Municipality by
officials and employees of municipalities shall be applicable to officers and
employees of the Municipality of Mason under this Charter.
SECTION 11.07 PERCENTAGE OF DWELLINGS PERMITTED AS APARTMENTS.
   The total number of apartment units as the same are defined in the Zoning
Ordinance of the City of Mason, shall not exceed 20% of the number of single
family dwellings in the City at any time. Condominiums, where each unit is
individually owned, shall be deemed as single family dwellings. (Added May 8,
1973)
SECTION 11.08 DENSITY OF DWELLING UNITS.
   The number of dwelling units in multi- family dwellings, condominiums,
landominiums and townhouses shall not exceed a density of eight (8) per acre
except in overlay areas as established by City Council.
(Amended November 6, 1984; Amendment approved by electors November 6, 2018)
*** ARTICLE XII: TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS ***
SECTION 12.01 EFFECTIVE DATE OF CHARTER.
   This Charter shall be submitted to the electors of the Municipality at the
election to be held November 4, 1969, and if approved by the electors shall,
for the purpose of nominating and electing, and designating officers of the
Municipality and conducting Municipal elections, take effect from the time of
its approval by the electors of the Municipality; and for all other purposes it
shall take effect on the first (1st) day of December in the year nineteen
hundred sixty-nine (December 1, 1969).
SECTION 12.02 CONTINUANCE OF PRESENT OFFICIALS - ABOLISHMENT OF OFFICES.
   Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, all persons holding office at
the time this Charter takes effect shall continue in office and in the
performance of their duties until provisions shall have been otherwise made in
accordance with this Charter for the performance or discontinuance of the
duties of any such office. When such provision shall have been made, the term
of any officer shall expire and the office shall be abolished. The powers which
are conferred and the duties which are imposed upon any officer, body,
commission, board, department, or division of the Municipality under the laws
of the State, or under any municipal ordinance or contract in force at the time
of the taking effect of this Charter shall, if such office, body, commission,
board, department, or division is abolished by this Charter, be thereafter
exercised and discharged by the officer, body, commission, board, department,
or division upon whom are imposed corresponding functions, powers, and duties
by this Charter or by any ordinance or resolution of the Council thereafter
enacted.
SECTION 12.03 CONTINUANCE OF PRESENT EMPLOYEES.
   Every employee of the Municipal government on December 1, 1969, shall
continue in such employment and thereafter be subject in all respects to the
provisions of this Charter and ordinances, resolutions, rules, or regulations
enacted or promulgated thereunder.
SECTION 12.04 CONTINUATION OF VILLAGE CLERK.
   The person holding the office of Village Clerk under the general statutory
form of government whose term would have expired December 31, 1971, if this
Charter had not been adopted, shall be the Clerk of Council and Acting Finance
Director under this Charter with all powers, duties and functions prescribed by
this Charter until November 30, 1971, provided that such person shall be
subject to removal from office as provided in this Charter.
PART ONE: ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
      TITLE ONE - General Provisions
         Chap.
101. Codified Ordinances
         Chap.
103. Official Standards
      TITLE THREE - Legislative
         Chap.
121. Council
         Chap.
123. Ordinances and Resolutions
         
Chap. 125. Real Property Transaction Disclosures (Repealed)
      TITLE FIVE - Administrative
         Chap.
131. Mayor
         Chap.
133. City Manager
         Chap.
135. Law Department
         Chap.
137. Finance Department
         Chap.
139. Planning Department
         Chap.
141. Service Department
         Chap.
143. Safety Department
         Chap.
145. Police Division
         Chap.
147. Department of Fire
         Chap.
149. Inspection and Engineering Department
         Chap.
151. Parks and Recreation Department
         Chap.
153. Personnel Department
         Chap.
155. Planning Commission
         Chap.
157. Zoning, Housing and Building Appeals Board
         Chap.
159. Park and Recreation Board
         Chap.
161. Personnel Review Board
         Chap.
163. Board of Health
         Chap.
165. General Employment Practices
         Chap.
167. Environmental Advisory Commission
         Chap.
168. Board of Veterans’ Affairs
         Chap.
169. Mason Port Authority
         Chap.
171. Economic Development Department
      TITLE SEVEN - Judicial
         Chap.
175. Municipal Court
      TITLE NINE - Taxation
         Chap.
181. Earned Income Tax Regulations Effective Through December 31, 2015
         Chap. 182. Income Tax Regulations Effective Beginning January 1, 2016
         Chap.
183. Supplemental Provisions
         Chap.
185. Transient Occupancy Tax
         Chap.
187. Recreational Facilities Tax
         Chap.
189. Motor Vehicle License Tax
      TITLE ELEVEN - Fee Schedule
         Chap.
205. Fee Schedule
***** TITLE ONE: GENERAL PROVISIONS *****
CHAPTER 101: CODIFIED ORDINANCES
Section
101.01   Designation; citation; headings
101.02   General definitions
101.03   Rules of construction
101.04   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
101.05   Construction of section references
101.06   Conflicting provisions
101.07   Determination of legislative intent
101.08   Severability
101.99   General penalty
Cross-reference:
   Ordinances and Resolutions, see
Ch. 123
   Rules of construction for offenses and penalties, see §
501.04
Statutory reference:
   Citation issuance for minor misdemeanors, see R.C. §§ 2935.26 et seq.
   Codification in book form, see R.C. § 731.23
   Imprisonment until fine and costs are paid, see R.C. §§ 1905.30, 2947.14
   Statute of limitations on prosecutions, see R.C. §§ 501.06, 718.06
§ 101.01 DESIGNATION; CITATION; HEADINGS.
   (a)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the
codified ordinances of Mason, Ohio, 2009, for which designation “codified
ordinances” may be substituted. Code, title, chapter and section headings do
not constitute any part of the law as contained in the codified ordinances.
(R.C. § 1.01)
   (b)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the codified ordinances unless otherwise specified. Any component
code may be referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.”
Sections may be referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the
number, such as “§ 101.01.”
§ 101.02 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   As used in the codified ordinances, unless another definition is provided or
the context otherwise requires:
   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOND. Includes an undertaking.
   CHILD. Includes child by adoption.
   COUNCIL. The legislative authority of the municipality.
   COUNTY. Warren County, Ohio.
   FIRE CHIEF. Shall include the Chief of the Fire Department if the Fire
Department has been established in the municipality, and shall include the Fire
Prevention Officer if no Fire Department has been established in the
municipality.
   IMPRISONED. Shall have the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.05.
   INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and nonfederal
interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical subnetwork
known as the World Wide Web.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY. The legislative authority of the municipality.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MUNICIPALITY or CITY. The City of Mason, Ohio.
   O.A.C. Refers to the Ohio Administrative Code.
   OATH. Includes affirmation and “swear” includes affirm.
   OF UNSOUND MIND. The person lacks the relevant mental capacity.
   OHIO R.C., R.C. or REVISED CODE. Refers to the Ohio Revised Code.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or part of the property.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real property.
   PLAN OF SEWERAGE, SYSTEM OF SEWERAGE, SEWER and SEWERS. Includes sewers,
sewage disposal works and treatment plants, and sewage pumping stations,
together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper therefor.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests. PERSONAL
PROPERTY includes all property except real. REAL PROPERTY includes lands,
tenements and hereditaments.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   REVISED CODE or R.C. Refers to the Ohio Revised Code.
   RULE. Includes regulation.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE, THIS STATE or THE STATE. The State of Ohio.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   UNDERTAKING. Includes a bond.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITING. Includes printing.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes any representation of words, letters,
symbols or figures. This provision does not affect any law relating to
signatures.
   YEAR. Twelve consecutive months.
(R.C. §§ 1.02, 1.05, 1.44, 1.59, 701.01)
§ 101.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (a)   Common and technical usage. Words and phrases shall be read in context
and construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and
phrases that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether by
legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
(R.C. § 1.42)
   (b)   Singular and plural; gender; tense. As used in the codified
ordinances, unless the context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular;
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders; and
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
(R.C. § 1.43)
   (c)   Computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day that constitutes the last
day for doing the act or before its usual closing time on that day, the act may
be performed on the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal
holiday.
      (3)   LEGAL HOLIDAY, as used in divisions (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this
section, means the following days:
         A.   The first day of January, known as New Year’s Day;
         B.   The third Monday in January, known as Martin Luther King, Jr.
Day;
         C.   The third Monday in February, known as President’s Day;
         D.   The day designated in the Act of June 28, 1968, 82 Stat. 250, 5
U.S.C. § 6103, as amended, for the commemoration of Memorial Day;
         E.   The nineteenth day of June, known as Juneteenth Day;
         F.   The fourth day of July, known as Independence Day;
         G.   The first Monday in September, known as Labor Day;
         H.   The second Monday in October, known as Columbus Day;
         I.   The eleventh day of November, known as Veteran’s Day;
         J.   The fourth Thursday in November, known as Thanksgiving Day;
         K.   The twenty-fifth day of December, known as Christmas Day; and
         L.   Any day appointed and recommended by the Governor of this state
or the President of the United States as a holiday.
      (4)   If any day designated in this section as a legal holiday falls on a
Sunday, the next succeeding day is a legal holiday.
(R.C. § 1.14)
      (5)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included. If priority of legal rights
depends upon the order of events on the same day, the priority shall be
determined by the times in the day at which they respectively occurred.
(R.C. § 1.15)
      (6)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
(R.C. § 1.45)
§ 101.04 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (a)   The repeal of a repealing provision of the codified ordinances does
not revive the provision originally repealed nor impair the effect of any
saving clause therein.
(R.C. § 1.57)
   (b)   The re-enactment, amendment or repeal of the codified ordinances does
not, except as provided in division (c) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the provision or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; and/or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment; and the
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the provision had not
been repealed or amended.
   (c)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a re-enactment or amendment of the codified ordinances, the penalty, forfeiture
or punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the
codified ordinances as amended.
(R.C. § 1.58)
§ 101.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (a)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, or of divisions or subdivisions of a
section, the reference shall be construed to mean a violation of any provision
of the section, sections, divisions or subdivisions included in the reference.
   (b)   References in the codified ordinances to action taken or authorized
under designated sections of the codified ordinances include, in every case,
action taken or authorized under the applicable legislative provision which is
superseded by the codified ordinances.
(R.C. § 1.23)
   (c)   A reference to any portion of a provision of the codified ordinances
applies to all re-enactments or amendments thereof.
(R.C. § 1.55)
   (d)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 101.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (a)   If there is a conflict between figures and words in expressing a
number, the words govern.
(R.C. § 1.46)
   (b)   If a general provision conflicts with a special or local provision,
they shall be construed, if possible, so that effect is given to both. If the
conflict between the provisions is irreconcilable, the special or local
provision prevails as an exception to the general provision, unless the general
provision is the later adoption and the manifest intent is that the general
provision prevail.
(R.C. § 1.51)
   (c)   (1)   If ordinances enacted at different meetings of Council are
irreconcilable, the ordinance latest in date of enactment prevails.
      (2)   If amendments to the same ordinance are enacted at different
meetings of Council, one amendment without reference to another, the amendments
are to be harmonized, if possible, so that effect may be given to each. If the
amendments are substantively irreconcilable, the latest in date of enactment
prevails. The fact that a later amendment restates language deleted by an
earlier amendment, or fails to include language inserted by an earlier
amendment, does not of itself make the amendments irreconcilable. Amendments
are irreconcilable only when changes made by each cannot reasonably be put into
simultaneous operation.
(R.C. § 1.52)
§ 101.07 DETERMINATION OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (a)   In enacting an ordinance, it is presumed that:
      (1)   Compliance with the constitutions of the state and of the United
States is intended;
      (2)   The entire ordinance is intended to be effective;
      (3)   A just and reasonable result is intended; and
      (4)   A result feasible of execution is intended.
(R.C. § 1.47)
   (b)   An ordinance is presumed to be prospective in its operation unless
expressly made retrospective.
(R.C. § 1.48)
   (c)   If an ordinance is ambiguous, the court, in determining the intention
of Council may consider among other matters:
      (1)   The object sought to be attained;
      (2)   The circumstances under which the ordinance was enacted;
      (3)   The legislative history;
      (4)   The common law or former legislative provisions, including laws
upon the same or similar subjects;
      (5)   The consequences of a particular construction; and/or
      (6)   The administrative construction of the ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.49)
§ 101.08 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of the codified ordinances or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not
affect other provisions or applications of the section or related sections
which can be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to
this end the provisions are severable.
(R.C. § 1.50)
§ 101.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (a)   Whenever, in the codified ordinances or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is
otherwise provided, whoever violates any provision shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding $500, a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months, or both. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation continues or occurs.
   (b)   The failure of any officer or employee of the municipality to perform
any official duty imposed by the codified ordinances shall not subject the
officer or employee to the penalty imposed for a violation unless a penalty is
specifically provided for the failure.
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance violations and penalties, see R.C. § 715.67
CHAPTER 103: OFFICIAL STANDARDS
Section
103.01   City seal
Statutory reference:
   State legal holidays, see R.C. §§ 1.14, 5.20 et seq.
   State standard of time, see R.C. § 1.04
§ 103.01 CITY SEAL.
   A new seal for the City of Mason is hereby adopted as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c92b507198cac9540f9ff13dca280883e1007fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3827.jpg]
(Ord. 51-1979, passed 5-29-1979)
***** TITLE THREE: LEGISLATIVE *****
CHAPTER 121: COUNCIL
Section
121.01   Council meetings
121.02   Rules of procedure
121.03   Mason City Council General Code of Conduct
121.04   Disclosure of confidential information
121.05   Executive sessions (Repealed)
121.06   Compensation
121.07   Clerk of Council
121.08   Public participation at Council meetings
Charter reference:
   Clerk of Council, see Charter §
3.06
   Conflict of interest, see Charter §
11.06
   Mayor as presiding officer, see Charter §
3.04
   Meetings, see Charter §
3.08
   Number and term, see Charter §
3.01
   Organization, see Charter §
3.03
   Powers, see Charter §
3.07
   Qualifications, see Charter §
3.02
   Removal, see Charter §
11.04
   Salary, see Charter §
3.10
   Special meetings, see Charter §
3.09
   Vacancies, see Charter §
3.11
Cross-reference:
   Conflict of interest, see §
525.10
Statutory reference:
   Open meetings, see R.C. § 121.22
§ 121.01 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (a)   Council shall, except as otherwise provided in this section, meet in
regular session in the Council Chamber at 7:00 p.m. on the second and fourth
Monday of each month. Council may, by majority vote of those present and
voting, establish additional meetings as deemed necessary or waive any
scheduled meeting. The Mayor or any three members may call special meetings
upon at least 12 hours’ notice to each member, served personally or provided by
electronic or phone communication.
(Ord. 89-168, passed 12-28-1989)
   (b)   All official action of the Council, and all deliberations on official
business shall be conducted only in open meetings, except the members of
Council may hold an executive session only after a majority of a quorum of the
public body determines, by a roll call vote, to hold an executive session and
only at a regular or special meeting only for those purposes permitted by the
general laws of the State of Ohio or the Charter of the City of Mason.
   (c)   If, upon a determination of exigent circumstances, including but not
limited to lack of a quorum, inclement weather, or facility safety concerns,
the Mayor, or Vice Mayor in the Mayor’s absence, may cancel any regular meeting
of Council by providing notice to the City Manager, who in turn shall provide
notice to all members of Council by electronic or phone communication.
(Ord. 88-107, passed 9-12-1988; Ord. 2001-189, passed 11-12-2001; Ord. 2023-42,
passed 3-13-2023)
§ 121.02 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   In addition to the legislative procedure prescribed by Article IV of the
City Charter, the following additional rules are hereby adopted for the
expeditious functioning of Council.
   (a)   The agenda for all regular meetings of Council shall be prepared by
the office of the City Manager.
   (b)   The agenda for each regular meeting of Council shall be delivered
personally or by electronic communication to each Council member on or before
3:00 p.m. on Saturday before the regular meeting. A Council member may have
items of business included on the agenda of any regular meeting by requesting
the City Manager to so include them no later than 12:00 noon on the Thursday
preceding the regular meeting. The City Manager, on his or her own initiative,
may include on the agenda any item of business he or she considers a proper
subject for Council consideration so long as it appears on the agenda which was
delivered to the Council members as set forth herein. The Law Director may have
topics or legislation placed on the agenda which are required by law or are
within their special knowledge as being essential for the proper operation of
the city.
   (c)   Members of Council may introduce ordinances or resolutions not
included on the agenda at regular meetings with a vote of the majority of
Council. At special meetings only those topics which are listed on the notice
of the special meeting will be considered unless five members agree to consider
an unlisted topic.
   (d)   Before any member of Council may be heard in discussion on any
ordinance, resolution or motion, or any other business before Council, he or
she must be recognized by the Mayor, unless the Ma yor declares the floor open
for free discussion.
   (e)   No person other than a member of Council may be heard at any Council
meeting except at an appointed time for citizen participation as listed on the
agenda. The Law Director may determine whether the topic is legally appropriate
for Council discussion.
   (f)   The Mayor shall have authority to appoint Council members to special
committees in order to expedite the business of Council, but any member of
Council may decline to serve on any committee without exposing himself or
herself to the charge of nonfeasance in office. The agenda and any staff notes
shall constitute the minutes of any committee meeting without any formal
approval process.
   (g)   Minutes of previous meetings need not be read in full, but any member
may suggest corrections of the minutes which shall be acted upon before
approval of the entire minutes. Approval shall require at least a majority.
   (h)   The vote on any ordinance, resolution or motion shall be by voice on
roll call.
   (i)   The Law Director and the City Manager shall be free to interject
comments or advice during any discussion on any topic before Council.
(Ord. 89-1977, passed 12-12-1977)
   (j)   The members of Council shall vote on the adoption of ordinances and
resolutions in a continuously rotating sequence. The first vote after this
provision goes in effect shall be cast by that member seated immediately to the
left of the Chairperson. Thereafter, the first vote shall be cast in the order
in which the members, including the Chairperson, are seated around the table in
the Council chamber.
(Ord. 114-1979, passed 10-8-1979)
   (k)   Any person, upon request, may obtain reasonable advance notification
of all meetings at which any specific type of public business is to be
discussed. Provisions for advance notification may include providing by
electronic communication the agenda of meetings to all subscribers on an email
subscription list.
   (l)   For purposes of efficiency and decorum, and except as otherwise
provided in the Charter and Codified Ordinances, Council meetings shall in
general be conducted in accordance with Robert’s Rules of Order Revised. The
Law Director shall serve as parliamentarian at meetings of Council. The
Chairperson shall rule in compliance with the parliamentarian’s opinion
whenever the opinion is requested.
   (m)   If any Council member chooses to abstain on any issue, that vote shall
not be counted as a yea or nay but shall be considered only for purposes of
determining a quorum. In other words, it should be considered as a vote “I am
present but not voting.”
(Ord. 89-1977, passed 12-12-1977; Ord. 2023-42, passed 3-13-2023)
§ 121.03 MASON CITY COUNCIL GENERAL CODE OF CONDUCT.
Section 1. General Code of Conduct
   (a)   In an effort to promote transparency, this code of conduct contains
principles that shall guide the conduct of City Council with the express
purpose of fostering the highest standards of governance, cooperation, respect
and compliance for the spirit of the laws of the State of Ohio, the City
Charter and laws and policies affecting City of Mason operations.
   (b)   Council is here by charged with the enforcement of this code of
conduct by public censure of violations, which requires a vote of a majority of
the members of Council, excluding the member of Council subject to possible
censure. Upon approval by a majority of Council, the censure shall be filed
with the Clerk of Council.
   (c)   All members of Council shall:
      (1)   Recognize the Charter role of the Mayor, Council, and City Manager,
   particularly in contracting, development projects, incentives, and contact
with City vendors. Council shall not interfere with the powers and duties of
the City Manager in the supervision and conduct of the affairs of the
administrative departments of the Municipality as outlined in the City Charter;
and
      (2)   Recognize the obligation of all elected officials to not attempt to
privately interfere with quasi-judicial proceedings of boards and commissions,
and not to privately interfere with third-party contract negotiations or
implementation;
      (3)   Cultivate a culture of reporting of conflicts of interest and
unethical conduct, and a commitment to avoid retaliating against those who
report suspected conflicts or unethical conduct;
      (4)   Commit to understanding, and following the applicable ethics and
conflict of interest laws of the Ohio Revised Code, the City Charter, and the
Mason Codified Ordinances;
      (5)   Commit to using their office for the public good and never use City
resources or personnel for personal or political activity;
      (6)   Support the integrity of the City’s development process and promote
public trust by directing inquiries from developers related to financial
assistance or land-use approvals to the City Manager’s office, so that they can
be handled uniformly through transparent City administrative processes;
      (7)   Commit to conducting City business, public deliberations, and
processes in an open, transparent, and public manner unless legally appropriate
to conduct in a confidential setting. Council shall always conduct business in
an atmosphere of respect and civility; and
      (8)   Not use City resources or personnel to disclose confidential
information obtained through the performance of Council duties for private gain
or publicity, or as prohibited by Ohio Revised Code section 102.03(B);
      (9)   Adhere to all applicable laws and regulations that provide equal
opportunity for all persons regardless of characteristics as defined by the
U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission;
      (10)   Report, without undue delay, to the City Manager, City Law
Director, Ohio Ethics Commission, or other appropriate authority, conduct in
the performance of official duties that is reasonably believed to violate the
law, or reasonably believed to violate this code of conduct.
Section 2. Elected Officials Conduct with other Elected Officials
   (a)   Council shall foster a culture of mutual respect and civility for one
another by giving deference to experienced and knowledgeable peers and
appreciate their value and contributions to the entire Council body. Every
Council member has the right to an individual opinion which should be respected
by other members of Council. Council members should assume that other members
of the Council have the appropriate motives and interest of the public in mind
and should not criticize differing opinions because they believe them to be
lacking in judgment or improperly motivated. Council will seek to foster a
collaborative relationship with each other that brings positivity and
productivity to the office that helps fulfill the City’s mission.
   (b)   Council members have a public stage and have the responsibility to
showcase how individuals with disparate points of view can find common ground
and seek compromise that benefits the Mason community as a whole. It is
expected that Council will use civility, respect and decorum during discussion
and debate with each other.
   (c)   It is the responsibility of the Mayor, or designated Chair, to keep
comments of Council members on track during Council meetings. Council members
should respect efforts by the Mayor to focus discussion on current agenda
items. If there is a disagreement about the agenda or the Mayor’s actions,
those objections should be voiced politely and with reason, following commonly
recognized parliamentary procedure. The City’s Law Director serves as the
parliamentarian for the City and is available to Council to answer questions or
interpret situations according to parliamentary procedures.
Section 3. Elected Officials Conduct with the Public
   (a)   In Public Meetings
      (1)   Public participation is an important component of the democratic
process. Council members should treat all citizens with respect and
impartiality. Council is encouraged to practice active listening when a member
of the public is addressing Council. Council members are encouraged to avoid
debate, criticism, or argument with members of the public.
   (b)   Outside Public Meetings
      (1)   Council members will frequently be asked to explain a Council
action or provide their opinion about an issue as they meet and talk with
constituents in the community. It is appropriate to provide a brief overview of
City policy and to refer to City staff for further information. Individual
Council members should not promise Council or staff action on any issue or
concern.
      (2)   Council acts as a body and speaks as individuals. Council members
must ensure that in expressing their own opinions they do not mislead any
listener into believing that their individual opinion is that of the entire
Council, unless the Council has taken a vote on that issue and the Council
member’s opinion is the same as the decision made by Council. A Council member
has the right to state a personal opinion and has the right to indicate that
they are stating such as a member of Council but must always clarify that they
are not speaking on behalf of the City or the Council unless authorized by
Council to do so.
      (3)   This policy applies to interactions with individual community
members as well as the media.
Section 4. Elected Official Conduct with City Staff
   (a)   The Council-Manager form of government combines the strong political
leadership of elected officials with the strong managerial experience of an
appointed City Manager. General legislative power lies with City Council and
Council hires the City Manager to be the government’s full time Chief Executive
Officer charged with administering the operations of City government and
implementing policies enacted by City Council. Governance of the City relies on
the cooperative efforts of elected officials who set policy and the City
Manager and staff who implement and administer the Council’s policies. Every
effort should be made by both Council members and City staff to show mutual
respect for the contributions made by each individual for the good of the Mason
community.
   (b)   Treat all staff as professionals
      (1)   Council members should treat all staff as professionals. Clear,
honest communication that respects the abilities and experience of each City
employee is expected. Elected officials should never express concerns about the
performance of a City employee in public or directly to the employee. Concerns
regarding staff performance should be directed to the City Manager.
   (c)   Respect the City Manager’s Executive and Administrative Authority
      (1)   All requests for information or questions regarding City operations
   should be directed to the City Manager. Questions or inquiries of City staff
should be directed to the City Manager.
      (2)   The City Manager has full authority over the appointment and
removal of all municipal personnel. Department heads are responsible solely to
the City Manager for carrying out the mission and responsibilities of their
departments.
      (3)   Elected and appointed officials acting in their individual capacity
must not attempt to influence City staff on the making of appointments,
awarding of contracts, selection of consultants, development processes or
granting of City licenses and permits and should not promise staff action on
any issue or concern.
Section 5. Financial Responsibility
   (a)   To ensure public confidence in the integrity of City Government and as
a condition of public service, you are expected to adhere to these fundamental
principles of ethical behavior:
      (1)   Public service is a public trust, requiring you to place loyalty to
the Constitution, the laws, and ethical principles above private gain.
      (2)   You shall make no unauthorized commitments or promise of any kind
purported to bind the City.
      (3)   You shall satisfy in good faith your obligations as citizens,
including all just financial obligations, especially those such as Federal,
state, or local taxes that are imposed by law.
(Ord. 2023-42, passed 3-13-2023)
§ 121.04 DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (a)   No Council member shall disclose or use, without appropriate
authorization, any information acquired in the course of his or her official
duties which has been clearly designated by the City Manager or presiding
officer of the meeting to him or her as confidential when a confidential
designation is warranted because of the status of the proceedings or the
circumstances under which the information was received, and preserving its
confidentiality is necessary to the proper conduct of government business.
   (b)   Council members who violate this rule shall be subject to expulsion by
a vote of five members of Council, after receiving notice of the charge and an
opportunity to be heard.
(Ord. 88-23, passed 3-14-1988)
   (c)   All subjects discussed in executive session are considered
confidential unless by majority vote of Council any part or all of the
information that was received is released from the confidentiality.
(Ord. 89-116, passed 8-28-1989)
   (d)   Council members who are not present at an executive session of Council
may be informed of the content of the executive session on a confidential basis
by any other member of Council or the City Manager provided that the absent
Council member is not precluded from having the information due to conflict
that might otherwise exclude that Council member from participating in the
executive session.
(Ord. 91-60, passed 5-13-1991; Ord. 2023-42, passed 3-13-2023)
§ 121.05 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS (REPEALED).
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed by Ordinance 91-129, passed December 9, 1991.
§ 121.06 COMPENSATION.
   Effective December 1, 2021, the members of Council and the Mayor shall be
compensated as follows:
 
City Council $800 per month
Vice Mayor   $1,000 per month
Mayor        $1,200 per month
 
(Ord. 90-118, passed 10-22-1990; Ord. 2007-179, passed 11-26-2007; Ord. 2019-
142, passed 11-18-2019; Ord. 2023-42, passed 3-13-2023)
§ 121.07 CLERK OF COUNCIL.
   (a)   There is hereby created a position of Clerk of Council with the City
of Mason. The Clerk of Council shall be appointed by the Council pursuant to
the Charter. During a temporary absence of the appointed Clerk of Council, such
other employees as designated by the City Manager may serve in the capacity of
Acting Clerk of Council and shall exercise all duties and responsibilities of
the Clerk of Council.
(Ord. 2010-116, passed 11-1-2010; Ord. 2023-42, passed 3-13-2023)
§ 121.08 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (a)   City Council welcomes residents and visitors to its meetings. With the
exception of executive sessions, all meetings of City Council are open to the
public.
   (b)   In order for all attendees to have an opportunity to address Council
and feel welcome, Council has the discretion to provide a designated
opportunity for the public to address City Council at Council meetings. Council
desires an atmosphere that allows for constructive public input, and therefore
requests that everyone attending a public meeting observe the following
guidelines:
      (1)   Speakers may not approach the podium or speak until acknowledged by
the Chair. Speakers must state their names and addresses for the record from
the podium. A signup sheet may be used to help organize comments and prioritize
Mason residents.
      (2)   The Chair will recognize each speaker, and only one person may
speak at a time.
      (3)   Speakers shall have five (5) minutes to address Council. That limit
may be extended or otherwise modified at the discretion of the majority of
Council.
      (4)   Anyone who willfully disrupts a City Council meeting may be asked
to leave Council Chambers. No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a
lawful meeting shall do any act which obstructs or interferes with the due
conduct of such meeting; or make any utterance, gesture, or display which
outrages the sensibilities of the group.
      (5)   In order to protect the City's network security, attendees
addressing Council shall not be permitted to connect to any City IT equipment
by means of flash drive, portable hard drive, CD, DVD, or other means. Any
exhibits or other material provided by attendees must be hard copy only or
produced in collaboration with City staff.
      (6)   Recognition of Visitors is intended to gain public input and not to
engage in debate, Q&A, or back and forth with individual Council members.
   (c)   Subject to the above rules, members of the public may address City
Council during the Recognition of Visitors portion of the agenda through
teleconference, video conference, or any other similar electronic technology,
as may be provided by the City.
(Ord. 2021-48, passed 3-22-2021; Ord. 2021-91, passed 8-9-2021; Ord. 2023-42,
passed 3-13-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Disturbing a lawful meeting, see R.C. § 2917.12
 
CHAPTER 123: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
Section
123.01   Publication by posting
Charter reference:
   Action to be taken by ordinance and resolution, see Charter §
4.01
   Adoption of technical codes by reference, see Charter §
4.14
   Amendment, see Charter §
4.11
   Authentication, see Charter §
4.09
   Codification, see Charter §
4.15
   Content of emergency ordinance and resolutions, see Charter §
4.07
   Effective date, see Charter §
4.08
   Initiative, see Charter §
9.01
   Introduction of ordinances and resolutions, see Charter §
4.02
   Public hearing on zoning ordinance or resolution, see Charter §
4.13
   Publication, see Charter §
4.16
   Reading, see Charter §
4.05
   Recording, see Charter §
4.10
   Referendum, see Charter §
9.02
   Referral of zoning ordinances to Planning Commission, see Charter §
4.12
   Referral to the electors, see Charter §
9.03
   Style, see Charter §
4.03
   Subject of ordinances and resolutions, see Charter §
4.04
   Vote required for passage, see Charter §
4.06
Cross-reference:
   Codification, see
Ch. 101
§ 123.01 PUBLICATION BY POSTING.
   Pursuant to §
4.16 of the City Charter, the publishing place in the municipality for the
publication of ordinances and resolutions by posting is hereby determined to be
either or both the atrium lobby of the Mason Municipal Center at 6000 Mason-
Montgomery Road or the city’s web site at www.imaginemason.org.
(Ord. 10-1970, passed 1-26-1970)
CHAPTER 125: REAL PROPERTY TRANSACTION DISCLOSURES
Editors’ note:
   Chapter 125 was repealed in its entirety by Ordinance 2022-85, passed August
8, 2022.
***** TITLE FIVE: ADMINISTRATIVE *****
CHAPTER 131: MAYOR
Editor’s note:
   There are no sections in Chapter 131. This chapter has been established to
provide a place for cross-references and any future legislation.
Charter reference:
   Conflict of interest, see Charter §
11.06
   Election, term, qualifications and powers, see Charter §
3.04
   Mayor to serve as presiding officer of Council, see Charter §
3.04
   Salary, see Charter §
3.10
   Vice Mayor, see Charter §
3.05
Cross-reference:
   Conflict of interest, see §
525.10
CHAPTER 133: CITY MANAGER
Section
133.01   Administrative Assistant
133.02   Personnel Director
133.021   Public Information Officer
133.022   Receptionist
133.023   Human Resources Technician
133.024   Information Technology Manager
133.025   Information Technology Technician
133.026   Government Relations
133.03   Ohio cooperative purchasing
133.04   ODOT cooperative purchasing
133.05   City Manager purchasing authority
133.06   Purchase of supplies, materials and labor by reverse auction on the
internet
133.07   Joint purchasing programs
133.08   Payment of fees and items collected on behalf of other governments and
organizations
Charter reference:
   Acting Manager, see Charter §
5.03
   Appointment and removal, see Charter §
5.01
   City Manager may serve as head of other Departments, see Charter §
6.13
   Conflict of interest, see Charter §
11.06, §
525.10
   Head of Inspection and Engineering Department, see Charter §
6.09
   Head of Personnel Department, see Charter §
6.11
   Head of Planning Department, see Charter §
6.06
   Head of Service Department, see Charter §
6.07
   Heads of other Departments appointed by City Manager, see Charter §
6.13
   Powers and duties, see Charter §
5.04
   Qualifications, see Charter §
5.02
Cross-reference:
   Conflict of interest, see §
525.10
   Purchase authority and certificate of fiscal officer, see §
137.14
§ 133.01 ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT.
   (a)   The position of Administrative Assistant to the City Manager is hereby
created.
   (b)   The Administrative Assistant shall be appointed by and report to the
City Manager and be responsible for those duties assigned to him or her by the
City Manager.
   (c)   The Administrative Assistant shall be compensated at the rate
established for pay range number 21.
(Ord. 52-1979, passed 5-14-1979)
§ 133.02 PERSONNEL DIRECTOR.
   There is hereby created the position of Personnel Director, who shall be
employed by the City Manager, shall serve under his or her direction and at his
or her pleasure and shall have duties as are outlined in the Charter and
additional duties as directed by the City Manager.
(Ord. 27-1977, passed 4-25-1977; Ord. 96-74, passed 6-10-1996)
§ 133.021 PUBLIC INFORMATION OFFICER.
   There is hereby created a position of Public Information Officer with the
Administration Department.
(Ord. 2000-62, passed 5-8-2000)
§ 133.022 RECEPTIONIST.
   There is hereby created a position of receptionist with the Administration
Department.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 133.023 HUMAN RESOURCES TECHNICIAN.
   There is hereby created a position of Human Resources Technician with the
Administration Department.
(Ord. 2001-23, passed 1-22-2001)
§ 133.024 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY MANAGER.
   There is hereby created a position of Information Technology Manager with
the Administration Department.
(Ord. 2001-24, passed 1-22-2001)
§ 133.025 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY TECHNICIAN.
   There is hereby created a position of Information Technology Technician with
the Administration Department.
(Ord. 2004-49, passed 4-12-2004)
§ 133.026 GOVERNMENT RELATIONS.
   (a)   The part-time position of Government Relations is hereby established.
   (b)   The position of Government Relations shall be compensated for his or
her services.
   (c)   The City Manager shall have the authority to approve a flexible
schedule that approximates the compensation structure on a monthly basis.
(Ord. 2010-117, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 133.03 OHIO COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   (a)   The City Manager hereby requests authority in the name of the city to
participate in state contracts which the Department of Administrative Services,
Office of State Purchasing has entered into for the purchase of supplies,
services, equipment and certain materials pursuant to R.C. § 125.04.
   (b)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to agree in the name of the city
to be bound by all contract terms and conditions as the Department of
Administrative Services, Office of State Purchasing prescribes. The terms and
conditions may include a reasonable fee to cover the administrative costs which
the Department of Administrative Services incurs as a result of the city’s
participation in a contract. Further, the City Manager does hereby agree to be
bound by all terms and conditions.
   (c)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to agree in the name of the city
to directly pay the vendor, under each state contract in which it participates,
for items it receives pursuant to the contract, and that the City Manager does
hereby agree to directly pay the vendor.
(Ord. 87-29, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 133.04 ODOT COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   (a)   The city is hereby authorized to participate in contracts of the Ohio
Department of Transportation for the purchase of machinery, materials, supplies
and other articles which the Department has entered into pursuant to R.C. §
5513.01(B).
   (b)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to execute all documents
necessary to participate in contracts, and agrees on behalf of the city to be
bound to all terms and conditions the Director of Transportation prescribes.
   (c)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to agree in the name of the city
to directly pay the vendor, under each contract of the Ohio Department of
Transportation in which the city participates, for items it receives pursuant
to the contract.
   (d)   The city agrees to hold the Director of Transportation and the Ohio
Department of Transportation harmless for any claim or dispute arising out of
participation in a contract pursuant to R.C. § 5513.01(B).
(Ord. 91-20, passed 2-11-1991)
§ 133.05 CITY MANAGER PURCHASING AUTHORITY.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized to purchase supplies or materials or
to provide for labor under a contract without advertising and competitive
bidding provided that the total expenditure does not exceed the threshold for
prevailing wage requirements for new construction, as set forth in R.C.
§4115.03(B)(1), and as adjusted by R.C. §4115.034, and as the same may be
amended from lime to time. When the expenditure of funds for the purchase of
supplies or materials, or to provide labor for any work to be performed under a
contract, exceeds the amount established and adjusted by this section, such
expenditure shall first be authorized and directed by ordinance passed by the
Council. In the case of change orders under an existing contract, the City
Manager is authorized to make an expenditure on any one project not to exceed
the amount established and adjusted by this section. The initial amount
established by this section shall be $50,000 starting in 2022. The amount
established by this section may be adjusted in increments based upon the
accumulative annual cost-of-living increase in compensation approved by Council
provided that the City Manager provides notice to Council of the adjusted
amount. By motion, Council may further adjust the amount established by this
section. The adjusted amount will be updated and published in the codified fee
schedule.
(Ord. 2002-127, passed 9-9-2002; Am. Ord. 2011-81, passed 9-12-2011; Am. Ord.
2022-82, passed 6-13-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Declared emergency; purchasing, see §
137.14
§ 133.06 PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES, MATERIALS AND LABOR BY REVERSE AUCTION ON THE
INTERNET.
   (a)   When it is determined to be advantageous to the city, the City Manager
is hereby authorized, to purchase services, supplies or materials by reverse
auction on the internet, after soliciting proposals for those services,
supplies or materials, including specifications about the services, supplies
and materials needed, terms for delivery, other terms and conditions, and the
relative importance of price and other evaluation factors. These proposals may
require offerors to provide a performance bond, or another similar form of
financial security, as the City Manager deems prudent. As used in this section,
INTERNET means the international computer network of both federal and
nonfederal interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical
subnetwork called the World Wide Web.
   (b)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to solicit proposals through a
request for proposals (“RFP”), which request shall be published by
advertisement of the request for proposals (“RFP”), on the same day of each
week for not less than two nor more than four consecutive weeks in a newspaper
of general circulation within the city, and continuously posted in a
conspicuous place in the atrium of the Mason Municipal Center, and on the
city’s website, from the time of the first advertisement of the request for
proposals through the time that the proposals must have been submitted.
   (c)   To ensure full understanding of and responsiveness to solicitation
requirements, the City Manager, or his or her designee may conduct discussions
with responsible offerors who submit proposals determined to be reasonably
susceptible of being selected for award. The city shall give offerors fair and
equal treatment in any opportunity for discussion regarding any clarification,
correction or revision of their proposals.
   (d)   If the expenditure of funds for the purchase of supplies or materials
or to provide labor for any work to be performed under the proposal is less
than, or equal to, the amount specified by ordinance of Council for which the
purchases or work may be accomplished without advertisement and competitive
bidding, the City Manager may award a contract to the offeror whose proposal
the city determines to be the most advantageous to the city, taking into
consideration factors such as price and the evaluation criteria stated in the
request for proposals. If the expenditure of funds for the purchase of supplies
or materials or to provide labor for any work to be performed under the
proposal exceeds the amount specified by ordinance of Council for which the
purchases or work may be accomplished without advertisement and competitive
bidding, the expenditure shall first be authorized and directed by ordinance
passed by the Council. The city shall maintain a contract file which shall
contain the basis on which the award is made.
(Ord. 2004-60, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 133.07 JOINT PURCHASING PROGRAMS.
   (a)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to participate in any joint
purchasing program operated by or through a national or state association of
political subdivisions in which the city is eligible for membership.
   (b)   Acquisitions of equipment, material, supplies or services, through
participation in joint purchasing program under division (a) of this section,
is exempt from any advertisement and competitive bidding requirements otherwise
required by law, if the contract in question was awarded pursuant to a publicly
solicited request for a proposal or a competitive selection procedure of
another political subdivision within this state or in another state.
   (c)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to agree in the name of the city
to directly pay the vendor, under each joint purchasing program contract in
which it participates, for items it receives pursuant to the contract, and that
the City Manager does hereby agree to directly pay the vendor.
   (d)   If the expenditure of funds for the purchase of equipment, material,
supplies or services under the proposal available through participation in a
joint purchasing program exceeds the amount specified by ordinance of Council
for which the purchases or services may be accomplished without advertisement
and competitive bidding, the expenditure shall first be authorized and directed
by ordinance passed by the Council.
(Ord. 2006-36, passed 3-27-2006)
§ 133.08 PAYMENT OF FEES AND ITEMS COLLECTED ON BEHALF OF OTHER GOVERNMENTS AND
ORGANIZATIONS.
   The City Manager may hereby authorize payments of fees and items collected
on behalf of other governments and organizations that exceed the City Manager
city’s purchasing authority without any additional authorization or ordinance
of Council provided that the entire cost is covered by fees charged.
(Ord. 2013-83, passed 10-28-2013)
CHAPTER 135: LAW DEPARTMENT
Section
135.01   Law Director
Charter reference:
   Appointment of Law Director, see Charter §
6.02
   Conflict of interest, see Charter §
11.06
   Department created, see Charter §
6.01
   Law Director’s powers and duties, see Charter §
6.03
Cross-reference:
   Conflict of interest, see §
525.10
§ 135.01 LAW DIRECTOR.
   There is hereby appointing a Law Director within the City of Mason.
(Ord. 2003-92, passed 7-28-2003)
CHAPTER 137: FINANCE DEPARTMENT
Section
137.01   Establishing and closing funds policy
137.02   Application fee for zoning changes, annexation, plat and other
approvals
137.03   Fee for special meeting of Planning Commission
137.04   Finance Technician; creation, qualifications and duties
137.05   Reserved
137.06   Reserved
137.07   Investment and Depository Policy
137.08   Reserved
137.09   Finance Director to allocate investment income
137.10   Finance Clerk
137.11   Account Clerk
137.12   Finance Director
137.13   Deputy Tax Administrator
137.14   Purchase authority and certificate of fiscal officer
137.15   Surplus property
Charter reference:
   Appointment of Finance Director, see Charter §
6.04
   Conflict of interest, see Charter §
11.06
   Department created, see Charter §
6.01
   Finances generally, see Charter §
10.01
   Limitation of debt, see Charter §
10.03
   Powers and duties of Finance Director, see Charter §
6.05
Cross-reference:
   Conflict of interest, see §
525.10
Statutory reference:
   Deposit of public moneys, see R.C. § 117.17
   Special funds authorized, see R.C. Ch. 5705
   Treasury investment, see R.C. §§ 731.56 et seq.
§ 137.01 ESTABLISHING AND CLOSING FUNDS POLICY.
   (a)   In order for the city to establish new funds and to close old funds to
properly account for receipts, expenditures and balance restricted for a
specific purpose, the Finance Director is hereby authorized to establish and
maintain the following funds:
      (1)   General Fund.
      (2)   Sinking fund whenever the city has outstanding bonds other than
serial bonds.
      (3)   Bond retirement fund for the retirement of serial bonds, notes, or
certificates of indebtedness.
      (4)   A special fund for each special levy.
      (5)   A special bond fund for each bond issue when required.
      (6)   A special fund for each class of revenues derived from a source
other than the general property tax, which the law requires to be used for a
particular purpose.
      (7)   A special fund for each proprietary activity, including public
utilities and others that the city wants to be self sufficient.
      (8)   A trust fund for any amount received by the city in trust,
including when the city is a fiduciary agent for another legal entity.
      (9)   A special fund when Council or the City Manager wants to capture
additional financial information about a specific source of revenue or a
specific activity.
      (10)   A special fund when Council or the City Manager want to account
for restricted gifts or bequests that will not be held in trust.
      (11)   A special fund when Council or the City Manager wants to impose
internal restriction of the use of otherwise unrestricted resources.
      (12)   Any fund required by ordinance, state law, federal law, or grant
agreement.
   (b)   The Finance Director is hereby authorized to close any fund (except
the General Fund) that no longer has a fund balance and is not anticipated to
be needed in the future.
   (c)   Establishing and closing funds shall occur without needing approval
from any official of the State of Ohio or Warren County.
(Ord. 2012-80, passed 11-26-2012)
§ 137.02 APPLICATION FEE FOR ZONING CHANGES, ANNEXATION, PLAT AND OTHER
APPROVALS.
   (a)   Any applicant to Council for any zone change, annexation, plat and
other approval required of Council shall, after the effective date of this
section (Ordinance 43-1974, passed September 9, 1974), be required to deposit
with the Finance Director simultaneously with the filing of the application, a
sum of money in an amount which the Finance Director estimates will approximate
the probable cost of any engineering and legal services necessary to be
incurred in connection with the proper processing of the application. The cost
of the services shall be based upon the established standard professional fee
schedule for the services as authorized by Council.
   (b)   In the event that the actual costs of the engineering and legal
services required differ from the estimate then, upon the completion of the
professional services, the Finance Director will either rebate the excess to
the applicant or collect from the applicant the amount of any additional cost.
(Ord. 43-1974, passed 9-9-1974)
§ 137.03 FEE FOR SPECIAL MEETING OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   There shall be levied a charge for a special meeting of the Planning
Commission payable at the time of the application for the special meeting. The
fee shall be as established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One -
Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 90-110, passed 10-8-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 137.04 FINANCE TECHNICIAN; CREATION, QUALIFICATIONS AND DUTIES.
   (a)   There is hereby established the position of Finance Technician within
the Finance Department. The Finance Technician shall be appointed by the City
Manager and serve under the direction and supervision of the Finance Director.
   (b)   The prerequisite qualifications of the Finance Technician are that the
person shall possess a working knowledge of the principles and practices of
governmental accounting. Additionally, the person shall have a minimum of three
years progressive work experience in general accounting, microcomputer and/or
minicomputer accounting system operation. An associate or higher degree in a
related area may be substituted for two years of work experience.
   (c)   The duties and responsibilities of the Finance Technician shall be to
assist the Finance Director in the performance of the Finance Director’s duties
in all aspects of accounting and records management.
(Ord. 89-170, passed 12-28-1989)
§ 137.05 RESERVED.
§ 137.06 RESERVED.
§ 137.07 INVESTMENT AND DEPOSITORY POLICY.
   (a)   An Investment and Depository Policy and any future amendments are
hereby adopted by the city.
   (b)   The Investment and Depository Policy is in accordance with Exhibit A,
attached to original Ordinance 96-133, and amending ordinance, Ordinance 2020-
90, which is incorporated herein by reference.
   (c)   The Finance Director is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
copy of any amended Investment and Depository Policy to the State Auditor.
(Ord. 96-133, passed 9-23-1996; Ord. 2008-129, passed 11-24-2008; Ord. 2013-71,
passed 8-12-2013; Ord. 2020-90, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 137.08 RESERVED.
§ 137.09 FINANCE DIRECTOR TO ALLOCATE INVESTMENT INCOME.
   (a)   The Finance Director is hereby authorized to invest and deposit funds
for the city as permitted by the city’s Investment Policy. All funds received,
and income derived therefrom, are to be returned to the specific account from
which the funds received originated.
   (b)   In the event that the funds are commingled for purposes of investment,
the Finance Director is also to return a proportionate share of the income
derived from the total investment for the following funds:
      (1)   Funds that by state law require the proportionate share of
investment income;
      (2)   Funds used to account for grants requiring the proportionate share
of investment income; and
      (3)   Funds as determined by the Finance Director to properly account for
activities of the city.
   (c)   The method used to determine the proportionate share of income derived
from the total investment for each will be determined by the Finance Director.
(Ord. 2007-115, passed 8-13-2007)
§ 137.10 FINANCE CLERK.
   There is hereby created a position of Finance Clerk with the Finance
Department.
(Ord. 2000-15, passed 1-24-2000)
§ 137.11 ACCOUNT CLERK.
   There is hereby created two positions of Account Clerk with the Finance
Department.
(Ord. 99-138, passed 9-13-1999; Ord. 2003-150, passed 11-24-2003)
§ 137.12 FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   There is hereby created a position of Finance Director with the City of
Mason.
(Ord. 96-130, passed 9-9-1996)
§ 137.13 DEPUTY TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   There is hereby modified the position of Deputy Tax Administrator with the
Finance Department.
(Ord. 99-138, passed 9-13-1999)
§ 137.14 PURCHASE AUTHORITY AND CERTIFICATE OF FISCAL OFFICER.
   (a)   The city’s purchases order form will be the certificate of the fiscal
officer as required by R.C. § 5705.41. The purchase order form may be used for
all types of certificates required and shall not require additional or
different assertions for a standard, blanket, super blanket, “then and now” or
any other certificate. In order to be a valid certificate, the purchase order
must have the electronic or written approval of both the City Manager and
Finance Director. Approval may be made by their designee.
   (b)   If no certificate is furnished before a contract is made or any order
given involving the expenditure of money as required, the approved purchase
order shall substitute for a “then and now” certificate without any additional
assertion; provided that, the amount involved is less than the City Manager’s
purchasing authority amount authorized by Council under §
5.04(J)(1) of the City Charter. Any amount above the Council designated amount
will require approval by Council within 60 days after the purchase order is
issued. This would apply for any emergency purchase or contract where a
purchase is necessary due to an attack, disaster or emergency defined under
R.C. § 5502.21. An emergency would also include safeguarding city facilities or
equipment to avoid loss or negligent liability. The City Manager’s purchasing
authority limit may be suspended upon a declared attack, disaster or emergency
determined by the City Manager provided that Councilmembers are given
notification of the emergency and the need to suspend the purchasing authority
limit. The aggregate maximum amount expended on each emergency event shall not
exceed $500,000 unless authorized by Council action. Reports to Council will be
completed within 60 days after the emergency to authorize the purchase incurred
during an attack, disaster or emergency response.
   (c)   Blanket and super blanket purchase orders allowed by R.C. § 5705.41
may be extended up to 90 days after the fiscal year to pay for orders and
invoice that are paid in the current fiscal year using the appropriation of the
prior year. More than one certificate for a blanket or super blanket for a
specific line-item appropriation account may be outstanding at the same time.
(Ord. 2013-72, passed 8-12-2013)
§ 137.15 SURPLUS PROPERTY.
   (a)   The City Manager is authorized to declare personal property with an
estimate unit value of less than $1,000 to be surplus property when the
personal property is no longer needed for municipal purpose or unfit for public
use.
   (b)   The City Manager is authorized to declare personal property to be
surplus property when the cost of the replacement of personal property less the
trade-in of the surplus personal property is less than the City Manager's
purchasing authority under Section
5.04(J)(1) of the City Charter.
   (c)   The City Manager is authorized to dispose of said property and
equipment in accordance with R.C. § 721.15, which authorizes the City Manager
to sell said property, the estimated value of which is less than $1,000,
without any formal bidding procedure or to sell said personal property or
equipment that exceeds $1,000 after advertisement for not less than two nor
more than four weeks to the highest and best bidder.
   (d)   The City Manager is authorized to trade-in or donate any personal
property declared surplus by the City Manager or Council that is found to be in
the best interest of the city that the sale or donation of some obsolete or
unneeded personal property be made simultaneously with the purchase of new
replacement personal property or the donation will support a school district,
another government, or nonprofit organization that further the overall
objectives of the City of Mason.
   (e)   The City Manager is authorized to lease without advertisement for bids
or additional legislative action all residential real property managed by a
property manager, all agricultural real property and all short-term (one year
or less) rental or lease of all real or personal property. Lease or rental
payments may be determined by the City Manager and may be less than fair market
price if the reduction furthers a public or economic development objective.
(Ord. 2018-127, passed 10-22-2018)
CHAPTER 139: PLANNING DEPARTMENT
Section
139.01   Building Inspector
139.02   Graphical Information System (GIS) Manager
139.03   Facilities Manager
139.04   Stormwater engineer
139.05   Project manager
139.06   Plans examiner
139.07   Planning tech
139.08   Chief building official
139.09   Chief subdivision engineer
139.10   Secretary
139.11   Engineering tech
Charter reference:
   Conflict of interest, see Charter §
11.06
   Department created, see Charter §
6.01
   Head of department; duties and functions of department, see Charter §
6.06
Cross-reference:
   Conflict of interest, see §
525.10
§ 139.01 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   There is hereby created a position of Building Inspector with the
Engineering and Building Department.
(Ord. 98-3, passed 1-12-1998)
§ 139.02 GRAPHICAL INFORMATION SYSTEM (GIS) MANAGER.
   There is hereby created a position of GIS Manager with the Engineering and
Building Department.
(Ord. 2000-143, passed 9-25-2000)
§ 139.03 FACILITIES MANAGER.
   There is hereby created a position of Facilities Manager with the City of
Mason.
(Ord. 2002-128, passed 9-9-2002)
§ 139.04 STORMWATER ENGINEER.
   There is hereby created a position of Stormwater Engineer with the
Engineering and Building Department.
(Ord. 2001-175, passed 9-24-2001)
§ 139.05 PROJECT MANAGER.
   There is hereby created a position of Project Manager with the Engineering
and Building Department.
(Ord. 2006-07, passed 1-23-2006)
§ 139.06 PLANS EXAMINER.
   There is hereby created a position of Plans Examiner with the Engineering
and Building Department.
(Ord. 2006-08, passed 1-23-2006)
§ 139.07 PLANNING TECH.
   There is hereby created a position of Planning Tech with the Engineering and
Building Department.
(Ord. 2008-87, passed 7-14-2008)
§ 139.08 CHIEF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   There is hereby created a position of Chief Building Official with the
Engineering and Building Department.
(Ord. 95-5, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 139.09 CHIEF SUBDIVISION ENGINEER.
   There is hereby created a position of Chief Subdivision Engineer with the
Engineering and Building Department.
(Ord. 95-6, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 139.10 SECRETARY.
   There is hereby created a position of Secretary with the Engineering and
Building Department.
(Ord. 96-30, passed 2-12-1996)
§ 139.11 ENGINEERING TECH.
   There is hereby created a position of Engineering Tech with the Engineering
and Building Department.
(Ord. 96-26, passed 2-12-1996; Ord. 2002-24, passed 1-28-2002)
CHAPTER 141: SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Section
141.01    Service Department Supervisors
141.02   Public Utilities Director
141.03   Public Works Director
141.04   Service Director
141.05   Mechanic/maintenance worker
141.06   Foreman
141.07   Public Utilities Chief Operator
141.08   Maintenance worker and foreman
141.09   Secretary
141.10   Maintenance worker
141.11   Plant operator
Charter reference:
   Conflict of interest, see Charter §
11.06
   Department created, see Charter §
6.01
   Head of department; duties and functions of department, see Charter §
6.07
Cross-reference:
   Conflict of interest, see §
525.10
§ 141.01 SERVICE DEPARTMENT SUPERVISORS.
   There is hereby established the separate positions of Public Utilities
Director and Public Works Director within the Service Department. The
Supervisors shall be appointed by and serve under the direction and supervision
of the City Manager.
(Ord. 39-1981, passed 5-11-1981)
§ 141.02 PUBLIC UTILITIES DIRECTOR.
   (a)   The prerequisite qualifications of the Public Utilities Director are
that the person shall have all current and valid licenses and certificates
required by the State Environmental Protection Agency to operate the waste
water treatment plant and the water treatment plant of the city. Additionally,
the person shall have supervisory experience in one or both of the above areas.
   (b)   The duties and responsibilities of the Public Utilities Director shall
be, but not limited to, the supervision of the operation and maintenance of the
waste water and water treatment plant and all of its appurtenant equipment in
full compliance with the State Environmental Protection Agency requirements.
Additionally, the Director shall supervise maintenance of the sanitary sewers,
water mains, water taps, sewer taps and water meters and participate in the
preparation of the annual Water and Sewer Department budgets. Additionally, the
person shall train and instruct employees in all phases of the aforesaid work.
(Ord. 39-1981, passed 5-11-1981)
§ 141.03 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   (a)   The prerequisite qualifications for the Public Works Director are that
the person shall have knowledge of street maintenance and repair, as well as
knowledge about the operation and maintenance of construction equipment.
Additionally, the Public Works Director shall have supervisory experience.
   (b)   The duties and responsibilities of the Public Works Director shall be
supervision of maintenance and repair of all right-of-way improvements
including streets, sidewalks and storm sewers. The Director shall also
participate in the preparation of the annual Street Department budget and train
and instruct employees in all phases of the Department’s work.
(Ord. 39-1981, passed 5-11-1981)
§ 141.04 SERVICE DIRECTOR.
   (a)   There is hereby created the full-time position of Service Director
within the Department of Service.
   (b)   Pursuant to §
6.07 of the City Charter, the position of Service Director shall be appointed
by the City Manager either by reassignment of qualified existing city personnel
or by hiring qualified outside personnel.
(Ord. 2007-151, passed 10-22-2007)
§ 141.05 MECHANIC/MAINTENANCE WORKER.
   There is hereby created a position of mechanic/maintenance worker with the
Public Works Department.
(Ord. 96-27, passed 2-12-1996; Ord. 1998-4, passed 1-12-1998; Ord. 2003-20,
passed 2-10-2003; Ord. 2006-16, passed 2-13-2006)
§ 141.06 FOREMAN.
   There is hereby created a position of foreman with the Public Works
Department.
(Ord. 2004-62, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 141.07 PUBLIC UTILITIES CHIEF OPERATOR.
   There is hereby modified the position of Public Utilities Chief Operator in
Public Utilities Department.
(Ord. 99-44, passed 2-22-1999)
§ 141.08 MAINTENANCE WORKER AND FOREMAN.
   There is hereby created a position of maintenance worker and foreman with
the Public Utilities Department.
(Ord. 2001-32, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 141.09 SECRETARY.
   There is hereby created a position of Secretary with the Public Utilities
Department.
(Ord. 97- 13, passed 1-27-1997)
§ 141.10 MAINTENANCE WORKER.
   There is hereby created a position of maintenance worker with the Public
Utilities Department.
(Ord. 1997- 15, passed 1-27-1997)
§ 141.11 PLANT OPERATOR.
   There is hereby created a position of Plant Operator.
(Ord. 1994-29, passed 2-28-1994)
CHAPTER 143: SAFETY DEPARTMENT
Section
143.01   Creation
143.02    Duties
143.03    Private police officers
143.04   Rates for emergency medical and fire services
 Charter reference:
   Conflict of interest, see Charter §
11.06
   Department created, see Charter §
6.01
   Head of department; duties and functions of department, see Charter §
6.08
   Police Chief may serve as Safety Director, see Charter §
6.08
 Cross-reference:
   Conflict of interest, see §
525.10
§ 143.01 CREATION.
   There is hereby created the separate position of Safety Director.
(Ord. 100-1983, passed 10-10-1983)
§ 143.02 DUTIES.
   The Safety Director shall have the following powers, duties and functions as
indicated.
   (a)   General statement of duties. Performs responsible administrative work
in planning, organizing, coordinating and directing safety related activities
of the city; does related work as required.
   (b)   Distinguishing features of the class. The Safety Director is an
administrative post involving general responsibility for the Division of Police
and Fire. Requires considerable coordination between City Council, City
Manager, Police Chief and Fire Chief in planning, developing and directing a
complete safety program for the city. General responsibility is to the City
Council (Safety Committee) and the City Manager.
   (c)   Examples of work (illustrative only). Plans, directs, coordinates and
develops safety policies and programs for Division of Police and Fire (when
requested); advises City Council, Safety Committee and City Manager on issues
and situations related to the safety of the residents and businesses of the
city; reviews development programs/plans, review traffic signs, speed limits on
public roadways, for conformance with accepted safety standards; and
coordinates, develops and plans safety related programs with the Chief of
Police and Fire Chief.
   (d)   Required knowledges, skills and abilities.  Comprehensive and detailed
knowledge of general laws and administrative policies regarding municipal
safety issues, personnel and planning. Knowledge of police and fire
administration, ability to maintain cooperative relationships with city
officials and the general public. Requires good judgment, intelligence and good
physical condition.
   (e)   Acceptable experience and training.  Graduation from an accredited
college or university in public or police administration or any equivalent
combination of experience and formal training which provides the required
knowledge, skills and abilities.
(Ord. 100-1983, passed 10-10-1983)
§ 143.03 PRIVATE POLICE OFFICERS.
   (a)   The Safety Director is hereby authorized to publicly commission
private police officers.
   (b)   The Safety Director shall only commission those private police
officers who would otherwise meet the qualifications for a police officer
established and maintained by the state. The Director may further require each
publicly commissioned police officer to meet the same annual requirements for
training and education as the city’s police officers.
   (c)   The Safety Director shall have full authority to revoke any
commission.
   (d)   A publicly commissioned private police officer shall not be on the
classified list of the Police Department, shall not receive any compensation
from the city and shall not be an employee of the city.
   (e)   A publicly commissioned private police officer shall have all the
powers and exercise all the duties provided by law for police officers in
preserving the peace, protecting persons and property, and obeying and
enforcing all criminal laws of the state. These powers include, but are not
limited to, the power to arrest a person, with or without a warrant, committing
a crime in the officer’s presence.
(Ord. 95-133, passed 11-13-1995)
§ 143.04 RATES FOR EMERGENCY MEDICAL AND FIRE SERVICES.
   (a)   There are hereby established rates and fees for emergency medical and
fire services. The rates and fees shall be as established and set forth in the
fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven, Chapter 205 of these codified
ordinances.
   (b)   Beginning January 1, 2012, the rates and fees established by this
section shall be adjusted, effective January 1 of each year, by a cost of
living factor to be determined by Council on an annual basis. The adjusted
rates and fees shall be provided to any billing company or service as deemed
necessary by the Safety Director.
CHAPTER 145: POLICE DIVISION
Section
145.01   School crossing guards
145.02   Off-duty employment
145.03   Court time
145.04   Auxiliary police officers
145.05   Age of original appointees
145.06   Personnel
145.07   Police Department fees
145.08   Police officers
145.09   Secretary
145.10   Police Clerk
145.11   Police records and clerical supervisor
145.12   Full-time security
145.13   Sergeant
145.14   Lieutenant
145.15   Assistant Police Chief
Charter reference:
   Conflict of interest, see Charter §
11.06
Cross-reference:
   Conflict of interest, see §
525.10
   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer, see §
525.06
   Impersonating a public official, see §
525.03
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of emergency patrolmen, see R.C. § 737.10
   Auxiliary police unit, see R.C. §§ 737.051, 737.06
   Civil service application, see R.C. §§ 737.051, 737.10, 737.11
   Composition and control, see R.C. §§ 715.05, 737.05
   General duties, see R.C. § 737.11
   Hours and leave, see R.C. § 737.07
   Police and Firemen’s Disability and Pension Fund, see R.C. Ch. 742
   Police chief, see R.C. § 737.06
   Police officer may arrest on view, see R.C. §§ 2935.03, 2935.05, 2935.07
   Police protection contracts, see R.C. §§ 505.43, 737.04
   Recovered property and disposition, see R.C. §§ 737.29 et seq.
§ 145.01 SCHOOL CROSSING GUARDS.
   There is hereby established the position of school crossing guard. The
number of school crossing guards shall be determined by Council. The duties of
school crossing guards are to direct traffic and assist children and others in
crossing streets safely. School crossing guards shall be appointed by the
Safety Director, with approval by the City Manager, and they shall perform
their duties at the locations prescribed by the Safety Director, and shall
serve at the pleasure of the City Manager.
§ 145.02 OFF-DUTY EMPLOYMENT.
   All off-duty employment of police personnel shall be in compliance with the
City Police Division Rules and Regulations as are established by the Personnel
Director with the approval of the Personnel Review Board.
(Ord. 47-1979, passed 4-23-1979)
§ 145.03 COURT TIME.
   Any police officer, except the Chief of Police, who is required to appear in
Municipal Court when not on regular scheduled duty, shall be paid at his or her
regular rate of pay.
(Ord. 23-1975, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 145.04 AUXILIARY POLICE OFFICERS.
   (a)   There is hereby created the position of auxiliary police officer who
shall be appointed by the City Manager as herein provided, and shall serve
under the Safety Director’s direction.
   (b)   An auxiliary police officer shall be compensated at the rate of $12
per annum. For special duty work, an auxiliary police officer shall be
compensated as provided by ordinance of Council.
   (c)   To be qualified for appointment to the position of auxiliary police
officer under division (a) hereof, an applicant must:
      (1)   Be a citizen of the United Sates and reside within a reasonable
distance from city as determined by the Safety Director;
      (2)   Have attained the age of 21 years;
      (3)   Have a valid Ohio driver’s license;
      (4)   Submit to and successfully complete the following tests as
requested or required:
         A.   Physical examination, including eye test;
         B.   Written examination and searching oral examination administered
by the Personnel Director and Safety Director and supervised by the Personnel
Review Board;
         C.   Personal background investi- gation;
         D.   Polygraph test; and
         E.   Psychological profile.
      (5)   Not be affiliated with the sale or distribution of beer, wine or
intoxicating beverages; and
      (6)   Be a person of high moral character.
   (d)   Each appointee to the position of auxiliary police officer shall serve
a probationary period of one year, during which time the auxiliary police
officer must fulfill further requirements established by regulations
promulgated by the Safety Director and approved by Council. The chain of
command for auxiliary police officers is established as follows:
      (1)   Safety Director;
      (2)   Chief of Police;
      (3)   Direct command of the Sergeant designated by the Safety Director to
be in charge of the auxiliary police officer; and
      (4)   The ranking police officer on duty.
   (e)   The Safety Director is authorized and directed to promulgate and
submit for the approval of Council all regulations as provided in this section.
   (f)   The number of auxiliary police officer positions created by this
section shall be ten. The City Manager shall make the appointments from among
qualified applicants within a reasonable time after the approval of Council of
the regulations to be promulgated in accordance with this section. The City
Manager shall have the power to fill permanent vacancies by appointment.
(Ord. 5-1984, passed 1-23-1984)
§ 145.05 AGE OF ORIGINAL APPOINTEES.
   A qualified person who is 21 years of age or older may receive an original
appointment to the Police Division of the city.
(Ord. 46-1985, passed 7-8-1985)
§ 145.06 PERSONNEL.
   The Police Division shall consist of the personnel as Council shall provide
from time to time.
§ 145.07 POLICE DEPARTMENT FEES.
   The Police Department will charge fees for its services. The fees shall be
as established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fees shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 99-58, passed 4-12-1999)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 145.08 POLICE OFFICERS.
   The City of Mason hereby creates thirty- three (33) police officer positions
with the City of Mason Police Department.
(Ord. 94-7, passed 2-28-1994; Ord. 97-12, passed 1-27-1997; Ord. 99-10, passed
1-11-1999; Ord. 2000-67, passed 5-22-2000; Ord. 2001-30, passed 2-12-2001; Ord.
2001-192, passed 11-12-2001; Ord. 2002-22, passed 1-28-2002; Ord. 2002-158,
passed 12-9-2002; Ord. 2005-150, passed 11-28-2005; Ord. 2007-08, passed 1-08-
2007; Ord. 2008-03, passed 1-14-2008; Ord. 2015-119, passed 11-23-2015; Ord.
2018-91, passed 7-9- 2018)
§ 145.09 SECRETARY.
   This hereby creates one (1) position of Secretary with the City of Mason
Police Department.
(Ord. 2002-23, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 145.10 POLICE CLERK.
   Three (3) positions of Police Clerk are created for the City of Mason Police
Department.
(Ord. 96-29, passed 2-12-1996; Ord. 2001-31, passed 2-12-2001; Ord. 2007-07,
passed 1-8-2007)
§ 145.11 POLICE RECORDS AND CLERICAL SUPERVISOR.
   The City of Mason Police Department shall have one (1) position titled
police records and clerical supervisor.
(Ord. 2006-09, passed 1-23-2006)
§ 145.12 FULL-TIME SECURITY.
   There is hereby created two (2) full-time security positions with the City
of Mason Police Department.
(Ord. 2005-122, passed 10-10-2005)
§ 145.13 SERGEANT.
   There is hereby created five (5) positions of Sergeant with the City of
Mason Police Department.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 1-11-2010; Ord. 2018-91, passed 7-9-2018)
§ 145.14 LIEUTENANT.
   There is hereby created four (4) positions of Lieutenant with the City of
Mason Police Department.
(Ord. 2009-117, passed 10-26-2009)
§ 145.15 ASSISTANT POLICE CHIEF.
   The City of Mason Police Department shall have two (2) positions of
Assistant Police Chief.
(Ord. 2009-90, passed 8-17-2009)
CHAPTER 147: DEPARTMENT OF FIRE
Section
147.01   Establishment; composition
147.02   Compensation
147.03   Part-time firefighter/paramedic; part- time firefighter/EMT
147.04   Appointment of part-time employees
147.05   Appointment of Fire Prevention Officers
147.06   Staffing fire stations
147.07   Incentive plan fund
147.08   Campus Security Program
Cross-reference:
   Ohio Fire Code, see
Ch. 1501
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of emergency firemen, see R.C. § 737.10
   Fire protection contracts, see R.C. §§ 307.05, 505.44, 717.02
§ 147.01 ESTABLISHMENT; COMPOSITION.
   (a)   That the City of Mason Fire Department has been duly established by
City Council in accordance with the City Charter and shall be comprised of the
following full-time positions and shall not exceed the number of persons so
designated:
 
Fire Chief            1
Deputy Fire Chief     5
Fire Safety Inspector 1
Fire Lieutenant       6
Firefighter/Paramedic 42
Resource Technician   1
 
   (b)   That the City Manager or designee has the discretion from time to time
to hire Firefighter/EMT positions to assist with staffing and the development
of Paramedics. The understanding is those hired in under this title will obtain
their Paramedic certification within 3 years and be eligible for a Firefighter/
Paramedic position. But, in no such time shall current contingency of
Firefighter/ Paramedic/EMT positions exceed a total of 42 full-time personnel
for the department.
(Ord. 2018-18, passed 2-12-2018; Ord. 2018-91, passed 7-9-2018; Ord. 2022-12,
passed 1-10-2022)
§ 147.02 COMPENSATION.
   (a)   That the compensation of the Fire Chief, Deputy Fire Chiefs, and
Secretary shall be fixed in accordance with the ordinances of City Council as
may be passed from time to time.
   (b)   That all other full-time certificated positions within the Fire
Department shall be compensated in accordance with the collective bargaining
agreement between the City of Mason and Mason Professional Fire Fighters, IAFF
Local 4049.
(Ord. 2018-18, passed 2-12-2018; Ord. 2022-12, passed 1-10-2022)
§ 147.03 PART-TIME FIREFIGHTER/ PARAMEDIC; PART-TIME FIREFIGHTER/ EMT.
   That there is hereby created the position of Part-Time Firefighter/
Paramedic, Part-Time Firefighter/EMT. That said position shall be compensated
in accordance with the ordinances of City Council that may be passed from time
to time.
(Ord. 2018-18, passed 2-12-2018; Ord. 2022-12, passed 1-10-2022)
§ 147.04 APPOINTMENT OF PART-TIME EMPLOYEES.
   That the Fire Chief may, with the approval of the Safety Director, or the
City Manager, appoint as many Part-Time employees as is deemed necessary to
assure that a full complement of on-duty personnel are available at all times.
(Ord. 2018-18, passed 2-12-2018; Ord. 2022-12, passed 1-10-2022)
§ 147.05 APPOINTMENT OF FIRE PREVENTION OFFICERS.
   That the Safety Director may appoint as many Fire Prevention Officers as is
deemed necessary for a specific purpose to assure a complement of personnel for
the safety of the public. Appointments are for a specific amount of time, not
to exceed 1 year, and shall not receive any compensation from the City of
Mason.
(Ord. 2018-18, passed 2-12-2018; Ord. 2022-12, passed 1-10-2022)
§ 147.06 STAFFING FIRE STATIONS.
   That the Fire Chief shall, subject to the approval of the Safety Director or
the City Manager, establish the normal daily staffing complement of the fire
stations. That the City Manager may authorize or direct the modification of the
daily staffing complement. That the City Manager, Fire Chief or on-duty
Supervisor may call in additional personnel to meet an emergency service need.
Nothing in this Ordinance requires the City, or the Fire Department, to employ,
assign, or staff a minimum number of personnel.
(Ord. 2018-18, passed 2-12-2018; Ord. 2022-12, passed 1-10-2022)
§ 147.07 INCENTIVE PLAN FUND.
   (a)   That the City Manager shall be authorized to establish and maintain an
incentive plan fund from which he may pay Regular Part-Time employees an
attendance bonus and grant paid time off as follows:
      (1)   Upon completion of a six month period of working the regular as set
shift rotation without an absence, a payment equal to $.50 for each hour worked
during the six month period, to be paid within thirty days after the end of the
six month period.
      (2)   Upon completion of a second and third consecutive six month period,
of working the regular shift rotation without an absence, a payment equal to
$1.00 for each hour worked during the six month period, and an award of twenty-
four (24) hours of paid time off which, when used thereafter, shall not be
deemed an absence for purposes of eligibility for the attendance bonus.
      (3)   Upon completion of a fourth consecutive six month period, and for
each consecutive six month period thereafter, of working the regular shift
rotation without an absence, a payment equal to $1.50 for each hour worked
during the six month period, and an award of forty-eight (48) hours of paid
time off which, when used thereafter, shall not be deemed an absence for
purposes of eligibility for the attendance bonus.
   (b)   The City Manager shall establish any policy necessary to implement
this Section.
(Ord. 2018-18, passed 2-12-2018; Ord. 2022-12, passed 1-10-2022)
§ 147.08 CAMPUS SECURITY PROGRAM.
   That the fire department will support the Campus Security Program in
accordance with Ordinance 2017-23.
(Ord. 2022-12, passed 1-10-2022)
CHAPTER 149: INSPECTION AND ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
Section
149.01   Engineering Technician; creation, qualifications and duties
149.02   Planning technician
Charter reference:
   Conflict of interest, see Charter §
11.06
   Department created, see Charter §
6.01
   Head of department; duties and functions of department, see Charter §
6.09
Cross-reference:
   Conflict of interest, see §
525.10
§ 149.01 ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN; CREATION, QUALIFICATIONS AND DUTIES.
   (a)   There is hereby established the position of Engineering Technician
within the Inspection and Engineering Department. The Engineering Technician
shall be appointed by the City Manager and serve under the direction and
supervision of the City Engineer.
   (b)   The prerequisite qualifications of the Engineering Technician are that
the person shall possess a thorough knowledge of the principles and practices
of land surveying, and of the elementary principles and practices of civil
engineering. The individual shall also have considerable experience in sub-
professional civil engineering work, at the level of Construction Inspector or
higher.
   (c)   The duties and responsibilities of the Engineering Technician shall be
to assist the City Engineer in the performance of the Engineer’s duties. The
Engineering Technician shall also enforce city planning, construction and
zoning codes.
(Ord. 89-169, passed 12-28-1989)
§ 149.02 PLANNING TECHNICIAN.
   (a)   The position of Downtown and Small Business Coordinator in the city is
hereby eliminated.
   (b)   There is hereby created the position of Planning Technician in the
Engineering and Building Department in the city.
   (c)   The position of Planning Technician shall be a full-time position in
the complement of the Engineering and Building Department.
(Ord. 2008-87, passed 7-14-2008)
CHAPTER 151: PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
Section
151.01   Director of Parks and Recreation
151.02   Maintenance worker in Parks and Recreation Department
151.03   Recreation worker
151.04   Secretary
151.05   Assistant Aquatic Supervisor
151.06   Part-time recreation employees
151.07   Community Center Manager
151.08   Recreation Supervisor
151.09   Maintenance Supervisor
151.10   Aquatics Supervisor, Assistant Community Center Manager, Senior Center
Supervisor, Fitness/Sports Supervisor, Assistant Aquatics Supervisor, Front
Desk Manager, Recreation Supervisor and Finance Clerk
Charter reference:
   Conflict of interest, see Charter §
11.06
   Department created, see Charter §
6.01
   Head of department; duties and functions of department, see Charter §
6.10
   Park and Recreation Board, see Charter §
7.06
Cross-reference:
   Conflict of interest, see §
525.10
§ 151.01 DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (a)   In accordance with the provisions of §
6.10 of the City Charter, there is hereby created the full-time position of
Director of Parks and Recreation, the holder of which is to serve as head of
the Department of Parks and Recreation and shall be appointed by the Manager
and serve under his or her direction.
(Ord. 86-37, passed 4-14-1986)
   (b)   The duties of the Director of Parks and Recreation shall be as
outlined in Exhibit A, attached to the original Ordinance 33-1973 and made a
part thereof.
(Ord. 33-1973, passed 3-26-1973)
§ 151.02 MAINTENANCE WORKER IN PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT.
   (a)   There is hereby created the position of maintenance worker in the
Parks and Recreation Department in the city.
   (b)   The position of maintenance worker shall be a full-time position in
the complement of the Parks and Recreation Department.
(Ord. 2002-33, passed 2-11-2002; Ord. 2006-17, passed 2-13-2006; Ord. 2008-14,
passed 2-11-2008)
§ 151.03 RECREATION WORKER.
   There is hereby created a position of Recreation Worker with the Parks
Department.
(Ord. 96-28, passed 2-12-1996)
§ 151.04 SECRETARY.
   There is hereby created a position of Secretary with the Parks and
Recreation Department.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 1-12-1998)
§ 151.05 ASSISTANT AQUATIC SUPERVISOR.
   There is hereby created a position of Assistant Aquatic Supervisor with the
Parks and Recreation Department.
(Ord. 2003-93, passed 7-28-2003)
§ 151.06 PART-TIME RECREATION EMPLOYEES.
   There is hereby created positions of part-time Recreation Employees with the
Parks and Recreation Department.
(Ord. 2002-119, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 151.07 COMMUNITY CENTER MANAGER.
   There is hereby created a position of Community Center Manager with the City
of Mason.
(Ord. 2001-131, passed 7-23-2001)
§ 151.08 RECREATION SUPERVISOR.
   There is hereby created a position of Recreation Supervisor with the Parks
Department.
(Ord. 2000-7, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 2007-22, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 151.09 MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR.
   There is hereby created a position of Maintenance Supervisor with the Parks
Department.
(Ord. 2000-8, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 151.10 AQUATICS SUPERVISOR, ASSISTANT COMMUNITY CENTER MANAGER, SENIOR CENTER
SUPERVISOR, FITNESS/SPORTS SUPERVISOR, ASSISTANT AQUATICS SUPERVISOR, FRONT
DESK MANAGER, RECREATION SUPERVISOR AND FINANCE CLERK.
   There is hereby created the positions of Aquatics Supervisor, Assistant
Community Center Manager, Senior Center Supervisor, Fitness/Sports Supervisor,
Assistant Aquatics Supervisor, Front Desk Manager, Recreation Supervisor and
Finance Clerk with the Parks and Recreation Department.
(Ord. 2001-218, passed 12-7-2001)
CHAPTER 153: PERSONNEL DEPARTMENT
Editor’s note:
   There are no sections in Chapter 153. This chapter has been established to
provide a place for cross-references and any future legislation.
Charter reference:
   Conflict of interest, see Charter §
11.06
   Department created, see Charter §
6.01
   Head of department; duties and functions of department, see Charter §
6.11
Cross-reference:
   Conflict of interest, see §
525.10
   General employment provisions, see
Ch. 165
CHAPTER 155: PLANNING COMMISSION
Editor’s note:
   There are no sections in Chapter 155. This chapter has been established to
provide a place for cross-references and any future legislation.
Charter reference:
   Commission created; membership, see Charter §
7.01
   Conflict of interest, see Charter §
11.06
   Eligibility, see Charter §§ 7.11, 7.13
   Organization; meetings, see Charter §
7.11
   Powers and duties, see Charter §
7.02
   Recommends action on zoning ordinances, see Charter §
4.13
   Removal, see Charter §
11.04
   Vacancy, see Charter §
7.12
Cross-reference:
   Conflict of interest, see §
525.10
   Fee for special meeting, see §§
137.03,
205.01
CHAPTER 157: ZONING, HOUSING AND BUILDING APPEALS BOARD
Editor’s note:
   There are no sections in Chapter 157. This chapter has been established to
provide a place for cross-references and any future legislation.
Charter reference:
   Board created; membership, see Charter §
7.03
   Conflict of interest, see Charter §
11.06
   Eligibility, see Charter §§ 7.11, 7.13
   Organization; meetings, see Charter §
7.11
   Powers and duties, see Charter §
7.04
   Removal, see Charter §
11.04
   Vacancy, see Charter §
7.12
Cross-reference:
   Conflict of interest, see §
525.10
CHAPTER 159: PARK AND RECREATION BOARD
Editor’s note:
   There are no sections in Chapter 159. This chapter has been established to
provide a place for cross-references and any future legislation.
Charter reference:
   Board created; membership, see Charter §
7.05
   Conflict of interest, see Charter §
11.06
   Eligibility, see Charter §§ 7.11,
7.13
   Organization; meetings, see Charter §
7.11
   Powers and duties, see Charter §
7.06
   Removal, see Charter §
11.04
   Vacancy, see Charter §
7.12
Cross-reference:
   Conflict of interest, see §
525.10
Statutory reference:
   Bonds for recreational facilities, see R.C. § 755.17
   Tax levy, see R.C. § 5705.19 (H)
CHAPTER 161: PERSONNEL REVIEW BOARD
Editor’s note:
   There are no sections in Chapter 161. This chapter has been established to
provide a place for cross-references and future legislation.
Charter reference:
   Board created; membership, see Charter §
7.07
   Conflict of interest, see Charter §
11.06
   Eligibility, see Charter §§ 7.11,
7.13
   Merit system; classified and unclassified service, see Charter §
7.08
   Organization; meetings, see Charter §
7.11
   Powers and duties, see Charter §
7.09
   Removal, see Charter §
11.04
   Vacancy, see Charter §
7.12
Cross-reference:
   Conflict of interest, see §
525.10
   General employment provisions, see
Ch. 165
CHAPTER 163: BOARD OF HEALTH
Editor’s note:
   The city has contracted with the Warren County Advisory Health Council and
the Cities of Lebanon and Franklin, Ohio, to establish a union to be known as
the Warren County Combined Health District pursuant to the authority granted
under R.C. § 3709.07.
   There are no sections in Chapter 163. This chapter has been established to
provide a place for cross-references and any future legislation.
Statutory reference:
   Composition, term, vacancies and quorum, see R.C. §§ 3709.02 et seq.
   Contracts with other cities or general health district to furnish services,
see R.C. § 3709.08
   Enforcement of orders, see R.C. §§ 3707.02, 3707.48 et seq., 3707.99
   General duties, see R.C. §§ 3709.22 et seq., 3709.36
   Orders, regulations and emergency measures, see R.C. § 3709.21
   Organization; appointment of Health Commissioner; duties, see R.C. § 3709.11
   Power to abate nuisances, see R.C. § 715.44
   Power to provide for public health, see R.C. § 715.37
   Powers and nuisances, see R.C. §§ 3707.01 et seq., 3709.36
   Quarantine and communicable diseases, see R.C. §§ 3707.04 et seq.
   Rabies quarantine, see R.C. § 955.26
   Record of proceedings and diseases, see R.C. § 3709.19
   Union with city or other general health district, see R.C. §§ 3709.07,
3709.10
CHAPTER 165: GENERAL EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES
Section
165.01   Administration, adoption and purpose
165.02   Classification of employees; probation period
165.03   Holidays
165.04   Employee compensation
165.05   Insurance
165.06   Work hours
165.07   Vacation
165.08   Leave of absence
165.09   Pay during periods of absence/personal business
165.10   Policies and procedures
165.11   Use of city equipment
165.12   Uniforms
165.13   Physical examinations
165.14   Pre-employment investigation
165.15   Nonsalary remuneration
165.16   Legal defense expenses
165.17   Medical insurance benefits prescription card
165.18   Employee of year awards; recipients to receive cash bonus
165.19   City Manager and Assistant pick-up plan
165.20   Pick-up plan for members of Police and Fire Disability and Pension
Fund or PERS
165.21   Pick-up plan for department heads and Clerk
165.22   Pay increases; annual merit increase consideration
165.23   Residency requirements prohibited; exceptions
165.24   Employee incentive/retention programs
Charter reference:
   Conflict of interest, see Charter §
11.06
   Merit system; classified and unclassified service, see Charter §
7.08
   Personnel Department, see Charter §
6.11
   Personnel Review Board, see Charter §
7.07
Cross-reference:
   Conflict of interest, see §
525.10
Statutory reference:
   Expenses for attendance at conference or convention, see R.C. § 733.79
   Public Employees Retirement System, see R.C. Ch. 145
   Strikes by public employees, see R.C. Ch. 4117
   Welfare, see Ohio Const., Art. II, § 34
§ 165.01 ADMINISTRATION, ADOPTION AND PURPOSE.
   (a)   The City Manager shall be charged with applying the provisions of this
chapter to provide for the orderly conduct of dealing effectively with the
employees of the city in its pursuit to serve its citizens efficiently.
   (b)   The following provisions of this chapter are hereby adopted and
enacted as part of the Administrative Code of the city.
   (c)   The intention of Council in establishing the provisions of this
chapter is to provide for employees’ benefits and responsibilities in order to
promote better development of services to the public.
(Ord. 94-48, passed 4-25-1994)
§ 165.02 CLASSIFICATION OF EMPLOYEES; PROBATION PERIOD.
   (a)   Following are the individual positions established by City Council, in
addition to those positions required by the Charter (i.e., City Manager,
Finance Director, Law Director and Clerk of Council):
Position
Position
Secretary
Receptionist
Finance Assistant
Police Clerk
ED Technician
HR Technician
Finance Technician
Court Security Officer
Administrative Secretary
Sales and Marketing Supervisor
Police Records & Clerical Supervisor
Accounting Supervisor
Tax Supervisor
Administrative Assistant
Planning Technician
Head Age Group Coach
Engineer Technician
Group Fitness Supervisor
Program Supervisor
Wellness Supervisor
Fleet Manager
Public Works Foreman
Project Coordinator
Building Inspectors
Park Maintenance Worker
Utility Maintenance Foreman
Park Maintenance Supervisor
Head Coach
IT Technician
Subdivision Engineer
Storm Water Engineer
Systems Analysis
Business Manager
Program Manager
Sales and Marketing Manager
Assistant Finance Director
Strategic Planner and Economic Manager
Economic Development Manager
Public Information Officer
Utility Project Inspector
Project Manager
City Planner
Asst. Utility Director
Plans Examiner
Facility Maintenance Manager
Assistant City Engineer
Parks & Rec. Director
Finance Director
IT Manager
Human Resources Director
Chief Building Official
Public Works Director
City Engineer
Economic Development Director
Public Utilities Director
Deputy Fire Chief
Asst. Police Chief
Assistant City Manager
Fire Chief
Police Chief
Service Director
 
   (b)   City employees are classified as follows:
      (1)   Regular full-time. An employee hired for and scheduled to work 40
hours per week, 52 weeks per year and subject to PERS or P. & F.P.F.
      (2)   Regular part-time. Employees hired for and scheduled to work less
than eight hours per day and/or less than 29 hours per week and subject to PERS
or P. & F.P.F.
      (3)   Temporary, intern or seasonal. An employee hired for a specific job
and usually for a short or limited duration of time and subject to PERS.
      (4)   Part-time recreation. Employees hired to work as needed to fill
irregular, periodic and/or ongoing operating/program schedule. These employees
are to be under PERS, but not eligible for sick, holiday, vacation or medical
insurance benefits and are subject to PERS. Nothing requires the city to
employ, maintain or schedule a minimum number of regular part-time personnel.
      (5)   Regular part-time fire. Employees hired for and scheduled to fill a
regular three-day shift rotation in the Fire Department. These employees are
not eligible for sick, holiday, vacation or medical insurance benefits and fall
under Social Security. Nothing requires the city to employ, maintain or
schedule a minimum number of regular part-time Fire personnel.
      (6)   As needed fill-in part-time fire. Employees hired to work as needed
to fill irregular, periodic and/or other vacancies in the Fire Department’s
daily schedule. These employees are not eligible for sick, holiday, vacation or
medical insurance benefits and fall under Social Security. Nothing requires the
city to employ, maintain or schedule a minimum number of regular part-time Fire
personnel.
   (c)   An employee can be part time and temporary.
   (d)   Regular full-time, regular part-time, part-time recreation, regular
part-time fire and as needed fill-in part-time fire employees are on probation
for a period of six (6) months up to one (1) year from the date hired. The City
Manager may extend an employee’s probationary period for up to one additional
year or place an employee who has previously completed a probationary period on
special probation for a period of up to one year in the interest of improving
the work performance of the employee.
(Ord. 94-48, passed 4-25-1994; Ord. 2002-119, passed 8-26-2002; Ord. 2003-117,
passed 10-13-2003; Ord. 2004-49, passed 4-12-2004; Ord. 2004-62, passed 5-10-
2004)
§ 165.03 HOLIDAYS.
   (a)   (1)   The following shall constitute legal holidays for all regular
full-time employees of the city:
         A.   New Year’s Day;
         B.   Presidents’ Day;
         C.   Good Friday;
         D.   Memorial Day;
         E.   Independence Day;
         F.   Labor Day;
         G.   Thanksgiving Day;
         H.   Day after Thanksgiving;
         I.   Christmas Eve Day; and
         J.   Christmas Day.
      (2)   A.   When any of the above holidays fall on Saturday, they will be
observed on the preceding Friday. When any of the above holidays fall on
Sunday, they will be observed on the following Monday. The City Manager is
authorized to reconcile any conflicts with the above or to make appropriate
substitutions.
         B.   Regular full-time employees shall receive a full day’s pay for
each holiday set forth above.
         C.   Regular part-time employees shall be paid time and one-half for
hours worked on the designated city holiday.
   (b)   Should any of the holidays fall during the scheduled vacation of an
employee, he or she shall receive an additional day of vacation.
   (c)   An employee may be required, by schedule, to work on any of the above
holidays The department head, may approve for any employee under his or her
supervision, compensatory time off in lieu of holiday pay unless directed
otherwise by the City Manager.
   (d)   To qualify for holiday pay the employee must work the day before and
the day after the holiday or have an acceptable excuse for being off and he or
she must have his or her department head’s approval.
   (e)   Illness occurring on a holiday counts as a holiday and is not charged
against sick leave.
   (f)   Special holidays of a religious nature may be allowed without pay at
the discretion of the City Manager upon advance request of the individual
employee. Reasonable effort should be made to accommodate the requests.
   (g)   Holidays occurring during a formal unpaid leave of absence are without
pay.
(Ord. 94-48, passed 4-25-1994; Ord. 00-105, passed 7-24-2000; Ord. 2003-117,
passed 10-13-2003; Ord. 2009-41, passed 4-27-2009)
§ 165.04 EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION.
   (a)   Generally. The compensation of employees of the city is fixed in pay
ranges which are set by ordinance and generally reviewed annually. The
assignment of employees to levels within the ranges is within the discretion of
the City Manager guided by pay plans and collective bargaining agreements as
Council may approve from time to time.
(Ord. 94-48, passed 4-25-1994)
   (b)   Deferred compensation. The City Manager and Assistant City Manager are
provided the additional benefit of a contribution to the Aetna Life and Annuity
Company Deferred Compensation Plan in the amount of $1 for each $1 contribution
made by the employee, in an amount not to exceed a total of $3,750 per year for
each employee.
(Ord. 96-77, passed 6-24-1996)
§ 165.05 INSURANCE.
   (a)   All regular full-time employees, except those covered under collective
bargaining agreements, and the Judge of the Mason Municipal Court, are covered
by the following medical and life insurance program provided for employees of
the city.
      (1)   Medical insurance for employees and dependent.
         A.   Medical insurance for each eligible employee and eligible
dependents of the employee will be provided. The amounts and method of coverage
will be determined by Council.
         B.   1.   The City Manager hereby is authorized to enter into a
contract to provide medical insurance benefits to all part-time and temporary
employees of the city.
            2.   The medical insurance benefits will be as generally outlined
in the attached Exhibit A, attached to original Ordinance 2007-158 which is
incorporated herein by reference.
            3.   All part-time and temporary employees of the city desiring to
obtain medical insurance benefits shall be solely responsible for all costs of
premiums of the medical insurance benefits.
      (2)   Life insurance. 
         A.   Effective January 1, 2005, $50,000 death benefit with accidental
death and dismemberment provisions or endorsement as may be attached thereto,
for all covered employees except as provided in B. below.
         B.   Effective January 1, 2005, $100,000 death benefit with accidental
death and dismemberment provisions or endorsement as may be attached thereto
for the City Manager, Assistant City Manager and all Department Heads.
         C.   Twenty-five thousand dollars death benefit with accidental death
and dismemberment provisions or endorsement as may be attached thereto,
effective until January 1, 2005, for non-represented, non-administrative
employees, and $50,000 for the City Manager, Assistant City Manager and all
department heads effective until January 1, 2005.
      (3)   Dental insurance. Dental insurance for each eligible employee and
eligible dependents of the employee will be provided. The amounts and method of
coverage will be determined by Council.
      (4)   Supplemental psychological counseling benefits. Supplemental
psychological counseling benefits.
      (5)   Optical insurance. Optical insurance for each eligible employee and
eligible dependents of the employee will be provided. The amounts and method of
coverage will be determined by Council.
      (6)   Disability insurance. Disability insurance for each eligible
employee will be provided. The amounts and method of coverage will be
determined by Council.
   (b)   New employees are eligible to receive these benefits after completion
of 30 days’ employment.
(Ord. 94-48, passed 4-25-1994; Ord. 2004-106, passed 8-9-2004; Ord. 2007-158,
passed 11-12-2007)
§ 165.06 WORK HOURS.
   (a)   Work week.
      (1)   For all employees who are not included in division (a)(2) below,
the work week shall consist of seven calendar days beginning at 12:01 a.m. on
Sunday and ending at midnight on Saturday. During the work week, regular full-
time employees shall normally be scheduled to work 40 hours and, generally, the
40 hours will be scheduled over five days. However, for reasons of efficiency
and effectiveness, the City Manager may adjust work schedules.
      (2)   Full-time fire suppression and/or emergency medical service
employees who work the tour system, as designated by the City Manager, shall
normally work 24 hours followed by 48 hours off (24/48) over a 28-day work
period. The schedule may be adjusted with a periodic off day so as to limit the
number of hours of work to 212 in the 28-day work period.
   (b)   Overtime.
      (1)   Classified employees. Overtime is accrued for classified employees
who are non-exempt from the FLSA and not otherwise covered by a collective
bargaining agreement.
      (2)   Calculation of overtime; compensatory time. Each employee
identified in division (b)(1) hereof, except as elsewhere provided for, shall
receive overtime compensation calculated at one and one-half times the
employee’s calculated hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of eight hours
worked in a work day or in excess of 40 hours worked in a work week. The
department head, with the consent of the City Manager, may approve, for any
employee under his or her supervision, compensatory time off in lieu of
overtime pay provided that the compensatory time is used within the same work
week in which it accrues. However, for employees subject to the Fair Labor
Standards Act for whom a work period longer than the work week may be used in
computing overtime compensation, compensatory time may be approved for overtime
hours worked up to the maximum number of hours worked per work period as
established under the Fair Labor Standards Act. Compensatory time, when
approved, shall be granted at the rate of one and one-half hours for each
overtime hour worked. Compensatory time can only be scheduled and used with the
prior approval of the department head and shall be taken in increments as the
department head shall authorize. Hours in attendance at seminars or training
shall not be counted as hours worked for purposes of this section unless the
seminars or training is required by the city.
      (3)   Scheduled overtime. For all work in excess of eight hours per work
day overtime shall appear on the employee’s timesheet. This shall not preclude
the City Manager from limiting or otherwise directing the department head in
authorizing overtime.
      (4)   Emergency overtime. Emergency overtime may be authorized by the
department head or the City Manager. In all cases the reasons for emergency
overtime shall appear on the employee’s timesheet. The City Manager has the
authority to authorize emergency overtime work and payment for emergency
services for employees other than those listed in division (b)(1) hereof,
except that in no case shall payment for overtime work be made to the
department or division heads unless specifically authorized by Council.
      (5)   Overtime analysis. No later than one week following the close of a
pay period, the City Manager shall prepare and forward to Council an analysis
of all overtime worked in that pay period. The analysis shall show the
department and/or division in which the overtime was worked, the specific
reasons for the overtime, the number of persons who worked overtime and their
positions, the number of hours of overtime per person, the overtime cost per
person, the overtime cost per department and/or division, and the overall
overtime cost for that pay period. Overtime cost shall be computed as described
in division (b)(2) hereof, and shall be shown regardless of whether
compensatory time is taken or wages paid.
(Ord. 00-105, passed 7-24-2000)
§ 165.07 VACATION.
   (a)   On or before January 1, 2001, each employee employed as of that date
will receive a vacation credit of 6.67 hours for each month in which the member
was employed by the city prior to January 1 of the year following the year in
which the employee was hired. For example: Employee hired in July shall be
credited for six months and receive 40 hours of vacation; a member hired in
January shall be credited for 12 months and receive 80 hours of vacation.
Effective January 1, 2001, and thereafter, employees shall accrue vacation in
each bi-weekly period.
   (b)   All regular full-time employees who work a 40-hour week shall receive
paid vacation as follows:
      (1)   After the first six months, 40 hours;
      (2)   Thereafter, the employee shall accrue vacation as follows:
 
Years of Service    Hours Per Pay Approximate Annual Maximum Vacation
(40 Hour Work Week) Period        Accrual            Balance
During the first                                     3 times the yearly
four years of       3.08          80 hours           balance to a maximum
employment                                           of 240 hours
During the fifth                                     3 times the yearly
year through the    4.62          120 hours          balance to a maximum
ninth year                                           of 360 hours
After the ninth                                      3 times the yearly
year of employment  6.16          160 hours          balance to a maximum
                                                     of 480 hours
 
   (c)   For those full-time regular employees who are not on probation,
beginning with January 1, 2001, the above schedule will take effect and
eligible employees will begin to accrue vacation as outlined.
   (d)   Full-time fire suppression and/or emergency medical service employees
who are eligible and governed by §
165.06(a)(2) shall accrue vacation as follows:
 
Years of Service    Hours Per Pay Approximate Annual Maximum Vacation
(48 Hour Work Week) Period        Accrual            Balance
During the first                                     3 times the yearly
four years of       3.7           96 hours           balance to a maximum
employment                                           of 288 hours
During the fifth                                     3 times the yearly
through ninth year  5.06          132 hours          balance to a maximum
                                                     of 396 hours
After the ninth                                      3 times the yearly
year of employment  6.45          168 hours          balance to a maximum
                                                     of 504 hours
 
   (e)   For those eligible employees working a 48 hour work week and are not
on probation, beginning with January 1, 2001, the above schedule will take
effect and eligible employees will begin to accrue vacation as outlined.
   (f)   Vacation is accrued on a pay period basis in which an employee is in a
paid status for all regularly scheduled hours. Vacation is not increased
because of overtime worked.
   (g)   All full-time regular and part-time regular employees are not
permitted to use vacation during the first six months of employment.
   (h)   The maximum vacation balance shall not exceed three times the full-
time employee’s annual accrual. Upon termination of employment, an employee
shall be paid for the balance of unused vacation.
   (i)   An illness of an employee while on vacation shall neither change the
dates of his or her vacation nor can it be charged against sick leave to extend
the vacation.
   (j)   Part-time regular employees who work a consistent work schedule of 20
hours or more per week shall be eligible for vacation accrual. After the first
six months, 20 hours shall be credited to the employee.
   (k)   Beginning January 1, 2001, all eligible part-time regular employees
who are not on probation will be placed upon an accrual system by bi-weekly pay
periods as outlined above.
   (l)   Part-time regular employees eligible for vacation accrual may not use
more vacation per day than they normally work. For example: An employee who
works an average of four hours every work day Monday through Friday, may not
take eight hours of vacation that day and continue to work the remaining four
days and accrue overtime.
(Ord. 00-105, passed 7-24-2000; Ord. 2003-117, passed 10-13-2003)
§ 165.08 LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
   Leave of absence is a definite period of time when an employee is absent
from work and has obtained approval in advance for the absence. Since absence
from work has a negative effect on efficiency and service to the public, leaves
of absence will be granted only when necessary and when properly documented as
required by the City Manager. Leaves of absence are generally unpaid. For some
types of absence, pay will be continued where there is a special provision in
this code for pay during absence and the employee will be required to take the
paid leave unless and until it is exhausted. Leaves of absence must be
requested in writing, supported by appropriate documentation, approved in
writing, specifically limited in duration and extended beyond 60 calendar days
only upon written approval of the City Manager. Only full-time employees who
have satisfactorily completed at least one year of continuous service will be
eligible to request leaves of absence in excess of ten work days. In cases of
absence for one calendar month or more, there will be no accrual of vacation
and sick pay credit or payment by the employer of insurance benefits unless
otherwise specifically provided elsewhere in this code. Failure to comply with
conditions imposed by the City Manager, e.g., return on the specified date,
will result in termination.
(Ord. 94-48, passed 4-25-1994)
§ 165.09 PAY DURING PERIODS OF ABSENCE/PERSONAL BUSINESS.
   (a)   Personal business/leave. Up to three personal leave days are available
to regular full-time employees, with the approval of the department head.
PERSONAL BUSINESS, for this section, means a short, definite period of time
during which the eligible employee is compelled by forces beyond his or her
control to be absent during work hours. Paid time off for personal business
will be limited to circumstances involving serious compelling situations,
including, but not limited to the death of a non-immediate family member and
jury duty. For the death of the employees’ spouse, parent, child, sibling,
grandparent, mother-in-law or father-in-law, the employee may receive up to
three days of pay, ending with the day of the funeral. If the employee is
subpoenaed as a witness or for jury duty, the employee will receive the
difference between regular pay and the witness/juror fee provided that the
employee makes every effort to appear for work during the portion of the
employee’s normal work day and that does not conflict with court time.
      (1)   At the first payroll of the year, eligible employees will be
credited with personal business/leave as outlined in division (a) above.
      (2)   Personal business/leave must be used within the calendar year and
is not allowed to be carried over without the express, written permission of
the City Manager.
(Ord. 2003-117, passed 10-13-2003)
   (b)   Sick pay. Sick pay will be provided to an employee when that employee
is unable to work because of a personal illness or injury, or when a member of
the employee’s immediate family is ill or injured and the employee requests an
absence to care for the family member.
      (1)   For full-time regular employees who work a regular 40 hours work
week, three and seven-tenths hours of sick leave will be credited for each full
pay period worked following hire.
      (2)   For employees working a 48-hour work week, as outlined in §
165.06(a)(2), approximately four and four-tenths hours of sick leave will be
credited for each full pay period worked following hire, not to exceed 115
hours per calendar year.
      (3)   Sick pay credit accumulates without limit.
      (4)   A request for sick leave must be made to the department head/
director.
      (5)   Sick leave may be taken for, but is not limited to the following:
         A.   Illness or injury of the employee;
         B.   Any condition related to pregnancy and/or childbirth;
         C.   Paternity leave not to exceed five days immediately following the
birth of the child;
         D.   Non-emergency medical treatment of the employee or the employee’s
immediate family members, when the employee’s presence is required;
         E.   Illness in employee’s immediate family if the employee has
exhausted available personal days; and
         F.   Attendance at a funeral for a person other than a member of the
immediate family with prior approval of the department head/director, provided
the member has exhausted available personal days.
      (6)   Sick leave accrual is not increased because of overtime worked.
      (7)   Sick leave conversion at retirement.
         A.   Upon retirement, a full-time, regular employee who meets the age
and length of service requirements of the Public Employees Retirement System or
the Police and Fireman's Disability and Pension Fund, whichever is applicable,
and who was also in the service of the city for a period of ten continuous
years prior to retirement from the city, may convert accumulated sick leave at
agreed-upon rates. Once an employee has earned 500 hours of sick leave, the
employee may convert it at the following rates:
            1.   One hour to 1,600 hours at three hours of sick leave to one
hour of pay;
            2.   1,601 hours to 1,800 hours at two hours to one hour of pay;
            3.   1,801 hours to 2,300 hours at one hour of sick leave to one
hour of pay.
         B.   Conversion rates are for hours earned in each tier and are not
retroactive to all hours accumulated. The maximum of redeemable hours shall be
2,300 hours. The maximum payout shall not exceed 1,133 hours of pay. Sick hours
are not convertible to cash under any other circumstances.
         C.   Payment will be based on the employee's base rate of pay at the
time of retirement.
         D.   The conversion of sick leave to cash will be made as a lump sum
payment and will eliminate all sick leave credit accrued by the employee.
         E.   Retirement, as used in this policy, is hereby defined as a
separation of a regular full-time or regular part-time employee after ten
continuous years of service in good standing with the city, and a separation
where the employee is eligible per the respective plan, as well as meets other
applicable criteria (i.e. age for retirement) for regular or disability
retirement benefits from the appropriate State of Ohio Pension Plan within one
year from the date of separation.
(Ord. 00-105, passed 7-24-2000; Ord. 2003-117, passed 10-13-2003; Ord. 2012-29,
passed 4-9-2012)
   (c)   Injury pay.
      (1)   The city will continue the regular pay of employees who are absent
from work due to an injury or occupational disease arising out of and occurring
in the course of their employment for the city during the period of time
beginning on the date of the absence from work and continuing until the
earliest of the following:
         A.   Return to work;
         B.   A finding by the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation that no
temporary or permanent total disability payments will be made;
         C.   Termination of employment;
         D.   Failure by the employee to diligently pursue his or her workers’
compensation benefit;
         E.   Expiration of 12 calendar weeks from the date of the qualifying
injury or commencement of the qualifying disability; and
         F.   The employee is otherwise ineligible for injury pay.
      (2)   By accepting injury pay, and as a condition thereof, the employee
will execute a written agreement assigning to the city disability payments
received for the period of time the employee received injury pay compensation
from the city. The written agreement shall also specify that the employee will
repay the city any advancements made by the city in error for periods when the
employee was not in fact totally disabled. The employee further agrees that the
warrants from the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation will be mailed to the
employee in care of the city. An employee may not receive a combination of
injury pay and workers’ compensation and/or disability insurance which total
more than 100% of his or her normal wages for the period of his or her absence.
A decision by the Personnel Director terminating injury pay may be appealed to
the Personnel Board of Review in writing within ten days of the decision and
the decision of the Board of Review, after hearing, shall be final.
      (3)   In addition to injury pay, the city will maintain the employee’s
insurance benefits during the period of time that the employee qualifies for
injury pay up to six months from the date of injury or commencement of
disability. Probationary employees do not earn vacation credit while drawing
injury pay. A permanent employee who is drawing injury pay at any time during
any calendar year shall be credited on January 1 of the next calendar year with
the vacation credit that the employee would have earned but for absence due to
qualifying industrial injury or disease. However, one- twelfth of the vacation
credit shall be deducted for each month or each part of a month in excess of
ten working days during which employee was drawing injury pay during the prior
calendar year. An employee drawing injury pay for six months or less who
returns to active payroll status for a period of at least six months after the
discontinuance of injury pay shall have restored to his or her credit the pro-
rata deductions of vacation credit attributable to the first period of
industrial injury or disease.
   (d)   Military pay. Regular full-time employees who are ordered to appear
for active duty or annual training (but not weekend drill or voluntary duty or
training carried out at the option of the employee) will receive the difference
between their regular city pay and military pay for the days of absence up to a
total of 31 days per calendar year. An employee will receive no pay from the
city under this provision if his or her military pay is higher than the city
pay.
   (e)   Sick leave donation program.
      (1)   This program has been established to help those employees and their
families who are terminally ill and/or have a catastrophic illness (i.e.
cancers, kidney or liver disease/failure, severe heart attack, and the like).
TERMINAL ILLNESS is defined as a medical condition that will result in death in
less than 12 months. A CATASTROPHIC ILLNESS OR INJURY is defined as a medical
condition that poses a direct and immediate threat to life and requires
inpatient or hospice care and mandates more than six months away from work
recovering from the catastrophic illness or injury. The employee must have
exhausted all other accrued leave, including sick, vacation, HRT and personal
leave, prior to using  time from the Sick Leave Bank. This program does not
supersede nor replace other retirement or disability programs.
      (2)   Any employee may voluntarily elect to contribute, permanently, sick
leave hourly credits. If there is a request from an employee to use the Sick
Leave Bank and there are no available hours in the bank, the Human Resources
Department will send a notification to all employees requesting their help.
      (3)   In addition, the following criteria will apply.
         A.   Only regular non- probationary employees are eligible to donate
sick leave hourly credits or be the recipient of a donation.
         B.   A sick leave hourly credit will not have an hourly rate attached.
         C.   For those employees with less than 500 hours of accrued sick
time, they are eligible to donate a maximum of eight hours per year to the Sick
Leave Bank. Employees with 500 hours or more may contribute up to a maximum of
24 hours per year to the Sick Leave Bank. An employee may contribute up to two
times a year (first pay period in March and September) to the Sick Leave Bank.
         D.   A sick leave hourly credit donation is permanent and therefore
cannot be returned to the donor or converted to cash by the employee's estate.
         E.   The sick leave hourly credits will be used in place of the
requesting employee's regularly scheduled work week.
         F.   A donated sick leave hourly credit will not count as a separate
absence for the donating employee.
         G.   If applicable, employees who receive donated time from the Sick
Leave Bank and who return to work following a catastrophic event, will donate
back to the bank two hours of sick time for every eight hours as they accrue
further sick leave. An employee will not accrue vacation or sick leave while
receiving donated sick leave. An employee will be eligible for this program up
to one year after he or she has exhausted all accumulated paid leave (vacation,
sick, personal, comp time, HRT time).
         H.   An employee or their immediate family member's terminal or
catastrophic illness or injury must be certified by a physician.
         I.   An employee who voluntarily chooses to donate sick leave credits
must complete a Sick Leave Donation Form and submit it to the Human Resources
Director who will review, approve and forward to the Finance Department, who
will deduct the credit from the donating employee's sick leave balance and
return the form to the Human Resources Director, who will maintain the record.
         J.   When an employee or his or her immediate family member is
terminally ill and/or a catastrophic illness occurs and the employee is about
to exhaust their regular sick leave, a request for donated sick leave may be
requested in writing from the Sick Leave Bank in hourly credit increments. All
requests should be addressed to the Human Resources Director. The physician's
certification must be attached. Again, the employee must exhaust all accrued
time, including sick, vacation, personal, comp and HRT time prior to receiving
sick leave credits from the Sick Leave Bank.
         K.   After receipt of the request, the Human Resources Director will
forward to the City Manager's office for review and approval.
         L.   The maximum donated sick leave credits that may be approved for
any one employee per year is 1,000.
         M.   For purpose of this policy, IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER shall
include: employee's current spouse, child, stepchild, brother, sister, mother,
stepmother/father, and mother/father-in-law and grandparents.
         N.   The City Manager is authorized to make occasional adjustments to
this program to accommodate participation and need.
(Ord. 94-48, passed 4-25-1994; Ord. 2003-117, passed 10-13-2003; Ord. 2012-19,
passed 3-12-2012)
§ 165.10 POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   The Personnel Director shall establish and administer policies and
procedures to implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter of the code
in compliance with the laws as may be applicable, including, but not limited
to, the Family Medical Leave Act, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 2611 et seq. and the
Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
(Ord. 94-48, passed 4-25-1994)
§ 165.11 USE OF CITY EQUIPMENT.
   (a)   The use of city equipment, uniforms or supplies for personal use is
strictly prohibited.
   (b)   Violators are subject to immediate termination.
   (c)   The following is a list of examples but is not intended to be all
inclusive:
      (1)   Automobiles, trucks, cruisers;
      (2)   Mowers, back-hoe, tools;
      (3)   Uniforms; and
      (4)   Supplies.
   (d)   The only exception to this are the automobiles supplied to the City
Manager as part of his or her contract and those motor vehicles supplied to the
Chief of Police, the Public Works Director, the Public Utilities Director and
the Foreman of the Public Works Department, Foreman of Public Utilities
Department and the City Engineer. These vehicles are supplied to the above
stated personnel since their services may be required at any time, day or
night. Use should normally be restricted to city business.
(Ord. 4-1984, passed 1-23-1984)
§ 165.12 UNIFORMS.
   (a)   Uniforms to be furnished. The city shall furnish uniforms to all city
employees as designated by the City Manager. These uniforms and all other items
issued by the city shall remain the property of the city and must be returned
if for any reason the employee leaves the city’s employment. The employee’s
final pay check will be held by the city until all city property has been
returned.
   (b)   Uniform requests. Uniform requests must be made in writing to the
respective department head or Police Chief and approved by the City Manager
prior to purchase. Receipt of purchase is required for payment and record
purposes.
   (c)   Replacements. Old equipment, uniforms and weapons replaced by new
issue must be returned to the city for disposal.
   (d)   Service Department. Each employee designated by the City Manager will
be issued adequate uniforms.
   (e)   Police Department. Regular full-time police officers designated by the
City Manager shall be issued adequate uniforms. Auxiliary officers shall
receive an initial uniform allowance of an amount not to exceed $450 and
thereafter an annual allowance of an amount not to exceed $75.
(Ord. 4-1984, passed 1-23-1984)
§ 165.13 PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS.
   The Director of Personnel is hereby authorized to arrange for physical
examination of all classified and unclassified city employees as well as
candidates for positions with the city in accordance with the rules and
regulations promulgated by him or her and approved by the Personnel Review
Board. The city shall pay the full cost of the examination.
(Ord. 5-1978, passed 2-13-1978)
§ 165.14 PRE-EMPLOYMENT INVESTIGATION.
   The Personnel Director, prior to the certification of any name to the
appointing authority for consideration for employment, shall conduct a
background investigation.
(Ord. 51-1978, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 165.15 NONSALARY REMUNERATION.
   The city may, in its discretion, provide refreshments, including coffee,
provisions for parties, meals; awards in recognition of prior service such as
plaques, trophies and the like; and any other type of nonsalary remuneration.
(Ord. 41-1982, passed 5-10-1982)
§ 165.16 LEGAL DEFENSE EXPENSES.
   The City Manager, upon recommendation of the appropriate department head,
may reimburse an employee prosecuted for any misdemeanor charge in the criminal
division of any Warren County court upon a private warrant based on actions of
the employee, judged by the City Manager, and certified by the Law Director, to
be in the proper performance of official duties, for expenses incurred in
obtaining legal counsel, but only in those cases which, in the opinion of the
City Manager reasonably required the employment of defense counsel and in
cases, only to the extent of the reasonable value of the legal services
rendered as certified by the City Law Director.
(Ord. 48-1980, passed 5-27-1980; Ord. 2004-101, passed 7-26-2004)
§ 165.17 MEDICAL INSURANCE BENEFITS PRESCRIPTION CARD.
   (a)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to include in the medical
insurance benefit program a prescription card for all eligible employees.
   (b)   The services for the prescription card shall be paid for from funds
appropriated in the Medical and Life Insurance Fund.
(Ord. 63-1984, passed 7-23-1984)
§ 165.18 EMPLOYEE OF YEAR AWARDS; RECIPIENTS TO RECEIVE CASH BONUS.
   There is hereby established an “Employee of the Year” award, that recognizes
employees with outstanding performance. The program will be established and
maintained by the City Manager’s office. Recipients of the award may receive
items of acknowledgment including a cash award if deemed appropriate by the
City Manager.
(Ord. 89-17, passed 2-13-1989)
§ 165.19 CITY MANAGER AND ASSISTANT PICK-UP PLAN.
   (a)   The statutorily required employee contributions for the City Manager
and Assistant City Manager to the State Public Employees Retirement System
shall be withheld from the gross pay of individuals, and shall be picked up by
the city in lieu of contributions by these employees. This pick-up is and shall
be designated as “employee contributions” and shall be the individual
contributions to the Public Employees Retirement System for each employee.
Neither the City Manager nor Assistant City Manager shall have the option of
choosing to receive the contributed amounts directly instead of having them
picked up by the city.
   (b)   The city shall, in reporting and making remittance to the Public
Employees Retirement System, attest that the pick-up of the employee
contribution for the City Manager and Assistant City Manager has been made by
the city through direct contributions to the retirement system by each employee
and that the contributions are designated as “employee contributions.”
(Ord. 91-111, passed 11-11-1991)
§ 165.20 PICK-UP PLAN FOR MEMBERS OF POLICE AND FIRE DISABILITY AND PENSION
FUND OR PERS.
   (a)   Effective the first pay period following approval from the Internal
Revenue Service, the full amount of the statutorily required “member
contributions” to the state retirement systems of Police and Firemen’s
Disability and Pension Fund or the Public Employees Retirement Systems shall be
withheld from the gross pay of all individuals who are members of the
retirement systems and shall be “picked up” (assumed and paid to the retirement
systems) by the city in lieu of contributions by the members. This “pick-up” is
and shall be designated as “member contributions” and shall be the individual
contributions to the retirement systems of Police and Firemen’s Disability and
Pension Fund or the Public Employees Retirement System by each member. No
member subject to this “pick-up” provision shall have the option of choosing to
receive the contributed amounts directly instead of having them “picked-up” by
the city.
   (b)   The city through its proper officers shall in reporting and making
remittance to the Police and Firemen’s Disability and Pension Fund and the
Public Employees Retirement System to the state, attest that the “pick-up” of
the “member contribution” for each individual subject to this procedure has
been made by the city through the direct contributions to the retirement
systems by each individual and that the contributions are designated as “member
contributions.”
(Ord. 92-33, passed 4-27-1992)
§ 165.21 PICK-UP PLAN FOR DEPARTMENT HEADS AND CLERK.
   (a)   The statutorily required employees contributions for the city
department heads and Clerk of Council to the State Public Employees Retirement
System shall be withheld from the gross pay of the individuals, and shall be
picked up by the city in lieu of contributions by these employees. This pick-up
is and shall be designated as “employee contributions” and shall be the
individual contributions to the Public Employees Retirement System for each
employee. None of the aforementioned department heads or Clerk of Council shall
have the option of choosing to receive the contributed amounts directly instead
of having them picked up by the city.
   (b)   The city shall, in reporting and making remittance to the Public
Employees Retirement System, attest that the pick-up of the employee
contribution for the city department heads and Clerk of Council has been made
by the city through direct contributions to the retirement system by each
employee and that the contributions are designated as “employee contributions.”
(Ord. 99-190, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 165.22 PAY INCREASES; ANNUAL MERIT INCREASE CONSIDERATION.
   (a)   The salary administration plan of the City shall be based on the
current rate of compensation with consideration being given for pay increases
based on one's ability to perform his/her functions, the show of interest,
initiative and willingness to cooperate and take orders, along with the length
of service of said employee. By handling employee increases in this manner, it
is Council's desire, through its employees, to better develop and improve the
level of services to the public.
   (b)   The salary administration plan of the City shall also recognize
national and regional inflationary pressures and will seek to maintain the
system's effectiveness by annually reviewing and considering the adjustment of
salary and hiring rates to reflect cost-of-living changes. By handling employee
increases in this manner, it is Council's desire to minimize costs of employee
turnover and vacancies and to ensure that hiring rates remain competitive
enough to attract employees skilled and talented to better improve the level of
services to the public.
   (c)   A cost of living adjustment to provide for increases in compensation
is hereby granted at the rate of 3% for each full-time and each part time, non-
represented employee, employee's current rate of pay, effective with the first
full pay period after January 1, 2023.
   (d)   The City Manager will, in the future, approve all increases based on
each employee's eligibility, adequate work performance, and absence of
performance related suspensions, discipline, or warnings.
   (e)   All regular full-time and part time, non-represented, employees will
be considered for this annual adjustment. Only persons employed at the time the
adjustment is administered and increases approved by the City Manager are
eligible to receive a wage adjustment.
   (f)   Council's intent is to regularly review, during the annual budget
process, national and regional inflationary pressures and make recommendations
for any adjustments to take effect January 1 of the following budget year.
   (g)   In addition to the cost of living adjustment, an amount not to exceed
3% of payroll is available for distribution to employees that have demonstrated
exceptional effort, initiative, performance and success in their duties. The
specific amount of an individual increase will be based on evaluations of
employee performance, current rate of compensation, inter-department
coordination, and City Manager approval.
   (h)   This merit component will allow the City Manager to make
recommendations for salary increases for employees, department heads, and
Assistant City Manager. Salary increases for the Law Director, Clerk of
Council, City Manager and Prosecutor are to be annually reviewed and approved
by separate ordinance of Council.
   (i)   All newly appointed employees shall work a probationary period up to
six months before they are eligible for any increase in pay. After the
probationary period, the employee may be advanced depending upon the employee's
ability and work effort. If the employee's work is not satisfactory at any time
within the probationary period, he or she is not retained as an employee.
   (j)   There is hereby established a special merit bonus allocation pool of
$100,000, to be distributed at the discretion of the City Manager. A special
merit bonus is obtained by exceptional effort and/or accomplishments, cost
savings suggestions, improved skills, customer service and demonstrated efforts
in the City's Wellness Program and further job related education, etc.
   (k)   The City Manager is authorized to develop and establish a Wellness
Program and that said program may include Community Center membership,
financial wellness program, gift cards and contributions to employee HSA/HRA
accounts as a benefit. The City Manager is hereby authorized to establish all
criteria related to the Community Center benefit, including eligibility
requirements, which may include memberships being awarded on a case-by-case
basis to employees that have demonstrated exceptional effort, initiative,
performance or success in their duties, as well as a general effort to enhance
wellness. The City Manager shall further be authorized to terminate this
membership benefit for any or all employees at any time.
   (l)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to annually designate employees
who serve as part of the Executive Leadership Team and is further authorized to
develop a vacation buyback and allocation program for members of the Executive
Leadership Team.
   (m)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to develop an Executive
Leadership Benefits package that may be allocated to members of the Leadership
Team and City Manager. That package shall include up to $1,000 towards an
employee's HSA or other authorized health savings account or Deferred
Compensation plan and up to $1,000 for equipment/ technology/office upgrades,
professional development and services or additional contributions to benefit
accounts.
   (n)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to develop programs, schedules,
positions, salaries, activities, incentives and other tools as deemed necessary
to overcome the staffing challenges needed to provide high quality services
while supporting Mason's core values for customer service, communication
collaboration, cooperation cost savings and compassion.
(Ord. 2002-120, passed 8-26-2002 ; Ord. 2004-138, passed 1-22-2004; Ord. 2004-
105, passed 8-9-2004; Ord. 2006-167, passed 11-27-2006; Ord. 2007-149, passed
10-22-2007; Ord. 2008-127, passed 11-24-2008; Ord. 2014-118, passed 11-24-2014;
Ord. 2015-125, passed 11-23-2015; Ord. 2018-130, passed 11-12-2018; Ord. 2022-
123, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 165.23 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. The same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.01.
      (2)   VOLUNTEER. A person who is not paid for service or who is employed
on less than a permanent full-time basis.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c) of this section, no
political subdivision shall require any of its employees, as a condition of
employment, to reside in any specific area of the state.
   (c)   (1)   Division (b) of this section does not apply to a volunteer.
      (2)   To ensure adequate response times by certain employees of political
subdivisions to emergencies or disasters while ensuring that those employees
generally are free to reside throughout the state, the electors of any
political subdivision may file an initiative petition to submit a local law to
the electorate, or the legislative authority may adopt an ordinance or
resolution, that requires any individual employed by that political
subdivision, as a condition of employment, to reside either in the county where
the political subdivision is located or in any adjacent county in this state.
For purposes of this section, an initiative petition shall be filed and
considered as provided in R.C. §§ 731.28 and 731.31, except that the Fiscal
Officer of the political subdivision shall take the actions prescribed for the
Auditor or Clerk if the political subdivision has no Auditor or Clerk, and
except that references to a municipal corporation shall be considered to be
references to the applicable political subdivision.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c), employees of political
subdivisions of this state have the right to reside any place they desire.
(R.C. § 9.481)
§ 165.24 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE/RETENTION PROGRAMS.
   (a)   Part-time recreation employees.
      (1)   The City Manager shall be authorized to establish and maintain an
incentive plan fund from which he or she may pay part-time recreation employees
an incentive bonus as follows:
         (a)   Upon completion of a six-month period or established season of
working continuous regular part-time or seasonal shifts equally a minimum of 21
hours per week to a maximum of 29 hours per week, a payment equal to $0.35 for
each hour worked during the six-month period or season, to be paid within 30
days after the end of the period or season.
         (b)   Upon completion of a six-month period or established season of
working continuous regular part-time or seasonal shifts equally a minimum of 30
hours per week to a maximum of 40 hours per week, a payment equal to $0.50 for
each hour worked during the six-month period or season, to be paid within 30
days after the end of the period or season.
      (2)   The Finance Director is authorized to make payments to qualified
employees pursuant to the terms of the program.
(Ord. 2007-159, passed 11-12-2007)
   (b)   Fire incentive plan.
      (1)   The City Manager shall be authorized to establish and maintain an
incentive plan fund from which he or she may pay regular part-time employees an
attendance bonus and grant paid time off as follows:
         (a)   Upon completion of a six-month period of working the regular
three day shift rotation without an absence, a payment equal to $0.50 for each
hour worked during the six-month period, to be paid within 30 days after the
end of the six month period.
         (b)   Upon completion of a second consecutive six-month period, and
for each consecutive six month period thereafter, of working the regular three
day shift rotation without an absence, a payment equal to $1.00 for each hour
worked during the six-month period, and an award of 24 hours of paid time off
which, when used thereafter, shall not be deemed an absence for purposes of
eligibility for the attendance bonus.
      (2)    The City Manager shall determine by policy how the six-month
periods shall be applied, and shall further determine what shall constitute an
absence, and shall establish any other policy necessary to implement this
division.
(Ord. 2003-118, passed 10-13-2003)
CHAPTER 167: ENVIRONMENTAL ADVISORY COMMISSION
Section
167.01    Purpose
167.02    Members
167.03    Duties and responsibilities
Charter reference:
   Other Boards and Commissions, see Charter §
7.10
   Eligibility, see Charter §
7.13
   Removal, see Charter §
11.04
   Vacancy, see Charter §
7.12
Cross-reference:
   General employment provisions, see
Ch. 165
§ 167.01 PURPOSE.
   There is hereby created an Environmental Advisory Commission of the city,
which shall act as an advisory body of 11 members to be appointed by Council.
(Ord. 90-69, passed 6-11-1990)
§ 167.02 MEMBERS.
   Members shall be appointed by Council from the electors of the city to serve
terms of two years; however, the first appointments shall be made as follows:
six members for a term of one year and five members for a term of two years.
(Ord. 90-69, passed 6-11-1990)
§ 167.03 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Environmental Advisory Commission shall act as an advisory body to the
City Manager and Council and shall:
   (a)   Establish three subcommittees to address the following issues:
      (1)   Mandated waste reduction and recycling;
      (2)   Increased awareness of the environment through educational efforts;
and
      (3)   Active conservation and preservation of our land and waters.
   (b)   Three members of the Commission shall serve on each of the three
subcommittees, one of whom shall act as the Chairperson of the subcommittee and
all of whom shall act as liaisons to the Commission in regard to the issues of
that subcommittee;
   (c)   Meet at least bimonthly;
   (d)   Review air, land and water quality issues and recommend action, if
appropriate, to Council;
   (e)   Review solid and hazardous waste management issues, including
economical disposal options;
   (f)   Assist the City Planning Commission or Council, upon request, in
conducting environmental quality analysis for selected zoning issues;
   (g)   Coordinate with appropriate federal, state and county agencies to
address environmental quality issues of mutual concern and to seek evaluation
of the progress of the Commission’s work in cooperation with the City Manager
and Council; and
   (h)   Perform other duties assigned by Council or requested by the City
Manager.
(Ord. 90-69, passed 6-11-1990)
CHAPTER 168: BOARD OF VETERANS’ AFFAIRS
Section
168.01   Purpose
168.02   Members
168.03   Duties and responsibilities
§ 168.01 PURPOSE.
   There is hereby created and established a Board of Veterans' Affairs of the
city, to act as an advisory body, to be appointed as set forth below.
(Ord. 2017-95, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 168.02 MEMBERS.
   (a)   The Board of Veterans' Affairs shall consist of five members as
hereinafter provided: two Board members shall be a member of or persons
nominated by the American Legion, Post 194, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, Post
9622, or the Disabled American Veterans, Chapter 59, or a veteran residing in
the city; and the three remaining members shall be members of Council and shall
be appointed by the Mayor on a bi-annual basis, provided that he or she shall
not serve beyond his or her tenure on Council.
   (b)   Beginning January 1, 2018 and thereafter, member terms shall be
appointed as follows. One of the members nominated by the American Legion, the
Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Disabled American Veterans, or the resident
veteran shall serve an initial appointment of one year, with the other member
serving an initial term of two years. Thereafter each shall serve for two year
terms. The members appointed from the membership of the Council shall serve at
the pleasure of the Mayor, but shall not serve beyond their tenure on the
Council. All members of the Board shall be electors of the municipality.
   (c)   If the American Legion Post 194, the Veterans of Foreign Wars Post
9622, or the Disabled American Veterans Chapter 59 shall fail to nominate their
respective members as hereinabove provided within 60 days after the effective
date of this section, or within 60 days after any vacancy shall occur for which
they are to make a nomination, then and in those events the Council may make
the appointment of such members by appointing a resident veteran to such
vacancy.
(Ord. 2017-95, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 168.03 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Board of Veterans' Affairs shall act as an advisory body to the City
Manager and Council with respect to the following matters:
   (a)   Care and maintenance of the Mason Veterans Memorial.
   (b)   Aid, assistance, and encouragement of community involvement in
veterans' affairs.
   (c)   Collection and disposition of funds for the benefit of various
veterans' affairs.
   (d)   Promotion and support of educational programs for various veterans'
affairs.
   (e)   Coordination with appropriate federal, state, county, and other local
agencies to address matters of veterans' affairs.
   (f)   Performance of other duties assigned by Council or requested by the
City Manager.
(Ord. 2017-95, passed 7-10-2017)
CHAPTER 169: MASON PORT AUTHORITY
Section
169.01   Establishment
169.02   Territorial limits
169.03   Board of Directors; powers and duties
169.04   Dissolution
Charter reference:
   Eligibility, see Charter §
7.13
   Removal, see Charter §
11.04
Cross-reference:
   General employment provisions, see
Ch. 165
§ 169.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A port authority to be designated and known as the “Mason Port Authority”
(the “Port Authority”) is hereby created pursuant to the Act.
(Ord. 2005-70, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 169.02 TERRITORIAL LIMITS.
   The Port Authority shall have territorial limits coterminous with the
boundaries of the city as they now or hereafter exist. The Port Authority shall
be a body corporate and politic and shall have the powers and jurisdiction now
or hereafter given to it by the Act. The exercise of those powers and
jurisdiction by the Port Authority are deemed to be essential government
functions of the state.
(Ord. 2005-70, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 169.03 BOARD OF DIRECTORS; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (a)   The Port Authority shall be governed by a five-member Board of
Directors each of whom shall serve for a term of four years, provided that the
Board initially shall be composed of members having terms of office commencing
on the effective date of their appointment and expiring as follows: two members
shall have a term of office expiring one year after their appointment; one
member shall have a term of office expiring two years after his or her
appointment; one member shall have a term of office expiring three years after
his or her appointment; and one member shall have a term of office expiring
four years after his or her appointment. A majority of the members of the Board
of Directors shall be qualified electors of, or shall have their businesses or
places of employment in, the city for a period of at least three years next
preceding their appointment. All of the members of the Board of Directors shall
be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of this Council. Upon the
resignation or removal of a member of the Board of Directors, or the expiration
of the term of office of a member of the Board of Directors, a new member of
the Board of Directors shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of this Council. Any person appointed to fill a vacancy on the Board of
Directors shall be appointed to only the unexpired term of that vacancy. Any
member of the Board of Directors may be eligible for reappointment to the Board
of Directors.
   (b)   Each member of the Board of Directors shall serve without
compensation, but expenses incurred by any member of the Board of Directors may
be paid or reimbursed as the Board of Directors may determine. Not more than
one person appointed to the Board of Directors shall hold any other public
office except that of notary public, member of the state militia or member of a
reserve component of the United States Armed Forces.
   (c)   (1)   Any member of the Board of Directors may be removed by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of this Council for misfeasance, nonfeasance or
malfeasance in office.
      (2)   No member of the Board of Directors shall be interested in the
profits or emoluments of any contract, job, work or service of the Port
Authority. Any member of the Board of Directors who is so interested in the
profits or emoluments shall be deemed guilty of malfeasance.
   (d)   The Clerk of this Council, after the appointment of initial members of
the Board of Directors and consultation with those members, shall give notice
of the time and place of the organizational meeting of the Board of Directors
in the manner established for giving notice of regular meetings of this
Council. The Clerk shall also give notice, at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting, of the time, place and purpose of the organizational meeting of the
Board of Directors to any news media to which notice of special meetings of
this Council is required to be given. The Board of Directors at meeting shall,
in accordance with the Act, elect one of its members as Chairperson and another
as Vice-Chairperson and shall designate their terms of office, and shall
appoint a Secretary, who need not be a member of the Board of Directors.
(Ord. 2005-70, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 169.04 DISSOLUTION.
   That subject to compliance with the Act, the Port Authority may be dissolved
at any time upon passage of an ordinance by this Council.
(Ord. 2005-70, passed 6-13-2005)
CHAPTER 171: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
Section
171.01   Economic Director
171.02   Economic Development Manager
171.03   Economic Development Tech
Cross-reference:
   General employment provisions, see
Ch. 165
§ 171.01 ECONOMIC DIRECTOR.
   There is hereby created a position of Economic Development Director with the
Economic Development Department.
(Ord. 2006-84, passed 7-24-2006)
§ 171.02 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT MANAGER.
   There is hereby created a position of Economic Development Manager with the
Economic Development Department.
(Ord. 2006-84, passed 7-24-2006)
§ 171.03 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT TECH.
   There is hereby created a position of Economic Development Tech with the
Economic Development Department.
(Ord. 2007-23, passed 2-12-2007)
***** TITLE SEVEN: JUDICIAL *****
CHAPTER 175: MUNICIPAL COURT
Editor’s note:
   The provisions of R.C. § 1901.01 established the Mason Municipal Court
which, pursuant to R.C. § 1901.02, has territorial jurisdiction within the
corporate limits of the municipality of Mason and within Deerfield Township in
Warren County. The powers, duties and proceedings of the Court are established
by R.C. Chapter 1901. R.C. § 1901.25 provides that the Municipal Court may
provide by rule how jurors may be chosen. Juror’s fees in any criminal case
involving the violation of a city ordinance shall be paid out of the City
Treasury. The Municipal Court, pursuant to R.C. § 1901.26(A), may establish a
schedule of fees and costs to be taxed in any action or proceeding, whether
civil or criminal.
    R.C. § 1901.31(F) provides that fines received for violation of city
ordinances shall be paid into the City Treasury. Rule 13 of the Rules Governing
Procedure in Traffic Cases as promulgated by the Ohio Supreme Court provides
that all courts other than juvenile courts must establish a Traffic Violations
Bureau and specifies certain restrictions as to the designated offenses and
schedule of fines to be accepted as waiver payment in lieu of court appearance.
Section
175.01   Prosecutor
175.02   Traffic Magistrate
175.03   Mason Municipal Court staffing
Statutory reference:
   Bond for Court Clerk required, see R.C. § 1901.31(D)
   Juvenile Court jurisdiction; arrest of child, see R.C. §§ 2151.01, 2151.23,
2152.03
   Notification to Director of liquor law convictions, see R.C. § 4301.991
   Power to establish schedule of fees and costs, see R.C. § 1901.26
   Record of traffic violations, see R.C. § 4513.37
   Release of Court Clerk’s liability for loss of funds, see R.C. §§ 131.18 et
seq.
§ 175.01 PROSECUTOR.
   There is hereby appointed a prosecutor in the City of Mason Municipal Court.
(Ord. 2010-21, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 175.02 TRAFFIC MAGISTRATE.
   There is hereby created a position of Traffic Magistrate with the Municipal
Court.
(Ord. 2001-22, passed 1-22-2001)
§ 175.03 MASON MUNICIPAL COURT STAFFING.
   There is hereby created positions and compensation for employees of the
Mason Municipal Court.
(Ord. 2006-181, passed 12-8-2006; Am. Ord. 2010-89, passed 7-26-2010)
***** TITLE NINE: TAXATION *****
CHAPTER 181: EARNED INCOME TAX REGULATIONS EFFECTIVE THROUGH DECEMBER 31, 2015
Editor’s note:
   Continuation of the authority to tax a shareholder’s distributive share of
the net profits of an S corporation to the same extent currently permitted by
the city was approved by the voters on November 2, 2004.
Section
181.01   Purpose
181.02   Definitions
181.03   Imposition of tax
181.04   Effective period
181.05   Return and payment of tax
181.06   Collection at source
181.07   Declarations
181.08   Duties of the Tax Commissioner
181.09   Investigative powers of the Tax Commissioner; penalty for divulging
confidential information
181.10   Interest and penalties
181.11   Collection of unpaid taxes and refunds of over-payments
181.12   Reserved
181.13   Board of Review
181.14   Allocation of funds
181.15   Credit for tax paid to another municipality and for resident
homeowners
181.16   Savings clause
181.99   Penalty
Charter reference:
   Limitation on tax rate, see Charter §
10.02
Cross-reference:
   Income tax regulations effective beginning January 1, 2016, see
Ch. 182
Statutory reference:
   Municipal income taxes, see R.C. Ch. 718
   Payroll deductions, see R.C. § 9.42
   Power to levy income tax, see Ohio Const. Art. XVIII, § 3
§ 181.01 PURPOSE.
   To provide funds for the purposes of general municipal operations,
maintenance, new equipment, extension and enlargement of municipal services and
facilities, and capital improvements of the city there shall be, and is hereby,
levied a tax on income, salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation,
and on net profits as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 2004-154, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 181.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the meaning
ascribed to them in this section, except as and if the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME. A C corporation’s federal taxable income
before net operating losses and special deductions as determined under the
Internal Revenue Code, but including subsequent adjustments from required
additions and deductions. Pass-through entities must compute ADJUSTED FEDERAL
TAXABLE INCOME as if the pass-through entity was a C corporation. This
definition does not apply to any taxpayer required to file a return under R.C.
§ 5745.03 or to the net profit from a sole proprietorship. This definition is
effective for tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2004.
      ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership, limited liability
company or any other form of unincorporated enterprise.
      BOARD OF REVIEW. The Board created by and constituted as provided for in
§
181.13 of this chapter.
      BUSINESS. An enterprise, activity, profession or undertaking of any
nature conducted for profit or ordinarily conducted for profit, whether by an
individual, partnership, association, corporation or any other entity.
      CORPORATION. A corporation or joint stock association, including Chapter
S corporations as defined in the federal tax code, 26 U.S.C. § 1361, organized
under the laws of the United States, the state, or any other state, territory
or foreign country or dependency.
      DEPENDENT. A person claimed by a resident as an exemption on the
resident's annual federal income tax form and defined by the Internal Revenue
Service.
      DOMICILE. The permanent legal residence of a taxpayer. A taxpayer may
have more than one residence but not more than one DOMICILE.
      EMPLOYEE. One who receives wages, salary, commissions, other types of
compensation or other income in the services of any employer.
      EMPLOYER. An individual, partnership, association, corporation,
governmental body, unit, or agency, or any other entity, whether or not
organized for profit, who or that employs one or more persons on a salary,
wage, commission, other compensation or other income basis.
      FISCAL YEAR. An accounting period of 12 months ending on any day other
than December 31.
      GROSS RECEIPTS. The total revenue derived from sales, work done or
service rendered, before any deductions, exceptions or credits are claimed.
      INCOME. Shall include all moneys derived from any source whatsoever,
including, but not limited to:
         A.   All salaries, wages, commissions, other compensation and other
income from whatever source received by residents of the municipality;
         B.   All salaries, wages, commissions, other compensation and other
income from whatsoever source received by nonresidents for work done or
services performed or rendered or activities conducted in the municipality; and
         C.   The portion attributable to the city of the net profits of all
unincorporated businesses, associations, professions, corporations or other
entities, from sales made, work done, services performed or rendered and
business or other activities conducted in the municipality.
      MUNICIPALITY. The City of Mason, Ohio.
      NET PROFITS. For taxable years prior to 2004, the net gain from all
operations including those pertaining to capital gains and losses of a
business, profession or enterprise after provision for all ordinary and
necessary expenses, except taxes imposed by this chapter, and federal and other
taxes based on income, paid or accrued in accordance with the accounting system
(i.e., either cash or accrual) used by the taxpayer for federal income tax
purposes, and, in the case of an association, without deduction of salaries
paid to partners or the owners, and as otherwise adjusted to the requirements
of this chapter and the rules and regulations promulgated by the Tax
Commissioner. (For taxable years 2004 and later, see ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE
INCOME.) NET PROFITS shall include any amount or value received, realized, or
recognized in a sale or other disposition of tangible personal property or real
property used in business, in excess of book value.
      NON-RESIDENT. An individual domiciled outside the municipality.
      NON-RESIDENT UNINCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY. An unincorporated business
entity not having a place of business within the municipality.
      PERSON. Every natural person, partnership, fiduciary, association,
corporation or other entity. Whenever used in any clause prescribed and
imposing a penalty, the term PERSON as applied to any association shall include
the partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers
thereof.
      PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any bona fide office (other than a mere statutory
office), factory, warehouse or other space which is occupied and used by the
taxpayer in carrying on any business activity, individually or through one or
more of his or her employees, regularly in attendance.
      QUALIFYING WAGE. Wages as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue
Code, without regard to any wage limitations, but including subsequent
adjustments from required additions and deductions. QUALIFYING WAGE represents
employees’ income from which municipal tax shall be deducted by the employer,
and any wages not considered a part of QUALIFYING WAGE shall not be taxed by
the city. This definition is effective January 1, 2004, for taxable years 2004
and later.
      RESIDENT. An individual domiciled in the municipality.
      RESIDENT UNINCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY. An unincorporated business
entity having a place of business within the municipality.
      TAX YEAR. The calendar year, or the fiscal year upon the basis of which
net profits are to be computed under this chapter, and, in the case of a return
for a fractional part of a year, the period for which the return is required to
be made.
      TAX COMMISSIONER. The Tax Commissioner of the municipality or the person
executing the duties of the aforesaid Commissioner.
      TAXPAYER. A person, whether an individual, partnership, association,
corporation or other entity, required by this chapter to file a return or pay a
tax.
      TAXABLE INCOME. Income minus the deductions and credits allowed by this
chapter. (See INCOME.)
   (b)   The singular shall include the plural, and the masculine shall include
the feminine and the neuter.
(Ord. 2004-154, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 2012-81, passed 11-26-2012)
§ 181.03 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (a)   Basis of imposition. Subject to the provisions of §
181.16 of this chapter and for the purposes specified in §
181.01 hereof, an annual tax, as provided in Ordinance 2004-154, passed
December 13, 2004 and as subsequently amended from time to time, shall be
imposed on and after January 1, 2005, at the rate of 1% per annum and on and
after January 1, 2013, at the rate of 1.12% per annum upon the following:
      (1)   On all income, qualifying wages, including sick and vacation pay,
commissions, bonuses, grievance pay, incentive payment, settlements, stock
options, severance pay, any pay as part of an employee buyout or wage
continuation plan, and other compensation earned or received during the
effective period of this chapter by residents;
      (2)   On all income, qualifying wages, including sick and vacation pay,
commissions, bonuses, grievance pay, incentive payment, settlements, stock
options, severance pay, any pay as part of an employee buyout or wage
continuation plan, and other compensation earned or received during the
effective period of this chapter, by non-residents for work done or service
performed in the municipality.
         A.   Effective January 1, 2005, Mason shall not tax the compensation
paid to a non-resident individual for personal services or work performed by
the individual in the municipality on 12 or fewer days in a calendar year
(which hereby classifies the individual as an “occasional entrant”) unless one
of the following applies:
            1.   The individual is the employee of another person, the
principal place of business in which the employee normally works is located in
another municipal corporation in this state that imposes a tax applying to
compensation paid to the individual for services performed on those days, and
the individual is not liable to that other municipal corporation for tax on the
compensation paid for the services; or
            2.   The individual is a professional athlete, the promoter of a
professional entertainment or sports event, or an employee of the promoter, all
as may be reasonably defined by the municipality.
         B.   For purposes of the 12-day calculation, any portion of a day
worked in the city shall be counted as one day worked in the city.
         C.   Beginning with the thirteenth day, the employer of the individual
shall begin withholding the city income tax from remuneration paid by the
employer to the individual, and shall remit the withheld income tax to the city
in accordance with §
181.06 of the income tax chapter. Since the individual can no longer be
considered to have been an occasional entrant, the employer is further required
to remit taxes on income earned in the city by the individual for the first 12
days. If the individual is self-employed or an independent contractor, it shall
be the responsibility of the individual to remit the appropriate income tax to
the municipality.
      (3)   A.   On the portion attributable to the municipality of the net
profits earned or received during the effective period of this chapter of all
resident associations, unincorporated businesses, professions, or other
entities, derived from sales made, work done or services performed or rendered,
or business or other activities conducted in the municipality; and
         B.   On a resident partner’s or owner’s share of the net profits
earned or received during the effective period of this chapter of a resident
association or other unincorporated entity not attributable to the municipality
and not levied against the association or other unincorporated entity.
      (4)   A.   On the portion attributable to the municipality of the net
profits, earned or received during the effective period of this chapter, of all
non-resident associations, unincorporated businesses, professions, or other
entities, derived from sales made, work done, or services performed or rendered
or business or other activities conducted in the municipality, whether or not
the association or other unincorporated entity has an office or place of
business in the municipality; and
         B.   On a resident partner’s or owner’s share of the net profits
earned or received during the effective period of this chapter of a non-
resident association or other unincorporated entity not attributable to the
municipality, and not levied against the association or other unincorporated
entity.
      (5)   On the net profits earned or received during the effective period
of this chapter of all corporations derived from sales made, work done, or
services performed or rendered, and business or other activities conducted in
the municipality whether or not the corporations have an office or place of
business in the municipality;
      (6)   Effective for tax years 2004 and later, the distributive share of
income paid to an S corporation shareholder shall be taxable in the following
manner:
         A.   If no portion of the net profits of the S corporation are
allocated or apportioned to the state, the distributive share is taxable only
to the extent that it represents wages or net earnings from self-employment;
and
         B.   If any portion of the net profits of the S corporation are
allocated or apportioned to the state, the full amount of the distributive
share is taxable.
      (7)   On all income from sports winnings by a resident of the
municipality. No regard is given to losses or to the location where the sports
winnings were received.
   (b)   Allocation of net profits. Net profit from a business or profession
conducted both within and without the boundaries of the municipality shall be
considered as having a taxable situs in the city for purposes of income
taxation in the same proportion as the average ratio of:
      (1)   Multiply the entire net profits of the business by a business
allocation percentage to be determined by:
         A.   Ascertaining the percentage with the average original cost of the
real and tangible personal property owned or used in the business and situated
within the municipality, during the period covered by the return is of the
average original cost of all the real and tangible personal property owned or
used in the business, wherever situated, during the period;
         B.   Ascertaining the percentage which the gross receipts of the
business from sales made and services performed in the municipality, during the
period covered by the return, are of the total gross receipts from all sales
and services, wherever made or performed, during the period. Wages, salaries
and other compensation shall be included to the extent that they represent
qualifying wages;
         C.   Ascertaining the percentage which the total wages, salaries,
commissions and other compensation paid, during the period covered by the
return, to employees for services performed in the municipality is of the total
wages, salaries, commissions and other compensation paid during the period to
all employees within and outside the municipality; and
         D.   Adding together the percentages determined in accordance with
divisions (b)(1)A., B. and C. above, or such of the aforesaid percentages as
are applicable to the particular taxpayer, and dividing the total so obtained
by the number of percentages used in deriving the total. A factor is applicable
even though it may be allocable entirely in or outside the municipality.
      (2)   In the event a just and equitable result cannot be obtained under
the formulas provided for herein, the Tax Commissioner shall, under uniform
regulations, have the authority to substitute other factors or methods
calculated to effect a fair and proper allocation.
   (c)   Operating loss carry-forward.
      (1)   The portion of a net operating loss sustained in any taxable year,
beginning with January 1, 1971, allocable to the municipality, may be applied
against the portion of the profit of succeeding tax years, allocable to the
municipality, until exhausted, but in no event for more than the five taxable
years immediately following the year in which the loss occurred. No portion of
a net operating loss shall be carried back against net profits of any prior
year.
      (2)   The portion of a net operation loss sustained shall be allocated to
the municipality in the same manner as provided herein for allocating net
profits to the municipality.
      (3)   The Tax Commissioner shall provide by rules and regulations the
manner in which the net operating loss carry-forward shall be determined.
   (d)   Consolidated returns.
      (1)   Any affiliated group which files a consolidated return for federal
income tax purposes pursuant to § 1501 of the Internal Revenue Code may file a
consolidated return with the municipality. However, once the affiliated group
has elected to file a consolidated return or a separate return with the
municipality, the affiliated group may not change their method of filing in any
subsequent tax year without written approval from the municipality.
      (2)   In the case of a corporation that carried on transactions with its
stockholders or with other corporations related by stock ownership,
interlocking directorates, or some other method, the Tax Commissioner shall
require the information, in addition to the return hereinafter provided for, as
he or she may deem necessary to ascertain whether net profits are properly
allocated to the municipality. If the Tax Commissioner finds net profits are
not properly allocated to the municipality by reason of transactions with
stockholders or with other corporations related by stock ownership,
interlocking directorates, or some other method, he or she may require the
filing of a consolidated return or adjust the transactions so as to produce a
fair and proper allocation of net profits to the municipality.
   (e)   Exemptions. The tax provided for herein shall not be levied on:
      (1)   Military pay or allowances of members of the armed forces of the
United States and of members of their reserve components, including the
National Guard and the Peace Corps;
      (2)   Pensions paid as a result of retirement, Social Security,
unemployment compensation and disability benefits received from private
industry or local, state or federal governments, or from charitable, religious
or educational organizations;
      (3)   Receipts by bona fide charitable, religious and educational
organizations and associations, when those receipts are from casual
entertainment, amusements, sports events and health and welfare activities
conducted by bona fide charitable, religious and educational organizations and
associations;
      (4)   The gross income and gross receipts of religious, fraternal,
charitable, scientific, literary or educational institutions to the extent that
the income is derived from tax exempt real estate, tax exempt tangible or
intangible property, or tax exempt activities;
      (5)   Unemployment insurance benefits, welfare benefits and workers’
compensation;
      (6)   Proceeds of insurance paid by reason of death of the insured;
retirement disability benefits, annuities or gratuities not in the nature of
compensation for services rendered from whatever source derived;
      (7)   Parsonage allowance, to the extent of the rental allowance or
rental value of a house provided as a part of an ordained minister’s
compensation;
      (8)   Gains from involuntary conversions, cancellation of indebtedness,
interest on federal obligations, items of income already taxed by the state and
income of a decedent’s estate during the period of administration (except the
income from the operation of a business);
      (9)   Expenses reported for Federal Form 2106, subject to audit and
approval by the municipality income tax office;
      (10)   Compensation paid under R.C. § 3501.28 or § 3501.36 to a person
serving as a precinct election official, to the extent that the compensation
does not exceed $1,000 annually;
      (11)   Income, salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation and
net profits, the taxation of which is prohibited by the United States
Constitution or any act of Congress limiting the power of the states or their
political subdivisions to impose net income taxes on income derived from
interstate commerce; and
      (12)   Salaries, wages, commissions, other compensation, other income and
net profits, including interest and dividends as provided in R.C. § 718.01, the
taxation of which is prohibited by the Constitution of the state or any act of
the Ohio General Assembly limiting the power of the municipality to impose net
income taxes.
(Ord. 2004-154, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 2012-81, passed 11-26-2012)
§ 181.04 EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be levied, collected, and paid with
respect to all income and net profits, subject to the tax, earned or received
on or after January 1, 1971.
(Ord. 2004-154, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 181.05 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (a)   Dates and exemptions. Each person regardless of age who is engaged in
business, or whose income, salary, wages, commissions or other compensation are
subject to the tax imposed by this chapter shall, for years prior to taxable
year 2004, whether or not a tax be due thereon, make and file a return with the
Tax Commissioner on or before April 30 of each year, and on or before April 15
for taxable years 2004 and later. A taxpayer on a fiscal year accounting basis
for federal income tax purposes shall, beginning with his or her first fiscal
year, any part of which falls within the effective period of this chapter, file
his or her return within 105 days from the end of the fiscal year or period.
However, each resident individual of the municipality who has no income subject
to the municipality’s income tax shall so indicate this fact on their income
tax return, including the reason(s) their income is not taxable and, if
authorized by the municipality, shall be relieved of filing future returns
unless and until the time the taxpayer receives income taxable to the
municipality. The Tax Commissioner is hereby authorized to provide by
regulation that the return of an employer or employers, showing the amount of
tax deducted by the employer or employers from the income, salaries, wages,
commissions or other compensation of an employee, and paid by him, her or them
to the Tax Commissioner may be accepted as the return required of any employee
whose sole income, subject to tax under this chapter, is the income, salary,
wages, commissions or other compensation.
   (b)   Returns and contents thereof. The return, including, W-2 and 1099
forms, shall be filed with the Tax Commissioner on a form or forms furnished by
or obtainable upon request from the Tax Commissioner setting forth:
      (1)   The aggregate amounts of income, qualifying wages, commissions and
other compensation earned, and gross receipts from any business, profession or
other activity, less allowable expenses incurred in the acquisition of the
gross income, earned during the preceding year and subject to the tax;
      (2)   The amount of the tax imposed by this chapter on the earnings and
profits; and
      (3)   Other pertinent statements, information returns or other
information as the Tax Commissioner may require, including, but not limited to,
copies of all W-2 forms, 1099 Miscellaneous Income Forms, page one of form
1040, page one and two of Form 1120, 1120S (including (K-1), 2106, 1065,
Schedule C (including cost of goods manufactured and/or sold), Schedule E,
Schedule F and any other applicable federal schedules.
   (c)   Generic form. The Municipal Income Tax Department shall accept a
generic form of its annual income tax return if the generic form once completed
and filed contains all of the information required to be submitted with the
municipality’s prescribed returns, reports or documents, and if the taxpayer or
return preparer filing the generic form otherwise complies with the rules or
ordinances of the municipality governing the filing of returns, reports or
documents.
   (d)   Extensions. The Tax Commissioner may extend the time for filing of the
annual return upon the request of the taxpayer for a period not to exceed six
months, or one month beyond any extension requested of or granted by the
Internal Revenue Service for filing of the federal income tax return for
taxable years prior to 2004. For taxable year 2004, the extended due date shall
be the last day of the month following the month to which the due date of the
federal income tax return has been extended for taxable years subsequent to
2004 the extended due date shall be the last day of the month to which the due
date of the federal income tax return has been extended. The extension request
may be made by filing a copy of the taxpayer’s request for a federal filing
extension, or by filing a written request. The Tax Commissioner may deny the
extension if the taxpayer’s income tax account with the municipality is
delinquent in any way. The Tax Commissioner may require a tentative return,
accompanied by payment of the amount of tax shown to be due thereon by the date
the return is normally due. No penalty or interest shall be assessed in those
cases in which the return is filed and the final tax paid within the period as
extended.
   (e)   Payment with returns.
      (1)   The taxpayer making a return shall at the time of the filing
thereof pay to the Tax Commissioner the amount of taxes shown as due thereon;
provided, however, that where any portion of the tax so due has been deducted
at the source, pursuant to the provisions of §
181.06 of this chapter; or where any portion of the tax shall have been paid by
the taxpayer, pursuant to the provisions of §
181.07 of this chapter, or where an income tax, creditable against the city tax
pursuant to §
181.15 hereof has been paid to another municipality, credit for the amount so
paid shall be deducted from the amount shown to be due and only the balance, if
any, shall be due and payable at the time of filing the return.
      (2)   A taxpayer who has overpaid the amount of tax to which the
municipality is entitled under the provisions of this chapter may have the
overpayment applied against any subsequent liability hereunder or at his or her
election indicated on the return, the overpayment, or part thereof, shall be
refunded, provided that no additional taxes or refunds of less than $3 shall be
collected or refunded.
   (f)   Amended returns.
      (1)   Where necessary, an amended return must be filed in order to report
additional income and pay any additional tax due, or claim a refund of tax
overpaid, subject to the requirements and limitations contained in §§
181.11 and
181.15. The amended returns shall be on a form obtainable on request from the
Tax Commissioner. A taxpayer may not change the method of accounting (i.e.,
cash or accrual) or apportionment of net profits after the due date for filing
the original return.
      (2)   Within three months from the final determination of any federal tax
liability affecting the taxpayer’s city tax liability, the taxpayer shall make
and file an amended the city return, showing income subject to the municipality
tax based upon the final determination of federal tax liability, and pay any
additional tax shown due thereon, or make claim for refund of any overpayment.
   (g)   Net loss. Any business, profession, association or corporation
reporting a net loss is subject to the filing requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-154, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 181.06 COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
   (a)   Withholding by employer. Each employer within, or doing business
within, the municipality, who employs one or more persons on a salary, wage,
commission or other compensation or other income basis shall deduct at the time
of the payment of the salaries, wages, commissions or other compensations, or
other income due by the employer to each employees the tax of 1%. Each employer
shall, on or before the fifteenth date of each month, make a return in such
detail as the Tax Commissioner may prescribe, and pay to the Commissioner the
tax withheld during the preceding month. However, the Commissioner may, when
authorized by rule of general application adopted by the Board of Review,
approve the filing of returns and payment of the tax withheld on a quarterly
basis if the total average monthly city tax withheld during the previous tax
year was less than $300. The return shall be on a form or forms prescribed by
or acceptable to the Tax Commissioner and shall be subject to the rules and
regulations prescribed by the Tax Commissioner. Effective January 1, 2005,
payments of withheld tax shall be deposited electronically, unless exemption
from this requirement is given by the Tax Commissioner.
   (b)   Employer considered as trustee. Each employer in collecting the tax
shall be deemed to hold the same, until payment is made by the employer to the
municipality, as a trustee for the benefit of the municipality, and any tax
collected by the employer from his or her employees shall, until the same is
paid to the municipality, be deemed a trust fund in the hands of the employer.
Each employee shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to be
deducted and withheld, whether or not the tax, in fact, has been withheld.
   (c)   Employees’ listings. On or before February 28 of each year, each
employer shall file a withholding return, on a form or forms prescribed by and
obtainable from the Tax Commissioner, setting forth the names, addresses and
Social Security numbers of all employees from whose compensation the tax was
withheld during the preceding calendar year, and the amount of tax withheld
from the listed employees and other information as may be required by the rules
and regulations adopted by the Tax Commissioner.
   (d)   Contractors and subcontractors. All employers that provide any
contractual service within the municipality, and who employ subcontractors in
conjunction with that service, shall provide the municipality the names and
addresses of the subcontractors. The subcontractors shall be responsible for
all income tax withholding requirements under this chapter.
   (e)   Domestic servants. No person shall be required to withhold the tax on
the wages or other compensation paid domestic servants employed exclusively in
or about the person’s residence. However, domestic servants shall be
responsible for filing and paying their own returns and taxes.
(Ord. 2004-154, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 181.07 DECLARATIONS.
   (a)   Requirement for filing. Every person who anticipates any taxable
income which is not subject to §
181.06 hereof, or engages in any business, profession, enterprise, or activity
subject to the tax imposed by §
181.03 hereof, shall file a declaration setting forth the estimated income or
the estimated profit or loss from the business activity, together with the
estimated tax due thereon, if any.
   (b)   Dates for filing.
      (1)   The declaration shall be filed on or before April 30 of each year,
and on or before April 15 for taxable years 2005 and later, during the life of
this chapter. No penalties or interest shall be assessed, for not filing a
declaration, on any resident taxpayer who was not domiciled in the municipality
on January 1 in the year in which they became subject to estimated payments,
nor shall penalties or interest be assessed on estimated payments if the
taxpayer has remitted an amount equal to 100% of the previous year’s tax
liability, provided that the previous year reflected a 12-month period.
      (2)   Those taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a
declaration within four months after the start of each fiscal year or period,
and within 105 days for taxable years 2005 and later.
   (c)   Forms – credit for tax withheld or paid another community.
      (1)   The declaration shall be filed upon a form furnished by or
obtainable from the Tax Commissioner, or on other forms deemed acceptable by
the Tax Commissioner. Credit shall be taken in the declaration for the city tax
to be withheld from any portion of the income and for income taxes to be paid
to another taxing municipality for which credit is allowed against the city tax
under §
181.15 hereof.
      (2)   Effective January 1, 2003, the declaration of estimated tax to be
paid the municipality by taxpayers who are individuals shall be accompanied by
a payment of at least one-fourth of the estimated tax and at least a similar
amount shall be paid on or before July 31 and October 31 of the taxable year,
and January 31 of following year.
      (3)   Effective January 1, 2003, the declaration of estimated tax to be
paid to the municipality by corporations and associations shall be accompanied
by a payment of at least one-fourth of the estimated tax and at least a similar
amount shall be paid on or before June 15, September 15 and December 15. In the
case of a fiscal year taxpayer the second, third and fourth quarterly estimated
payments shall be due on the fifteenth day of the sixth, ninth and twelfth
months of the taxable year, respectively.
   (d)   Amended declaration.
      (1)   An amended declaration must be filed on or before January 31 of any
year, or in the case of a taxpayer on a fiscal year accounting basis, on or
before the date fixed by regulation of the Tax Commissioner, if it appears that
the original declaration made for the year underestimated the taxpayer’s income
by 30% or more. At such times a payment which, together with prior payments, is
sufficient to pay taxpayer’s entire estimated liability, shall be made. If less
than 90% of the estimated annual tax liability has been received by the
municipality by January 31, and the amount received is less than 100% of the
previous year’s tax liability, the difference between the amount received and
90% of the tax liability shall be subject to the interest and penalty
provisions of §
181.10 hereof.
      (2)   A declaration may be amended at any time, provided, however, that
in case an amended declaration is filed, the unpaid balance shown due thereon
shall be paid in equal installments on or before the remaining payment dates.
   (e)   Annual return required. On or before the last day of the fourth month
of the calendar or fiscal year following that for which the declaration was
filed for taxable years 2004 and prior, and within 105 days of the calendar
year or fiscal year for taxable years 2005 and later, an annual return shall be
filed and any balance which may be due the municipality shall be paid therewith
in accordance with the provisions of §
181.05 hereof.
(Ord. 2004-154, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 181.08 DUTIES OF THE TAX COMMISSIONER.
   (a)   Collection and maintenance responsibility.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Tax Commissioner to collect and receive
the tax imposed by this chapter in the manner prescribed therein, and to keep
an accurate record thereof, and to report all moneys so received.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Tax Commissioner to enforce payment of
all income taxes owing the municipality, to keep accurate records for a minimum
of six years, showing the amount due from each taxpayer required to file a
declaration or make any return including a return of taxes withheld, and to
show the dates and amounts of payments thereof.
   (b)   Enforcement authority. The Tax Commissioner is hereby charged with the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, and is hereby empowered, subject
to the approval of the Board of Review, to adopt and promulgate and to enforce
rules and regulations authorized or required by this chapter, relating to any
matter or thing pertaining to the collection and payment of taxes and the
administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, including
provisions for the re-examination and correction of returns. Taxpayers are
hereby required to comply with the rules and regulations.
   (c)   Determination of taxes. In any case where a taxpayer has failed to
file a return or has filed a return which does not show the proper amount of
tax due, the Tax Commissioner may determine the amount of tax appearing to be
due the municipality from the taxpayer and shall send to the taxpayer a written
statement showing the amount of tax so determined, together with interest and
penalties thereon, if any. The assessment shall be collected in accordance with
the rules and regulations.
   (d)   Compromise authority. Subject to the consent of the Board of Review or
pursuant to regulation approved by the Board of Review, the Tax Commissioner
shall have the power to compromise any liability imposed by this chapter.
   (e)   Installment payments. The Tax Commissioner is authorized to arrange
for the payment of unpaid taxes, interest and penalties on a schedule of
installment payments not to exceed 36 months, when the taxpayer has proved to
the Tax Commissioner that, due to certain hardship conditions, he or she is
unable to pay the full amount of the tax due. The authorization shall not be
granted until the taxpayer files proper returns for all amounts owed by him or
her under this chapter. The Tax Commissioner shall determine the duration of
each installment payment plan. Any installment payment not paid by the due date
of the fifteenth of each month shall be charged additional interest at the rate
of 1/2% per month. Denial of an installment payment request by the Tax
Commissioner may be appealed to the Board of Review.
(Ord. 2004-154, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 181.09 INVESTIGATIVE POWERS OF THE TAX COMMISSIONER; PENALTY FOR DIVULGING
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (a)   Examination of taxpayers records. The Tax Commissioner, or any of his
or her authorized agents, is hereby authorized to examine the books, papers,
records and federal income tax returns of any employer, or taxpayer or any
person subject to, or whom the Tax Commissioner believes subject to, the
provisions of this chapter, for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any
withholdings due under this chapter. Every employer, supposed employer,
taxpayer or supposed taxpayer, is hereby directed and required to furnish,
within ten calendar days following a written request of the Tax Commissioner,
or his or her duly authorized agent or employees, the means, facilities, and
opportunity for making the examinations and investigations as are hereby
authorized.
   (b)   Appearance orders to taxpayers. The Tax Commissioner is hereby
authorized to order any person, presumed to have knowledge of the facts, to
appear at the office of the Tax Commissioner and to examine the person, under
oath, concerning any income which was or should have been returned for
taxation, or withheld, or any transaction tending to affect the income, and for
this purpose may compel the production of books, papers, records, and federal
and state income tax returns, and the attendance of all persons before him or
her, whether as parties or witnesses, whenever he or she believes the persons
have knowledge of the income or information pertinent to the inquiry.
   (c)   Result of refusal to submit information.  The refusal to produce
books, papers, records and federal and state income tax returns, or the refusal
to submit to the examination by any employer or person subject, or presumed to
be subject, to the tax or by any officer, agent or employee of a person subject
to the tax or required to withhold tax, or the failure of any person to comply
with the provisions of this section or with an order or subpoena of the Tax
Commissioner authorized hereby shall be deemed a violation of this chapter
punishable as provided in §
181.99 hereof.
   (d)   Retention of records by taxpayer. Every taxpayer shall retain all
records necessary to compute his or her tax liability for a period of six years
from the date his or her return is filed or the taxes required to be withheld
are paid.
   (e)   Confidential nature of information. Any information gained as a result
of any returns, investigations, hearings, or verifications required or
authorized by this chapter shall be confidential, and no disclosure thereof
shall be made except to municipal, county, state, or federal taxing agencies,
or, except for official tax purposes, or except in accordance with proper
judicial order. Any person divulging information in violation of this section
shall be fined not more than $500 and imprisoned not more than six months, or
both, for each offense. Each disclosure shall constitute a separate offense. In
addition to the above penalty, any employee of the municipality who violates
the provisions of this section relative to the disclosure of confidential
information shall be guilty of an offense punishable by immediate dismissal.
(Ord. 2004-154, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 181.10 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (a)   Interest. All taxes imposed and moneys withheld or required to be
withheld by employers under the provisions of this chapter, remaining unpaid
after they become due, shall bear interest at the rate of 1/2% per month.
   (b)   Penalties. In addition to interest as provided in division (a) hereof,
penalties for failure to pay taxes and to withhold and remit taxes pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter are hereby imposed as follows.
      (1)   In the case of taxpayers failing to pay the full amount of tax due,
a penalty of the higher of: (a) $20; or (b) 1% per month, of the amount of the
unpaid tax, if the tax is paid during the first six months after the tax became
due; a penalty of 2% per month of the unpaid tax, if the tax is paid between
the seventh and twelfth months after the tax became due; and a penalty of 4%
per month of the amount of the unpaid tax, if the tax is paid later than 12
months after it became due. The percentages herein specified, when used, shall
apply from the first month of delinquency.
      (2)   In the case of employers who fail to withhold and remit to the Tax
Commissioner the taxes to be withheld from employees, a penalty of the higher
of: (a) $50; or (b) 2% per month of the unpaid withholding, if paid during the
first three months after it was due; a penalty of 4% per month of the unpaid
withholding, if paid during the fourth to sixth month, inclusive, after it was
due; and a penalty of 5% per month of the unpaid withholding, if paid later
than six months after it was due.
   (c)   Exceptions. A penalty shall not be assessed or an additional tax
assessment made by the Tax Commissioner when a return has been filed in good
faith and the tax paid thereon within the time prescribed by the Tax
Commissioner; and provided further that, in the absence of fraud, neither
penalty nor interest shall be assessed on any additional tax assessment
resulting from a federal audit, providing an amended return is filed and the
additional tax is paid within three months after final determination of the
federal tax liability.
   (d)   Abatement by Board of Review. Upon an appeal from the refusal of the
Tax Commissioner to recommend abatement of penalty and/or interest, the Board
of Review may abate the penalty or interest, or both.
(Ord. 2004-154, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 181.11 COLLECTION OF UNPAID TAXES AND REFUNDS OF OVER-PAYMENTS.
   (a)   Time limitation on suits. All taxes imposed by this chapter shall be
collectible, together with any interest and penalties thereon, by suit as other
debts of like amount are recoverable. Except in the case of fraud, omission of
25% or more of income subject to this tax, or failure to file a return, an
additional assessment shall not be made after three years from the time the
return was due or filed, whichever is later. In a case of a return that omits
gross income in excess of 25% of that required to be reported, or in the case
of filing a false or fraudulent return with intent to evade the tax, or in the
case of a failure to file a return all additional assessments shall be made and
all prosecutions to recover municipal income taxes and penalties and interest
thereon shall be brought within six years after the tax was due or the return
was filed, whichever is later. In those cases in which the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue and the taxpayer have executed a waiver of the federal statute
of limitations the period within which an additional assessment may be made by
the Tax Commissioner shall be extended one year from the time of the final
determination of the federal tax liability.
   (b)   Responsibility of officers and employees.  Those officers or employees
having control or supervision of, or charged with, the responsibility of filing
the return and making payments for a corporation or association shall be
personally liable for failure to file the return or pay the taxes and penalties
and interest due as required. The dissolution, bankruptcy, or reorganization of
any employer does not discharge the officers’ or employees’ liability for a
prior failure of the business to file a return or pay the taxes due.
   (c)   Time and amount limitation on refunds.  Taxes erroneously paid shall
not be refunded unless a claim for refund is made within three years from the
date on which the payment was made or the return was due, or within three
months after final determination of the federal tax liability, whichever is
later. However, the following shall apply regarding refunds of tax withheld
from non-qualified deferred compensation plans (NDCP).
      (1)   A taxpayer may be eligible for a refund if the taxpayer has
suffered a loss from a NDCP. The loss will be considered sustained only in the
taxable year in which the taxpayer receives the final distribution of money and
property pursuant to the NDCP. Full loss is sustained if no distribution of
money and property will be made by the NDCP.
      (2)   A taxpayer who receives income as a result of payments from a NDCP,
and that income is less than the amount of income deferred to the NDCP and upon
which municipal tax was withheld, then a refund will be issued on the amount
representing the difference between the deferred income that was taxed and the
income received from the NDCP. If different tax rates applied to the tax years
in which deferrals, a weighted average of the different tax rates will be used
to compute the refund amount.
      (3)   Refunds shall be allowed only if the loss is attributable to the
bankruptcy of the employer who had established the NDCP, or the employee’s
failure or inability to satisfy all of the employer’s terms and conditions
necessary to receive the nonqualified compensation.
   (d)   Income tax that has been deposited with the city, but should have been
deposited with another municipality. Income tax that has been deposited with
the city, but should have been deposited with another municipality, is
allowable by the city as a refund but is subject to the three-year limitation
on refunds. Income tax that should have been deposited with the city, but was
deposited with another municipality, shall be subject to recovery by the city.
The city will allow a non-refundable credit for any amount owed the city that
is in excess of the amount to be refunded by the other municipality, as long as
the tax rate of the other municipality is the same or higher than the city’s
tax rate. If the city’s tax rate is higher, the tax representing the net
difference of the rates is also subject to collection by the city.
   (e)   Taxes or refunds. Taxes or refunds of less than $1 shall not be
collected or refunded.
(Ord. 2004-154, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 181.12 RESERVED.
§ 181.13 BOARD OF REVIEW.
   (a)   Composition. A Board of Review consisting of three persons, appointed
by the Mayor, with the consent of Council, is hereby created. Board members
shall receive compensation as Council may determine.
   (b)   Procedure. A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a
quorum. The Board shall adopt its own procedural rules and shall keep a record
of its transactions. All hearings by the Board shall be conducted privately
unless the taxpayer requests a public hearing, and the provisions of §
181.09 hereof with reference to the confidential character of information
required to be disclosed by the chapter shall apply to matters as may be heard
before the Board on appeal.
   (c)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any person dissatisfied with any ruling or decision of the Tax
Commissioner which is made under the authority conferred by this chapter may
appeal therefrom to the Board of Review within 30 days from the announcement of
the ruling or decision by the Tax Commissioner, provided the taxpayer making
the appeal has filed with the municipality the required return or other
documents concerning the obligation at issue. The appeal shall be in writing
and shall state why the decision should be deemed incorrect or unlawful. The
Board shall, on hearing, have jurisdiction to affirm, reverse or modify any
ruling or decision, or any part thereof. The hearing shall be scheduled within
45 days from the date of appeal. The Board’s ruling must be made within 30 days
from the date of the closing of the record, shall be in writing and filed with
the Tax Administrator, and within 15 days of its decision shall send notice of
its decision by ordinary mail to the taxpayer making the appeal.
      (2)   Any person dissatisfied with any ruling or decision of the Board of
Review may appeal therefrom to a court of competent jurisdiction within 30 days
from the announcement of the ruling or decision. For matters relating to tax
years beginning on or after January 1, 2004, any ruling or decision of the
Board of Appeal may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction or to the
State Board of Tax Appeals.
(Ord. 2004-154, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 181.14 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   The funds collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be deposited
in the General Fund and shall be appropriated and disbursed in the order
established from time to time, by separate resolution of the Municipal Council.
(Ord. 2004-154, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 181.15 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID TO ANOTHER MUNICIPALITY AND FOR RESIDENT
HOMEOWNERS.
   (a)   Limitation on amount paid. Every individual taxpayer who resides in
the municipality and who receives income, qualifying wages, commissions or
other compensation or net profits from sales made, work done, or services
performed or rendered outside of the municipality, if it be made to appear that
he or she has paid a municipal income tax on income, taxable under this
chapter, to another municipality, shall be allowed a credit for the tax paid to
the other municipality, against the tax imposed by this chapter in an amount
not to exceed the following:
      (1)   Fifty percent of the income and/or earnings taxes paid and owed to
another municipality for tax year 2006 and prior;
      (2)   Sixty-five percent of the income and/or earnings taxes paid and
owed to another municipality for tax year 2007;
      (3)   Eighty percent of the income and/or earnings taxes paid and owed to
another municipality for tax year 2008;
      (4)   Ninety percent of the income and/or earnings taxes paid and owed to
another municipality for tax year 2009; and
      (5)   One hundred percent of the income and/or earnings taxes paid and
owed to another municipality for tax year 2010 and later.
(Ord. 31-1984, passed 4-9-1984; Ord. 2007-117, passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 2007-174,
passed 11-26- 2007)
   (b)   Resident homeowners. Residents who own or have an equity interest into
the real estate that the resident is domiciled and pay real estate taxes shall
be allowed an exemption to be given as credit equal to 0.12% per annum. The
resident's dependent shall also receive the credit equal to 0.12% per annum.
   (c)   Credits and limitations thereof.  Notwithstanding the provisions
contained in §
181.11 hereof, or any other provisions inconsistent herewith, a claim for
refund or credit under this section shall be made in a manner as the Tax
Commissioner may by regulation provide.
(Ord. 50-1970, passed 9-28-1970; Ord. 2012-81, passed 11-26-2012)
§ 181.16 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   This chapter shall not apply to any person, firm or corporation, or to any
property as to whom or which it is beyond the power of Council to impose the
tax herein provided for. Any sentence, clause, section, or part of this chapter
or any tax against or exception granted any individual or any of the several
groups of persons, or forms of income specified herein if found to be
unconstitutional or illegal or invalid, the unconstitutionality, illegality or
invalidity shall affect only the clause, sentence, section or part of this
chapter and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions,
sentences, clauses, sections or other parts of this chapter. It is hereby
declared to be the intention of Council of the municipality that this chapter
would have been adopted had the unconstitutional, illegal, or invalid sentence
or part hereof, not been included therein.
(Ord. 2004-154, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 181.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Enumeration of violations and penalties.  Any person who shall do any
of the following shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall
be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both,
for each offense:
      (1)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this chapter;
      (2)   Make an incomplete, false or fraudulent return;
      (3)   Fail, neglect or refuse to pay the tax, penalties, or interest
imposed by this chapter;
      (4)   Fail, neglect or refuse to withhold the tax from his or her
employees and remit the withholding tax to the Tax Commissioner;
      (5)   Refuse to permit the Tax Commissioner or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his or her employer’s books, records, papers and federal
income tax returns;
      (6)   Fail to appear before the Tax Commissioner and to produce his or
her employer’s books, records, papers or federal income tax returns upon order
or subpoena of the Tax Commissioner;
      (7)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Commissioner any information with
respect to the person’s or the person’s employer’s income or net profits;
      (8)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Commissioner; or
      (9)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any payment on the estimated tax
for any year as required by §
181.07;
      (10)   Fail, as president or treasurer of a corporation, to cause the tax
withheld from the wages of the employees of the corporation pursuant to this
chapter to be paid to the municipality in accordance with the provisions of §
181.06 hereof; or
      (11)   Attempt to do anything whatever to avoid the payment of the whole
or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this chapter.
   (b)   Time limitation on prosecutions. All prosecutions under this section
must be commenced within the period stipulated in R.C. § 718.12.
   (c)   Failure to obtain forms not a defense. The failure of any employer,
taxpayer or person to receive or procure a return, declaration or other
required form shall not excuse him or her from making any information return,
or declaration, from filing the form or from paying the tax.
   (d)   Responsibility of corporation employees.  The term PERSON as used in
this section shall, in addition to the meaning prescribed in §
181.02 of this chapter, include in the case of an association or corporation
not having any partner, member or officer within the municipality, any employee
or agent of the association or corporation who can be found within the
corporate limits of the municipality.
(Ord. 2004-154, passed 12-13-2004)
CHAPTER 182: INCOME TAX REGULATIONS EFFECTIVE BEGINNING JANUARY 1, 2016
Section
   
182.01   Authority to levy tax; purposes of tax; rate; applicability and
effective date
      
182.011   Authority to levy tax
      
182.012   Purposes of tax; rate
      
182.013   Allocation of funds
      
182.014   Applicability and effective date
   
182.02   Statement of procedural history; state mandated changes to municipal
income tax
   
182.03   Definitions
   
182.04   Income subject to tax for individuals
      
182.041   Determining municipal taxable income for individuals
      
182.042   Domicile
      
182.043   Exemption for member or employee of General Assembly and certain
judges
   
182.05   Collection at source
      
182.051   Collection at source; withholding from qualifying wages
      
182.052   Collection at source; occasional entrant
   
182.06   Income subject to net profit tax
      
182.061   Determining municipal taxable income for taxpayers who are not
individuals
      
182.062   Net profit; income subject to net profit tax; alternative
apportionment
      
182.063   Consolidated federal income tax return
      
182.064   Tax credit for businesses that foster new jobs in Ohio
      
182.065   Tax credits to foster job retention
   
182.07   Declaration of estimated tax
   
182.08   Credit for tax paid
      
182.081   Credit for tax paid to another municipality and for resident
homeowners
      
182.082   Refundable credit for qualifying loss
      
182.083   Credit for tax beyond statute for obtaining refund
   
182.09   Annual return
      
182.091   Return and payment of tax
      
182.092   Return and payment of tax; individuals serving in combat zone
      
182.093   Use of Ohio Business Gateway; types of filings authorized
      
182.094   Extension of time to file
      
182.095   Amended returns
      
182.096   Refunds
      
182.097   Taxpayer election to be subject to R.C. §§ 718.80 to 718.95
   
182.10   Penalty, interest, fees, and charges
   
182.11   Audit
   
182.12   Rounding
   
182.13   Authority and powers of the Tax Administrator
      
182.131   Authority of Tax Administrator; right to examine
      
182.132   Authority of Tax Administrator; compromise of claim and payment over
time
      
182.133   Authority of Tax Administrator; administrative powers of the Tax
Administrator
      
182.134   Authority of Tax Administrator; requiring identifying information
   
182.14   Confidentiality
   
182.15   Fraud
   
182.16   Opinion of the Tax Administrator
   
182.17   Assessment; appeal based on presumption of delivery
   
182.18   Local Board of Tax Review; appeal to Local Board of Tax Review
   
182.19   Actions to recover; statute of limitations
   182.20   Adoption of rules
   
182.21   Report of property rentals and leases required
      
182.212   Penalty for not reporting
   
182.96   Amendments and supplements
 
   
182.97   Collection of tax after termination of chapter
   
182.98   Savings clause
   
182.99   Violations; penalty
Charter reference:
   Limitation on tax rate, see Charter §
10.02
Cross-reference:
   Earned income tax regulations effective through December 31, 2015, see
Ch. 181
Statutory reference:
   Municipal income taxes, see R.C. Ch. 718
   Payroll deductions, see R.C. § 9.42
   Power to levy income tax, see Ohio Const. Art. XVIII, § 3
§ 182.01 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX; PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE; APPLICABILITY AND
EFFECTIVE DATE.
§ 182.011 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX.
   (A)   The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this Chapter
182 are authorized by Article XVIII, § 3 of the Ohio Constitution. The tax on
income and the withholding tax including credits established by this Chapter
182 are authorized and limited by §
10.04 of the Mason Charter approved by the electors on May 6, 1986 and November
6, 2007, §
10.05 of the Mason Charter approved by the electors on November 6, 2012, and
Ordinance 2004-108 approved by the electors on November 2, 2004. The tax on
income and the withholding tax established by this Chapter 182 are deemed to be
levied in accordance with, and to be consistent with, the provisions and
limitations of Ohio Revised Code 718 (R.C. Chapter 718). This chapter is deemed
to incorporate the provisions of R.C. Chapter 718.
   (B)   The tax is an annual tax levied on the income of every person residing
in or earning or receiving income in the municipal corporation, and shall be
measured by municipal taxable income. The Municipality shall tax income at a
uniform rate. The tax is levied on municipal taxable income, as defined herein.
   (C)   The income tax at the rate of 1.12% shall be levied, collected and
paid with respect to the qualifying wages, commissions, and other compensation
earned or deemed to be received on or after January 1, 2016, and with respect
to the net profits of business, professions or other activities earned on or
after January 1, 2016. The income tax rate of 1.12% shall be levied, collected
and paid with respect to: all prizes, awards, sweepstakes, or other income
associated with any lottery winnings, gambling and sports winnings, or other
similar games of chance; and all prizes, awards and winnings paid to residents
of the city by state lottery commissions.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.012 PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE.
   A municipal income tax is hereby levied to provide funds for general
operations, maintenance, new equipment, municipal services and facilities, and
capital improvements of the Municipality at the rate of 1.12% per §§
182.04,
182.05, and
182.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.013 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   To provide funds for the purposes of general municipal operations,
maintenance, new equipment, extension and enlargement of municipal services and
facilities, and capital improvements of the City of Mason there shall be, and
is hereby, levied a tax on income, salaries, wages, commissions, and other
compensation, and on net profits as hereinafter provided. The funds collected
under the provisions of this ordinance shall be deposited in the General Fund
and shall be appropriated and disbursed in the order established from time to
time, by separate resolution of the Municipal Council.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.014 APPLICABILITY AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)    The effective date of the provisions of this
Chapter 182, excluding provision
182.97, shall be January 1, 2016, and shall apply to municipal taxable years
beginning on or after January 1, 2016.
   (B)   The enactment of this
Chapter 182 does not repeal the existing sections of
Chapter 181 for any taxable year prior to 2016. For municipal taxable years
beginning before January 1, 2016, the Municipality shall continue to
administer, audit, and enforce the income tax of the Municipality under
Municipality Code
Chapter 181 and R.C. Chapter 718 as it existed before January 1, 2016.
   (C)   Ordinance 2018-30 amends Chapter 182 and incorporates additional
changes to R.C. Chapter 718 by 132nd General Assembly, H.B. 49, § 101.01, eff.
September 29, 2017, applicable for tax years beginning on or after January 1,
2018. Changes are effective for tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2018
and are noted in the appropriate sections in this
Chapter 182.
   (D)   Provisions
182.03(BB2) and
182.03(YY) - definition of "pension" and "retirement plan" are effective for
tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2020.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 2018-30, passed 2-26-2018; Ord. 2019-
149, passed 12-9- 2019)
§ 182.02 STATEMENT OF PROCEDURAL HISTORY; STATE MANDATED CHANGES TO MUNICIPAL
INCOME TAX.
   (A)   Significant and wide-ranging amendments to R.C. Chapter 718 were
enacted by Am. Sub. H.B. 5, passed by the 130th General Assembly, and signed by
Governor Kasich on December 19, 2014, and H.B. 5 required municipal
corporations to conform to and adopt the provisions of R.C. Chapter 718 in
order to have the authority to impose, enforce, administer and collect a
municipal income tax.
   (B)   As mandated by H.B. 5, municipal income tax Ordinance 2015-110,
effective January 1, 2016, enacted Chapter 182 in accordance with the
provisions of R.C. Chapter 718 to allow the Municipality to continue the income
tax and withholding tax administration and collection efforts on behalf of the
Municipality.
   (C)   Businesses may elect to be subject to R.C. §§ 718.80 to 718.95 which
will designate the State of Ohio Tax Commissioner as the administrator of the
municipal net profit tax(es). (Ordinance 2018-30 effective January 1, 2018)
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 2018-30, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 182.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Any term used in this chapter that is not otherwise defined in this chapter
has the same meaning as when used in a comparable context in laws of the United
States relating to federal income taxation or in R.C. Title LVII, unless a
different meaning is clearly required. If a term used in this chapter that is
not otherwise defined in this chapter is used in a comparable context in both
the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax and in R.C. Title
LVII and the use is not consistent, then the use of the term in the laws of the
United States relating to federal income tax shall control over the use of the
term in R.C. Title LVII.
   For purposes of this section, the singular shall include the plural, and the
masculine shall include the feminine and the gender-neutral.
   As used in this chapter:
   (A)   ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME, for a person required to file as a C
corporation, or for a person that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation
under division (W)(4) of this section, means a C corporation’s federal taxable
income before net operating losses and special deductions as determined under
the Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal taxable
income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the intangible
income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held for the
production of income;
      (2)   Add an amount equal to 5% of intangible income deducted under
division (1)(A) of this section, but excluding that portion of intangible
income directly related to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of property
described in § 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (3)   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal
taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other
disposition of an asset described in § 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue
Code;
      (4)   (a)   Except as provided in division (A)(4)(b) of this section,
deduct income and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the
income and gain directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of
an asset described in § 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (b)   Division (A)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to the extent
the income or gain is income or gain described in § 1245 or 1250 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
      (5)   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income;
      (6)   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to, or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and
allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income;
      (7)   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under R.C. § 4313.02;
      (8)   (a)   Except as limited by divisions (A)(8)(b), (c) and (d) of this
section, deduct any net operating loss incurred by the person in a    taxable
year beginning on or after January 1, 2017. The amount of such net operating
loss shall be deducted from net profit that is reduced by exempt income to the
extent necessary to reduce municipal taxable income to zero, with any remaining
unused portion of the net operating loss carried forward to not more than five
consecutive taxable years following the taxable year in which the loss was
incurred, but in no case for more years than necessary for the deduction to be
fully utilized.
         (b)   No person shall use the deduction allowed by division (A)(8)(a)
of this section to offset qualifying wages.
         (c)   (i)   For taxable years beginning in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, or
2022, a person may not deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a
municipal corporation that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, more
than 50% of the amount of the deduction otherwise allowed by division (A)(8)(a)
of this section,
            (ii)   For taxable years beginning in 2023 or thereafter, a person
may deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a municipal corporation
that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, the full amount allowed by
division (A)(8)(a) of this section.
         (d)   Any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward deduction that is
available may be utilized before a taxpayer may deduct any amount pursuant to
division (A)(8)(a) of this section.
         (e)   Nothing in division (A)(8)(c)(i) of this section precludes a
person from carrying forward, for use with respect to any return filed for a
taxable year beginning after 2018, any amount of net operating loss that was
not fully utilized by operation of division (A)(8)(c)(i) of this section. To
the extent that an amount of net operating loss that was not fully utilized in
one or more taxable years by operation of division (A)(8)(c)(i) of this section
is carried forward for use with respect to a return filed for a taxable year
beginning in 2019, 2020, 2021, or 2022, the limitation described in division
(A)(8)(c)(i) of this section shall apply to the amount carried forward.
         (f)   Any person utilizing a post-2017 net operating loss carryforward
deduction shall submit with the return reflecting said deduction a schedule
detailing the calculation and application of the net operating loss
carryforward.
         (g)   No portion of a net operating loss shall be carried back against
net profits of any prior year.
      (9)   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
182.063(E)(3)(b) of this chapter;
      (10)   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income
         unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in the
group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
182.063(E)(3)(b) of this chapter;
      (11)   Add any deduction for pass- through entity not allowed as a
deduction for C corporation under the Internal Revenue Code.
   If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a publicly traded partnership
that has made the election described in division (W)(4) of this section, and is
not an individual, the taxpayer shall compute adjusted federal taxable income
under this section as if the taxpayer were a C corporation, except guaranteed
payments and other similar amounts paid or accrued to a partner, former
partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member shall not be
allowed as a deductible expense unless such payments are in consideration for
the use of capital and treated as payment of interest under § 469 of the
Internal Revenue Code or United States Treasury regulations. Amounts paid or
accrued to a qualified self-employed retirement plan with respect to a partner,
former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member of
the taxpayer, amounts paid or accrued to or for health insurance for a partner,
former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member, and
amounts paid or accrued to or for life insurance for a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member shall not be allowed
as a deduction.
   Nothing in division (A) of this section shall be construed as allowing the
taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be construed as
allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for purposes of
federal self-employment tax.
   (B)   (1)   ASSESSMENT means any of the following:
         (a)   A written finding by the Tax Administrator that a person has
underpaid municipal income tax, or owes penalty and interest, or any
combination of tax, penalty, or interest, to the municipal corporation;
         (b)   A full or partial denial of a
            refund request issued under §
182.096(B)(2) of this chapter;
         (c)   A Tax Administrator’s denial of a taxpayer’s request for use of
an alternative apportionment method, issued under §
182.062(B)(2) of this chapter; or
         (d)   A Tax Administrator’s requirement for a taxpayer to use an
alternative apportionment method, issued under §
182.062(B)(3) of this chapter.
         (e)   For purposes of division (B)(1)(a), (b), (c) and (d) of this
section, an assessment shall commence the person’s time limitation for making
an appeal to the Local Board of Tax Review pursuant to §
182.18 of this chapter, and shall have “ASSESSMENT” written in all capital
letters at the top of such finding.
      (2)   ASSESSMENT does not include notice(s) denying a request for refund
issued under §
182.096(B)(3) of this chapter, a billing statement notifying a taxpayer of
current or past-due balances owed to the municipal corporation, a Tax
Administrator’s request for additional information, a notification to the
taxpayer of mathematical errors, or a Tax Administrator’s other written
correspondence to a person or taxpayer that does not meet the criteria
prescribed by division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   AUDIT means the examination of a person or the inspection of the
books, records, memoranda, or accounts of a person, ordered to appear before
the Tax Administrator, for the purpose of determining liability for a municipal
income tax.
   (D)   BOARD OF REVIEW has same meaning as “Local Board of Tax Review.”
   (E)   CALENDAR QUARTER means the three-month period ending on the last day
of March, June, September, or December.
   (F)   CASINO OPERATOR and CASINO FACILITY have the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 3772.01.
   (G)   CERTIFIED MAIL, EXPRESS MAIL, UNITED STATES MAIL, POSTAL SERVICE, and
similar terms include any delivery service authorized pursuant to R.C. §
5703.056.
   (H)   COMPENSATION means any form of remuneration paid to an employee for
personal services.
   (I)   DISREGARDED ENTITY means a single member limited liability company, a
qualifying subchapter S subsidiary, or another entity if the company,
subsidiary, or entity is a disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes.
   (J)   DOMICILE means the true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer to
which, whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
   (K)   EXEMPT INCOME means all of the following:
      (1)   The military pay or allowances of members of the Armed Forces of
the United States or members of their reserve components, including the
National Guard of any state.
      (2)   (a)   Intangible income, as described in division (O) of this
section.
      (3)   Social Security benefits, railroad retirement benefits,
unemployment compensation, pensions, retirement benefit payments, payments from
annuities, and similar payments made to an employee or to the beneficiary of an
employee under a retirement program or plan, disability payments received from
private industry or local, state, or federal governments or from charitable,
religious or educational organizations, and the proceeds of sickness, accident,
or liability insurance policies. As used in division (K)(3) of this section,
UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION does not include supplemental unemployment
compensation described in § 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (4)   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific,
literary, or educational institutions to the extent such income is derived from
tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property, or tax-
exempt activities.
      (5)   Compensation paid under R.C. § 3501.28 or 3501.36 to a person
serving as a precinct election official to the extent that such compensation
does not exceed $1,000 for the taxable year. Such compensation in excess of
$1,000 for the taxable year may be subject to taxation by a municipal
corporation. A municipal corporation shall not require the payer of such
compensation to withhold any tax from that compensation.
      (6)   Dues, contributions, and similar payments received by charitable,
religious, educational, or literary organizations or labor unions, lodges, and
similar organizations.
      (7)   Alimony and child support received.
      (8)   Awards for personal injuries or for damages to property from
insurance proceeds or otherwise, excluding compensation paid for lost salaries
or wages or awards for punitive damages.
      (9)   Income of a public utility when that public utility is subject to
the tax levied under R.C. § 5727.24 or 5727.30. Division (K)(9) of this section
does not apply for purposes of R.C. Chapter 5745.
      (10)   Gains from involuntary conversions, interest on federal
obligations, items of income subject to a tax levied by the state and that a
municipal corporation is specifically prohibited by law from taxing, and income
of a decedent’s estate during the period of administration except such income
from the operation of a trade or business.
      (11)   Compensation or allowances excluded from federal gross income
under § 107 of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (12)   Employee compensation that is not qualifying wages as defined in
division (GG) of this section.
      (13)   Compensation paid to a person employed within the boundaries of a
United States Air Force base under the jurisdiction of the United States Air
Force that is used for the housing of members of the United States Air Force
and is a center for Air Force operations, unless the person is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile. If the compensation is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile, tax on such income shall be payable
only to the municipal corporation of residence or domicile.
      (14)   Intentionally left blank.
      (15)   Intentionally left blank.
      (16)   (a)   Except as provided in divisions (K)(16)(b), (c), and (d) of
this section, qualifying wages described in §
182.052(B)(1) or (E) of this chapter to the extent the qualifying wages are not
subject to withholding for the Municipality under either of those divisions.
         (b)   The exemption provided in division (K)(16)(a) of this section
does not apply with respect to the municipal corporation in which the employee
resided at the time the employee earned the qualifying wages.
         (c)   The exemption provided in division (K)(16)(a) of this section
does not apply to qualifying wages that an employer elects to withhold under §
182.052(D)(2) of this chapter.
         (d)   The exemption provided in division (K)(16)(a) of this section
does not apply to qualifying wages if both of the following conditions apply:
            (i)   For qualifying wages described in §
182.052(B)(1) of this chapter, the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax
on the qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee’s
principal place of work is situated, or, for qualifying wages described in §
182.052(E) of this chapter, the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax on
the qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employer’s fixed
location is located.
            (ii)   The employee receives a refund of the tax described in
division (K)(16)(a) of this section on the basis of the employee not performing
services in that municipal corporation.
      (17)   (a)   Except as provided in division (K)(17)(b) or (c) of this
section, compensation that is not qualifying wages paid to a nonresident
individual for personal services performed in the Municipality on not more than
20 days in a taxable year.
         (b)   The exemption provided in division (K)(17)(a) of this section
does not apply under either of the following circumstances:
            (i)   The individual’s base of operation is located in the
Municipality.
            (ii)   The individual is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the compensation is paid for the performance
of services in the individual’s capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure. For purposes of division (K)(17)(b)
(ii) of this section, PRO-FESSIONAL ATHLETE, PROFESSIONAL ENTER-TAINER, and
PUBLIC FIGURE have the same meanings as in §
182.052 of this chapter.
         (c)   Compensation to which division (K)(17) of this section applies
shall be treated as earned or received at the individual’s base of operation.
If the individual does not have a base of operation, the compensation shall be
treated as earned or received where the individual is domiciled.
         (d)   For purposes of division (K)(17) of this section, BASE OF
OPERATION means the location where an individual owns or rents an office,
storefront, or similar facility to which the individual regularly reports and
at which the individual regularly performs personal services for compensation.
      (18)   Compensation paid to a person for personal services performed for
a political subdivision on property owned by the political subdivision,
regardless of whether the compensation is received by an employee of the
subdivision or another person performing services for the subdivision under a
contract with the subdivision, if the property on which services are performed
is annexed to a municipal corporation pursuant to R.C. § 709.023 on or after
March 27, 2013, unless the person is subject to such taxation because of
residence. If the compensation is subject to taxation because of residence,
municipal income tax shall be payable only to the municipal corporation of
residence.
      (19)   If exempt for federal income tax purposes, fellowships,
scholarships, stipends, and grants are also exempt from municipal taxable
income.
      (20)   Income the taxation of which is prohibited by the constitution or
laws of the United States.
   (L)   FORM 2106 means Internal Revenue Service form 2106 filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   (M)   GENERIC FORM means an electronic or paper form that is not prescribed
by a particular municipal corporation and that is designed for reporting taxes
withheld by an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, estimated
municipal income taxes, or annual municipal income tax liability, including a
request for refund.
   (N)   INCOME means the following:
      (1)   (a)   For residents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions, prizes, awards, sweepstakes, and other income associated with any
lottery winnings, gambling and sports winnings, or other similar games of
chance and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by the
resident, including the resident’s distributive share of the net profit of
pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the resident, ordinary
income from form 4797, and any net profit of the resident, except as provided
in division (W)(4) of this section. If the taxpayer is a professional gambler
for federal income tax purposes, the taxpayer may deduct related wagering
losses and expenses to the extent authorized under the Internal Revenue Code
and claimed against such winnings. Credit for tax withheld or paid to another
municipal corporation on such winnings paid to the municipal corporation where
winnings occur is limited to the credit as specified in §
182.081 of this chapter.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (N)(1)(a) of this section:
            (i)   Any net operating loss of the resident incurred in the
taxable year and the resident’s distributive share of any net operating loss
generated in the same taxable year and attributable to the resident’s ownership
interest in a pass-through entity shall be allowed as a deduction, for that
taxable year and the following five taxable years, against any other net profit
of the resident or the resident’s distributive share of any net profit
attributable to the resident’s ownership interest in a pass-through entity
until fully utilized, subject to division (N)(1)(d) of this  section. Loss of
any type cannot be used to offset qualifying wages (W-2 income);
            (ii)   The resident’s distributive share of the net profit of each
pass- through entity owned directly or indirectly by the resident shall be
calculated without regard to any net operating loss that is carried forward by
that entity from a prior taxable year and applied to reduce the entity’s net
profit for the current taxable year.
         (c)   Division (N)(1)(b) of this section does not apply with respect
to any net profit or net operating loss attributable to an ownership interest
in an S corporation unless shareholders’ distributive shares of net profits
from S corporations are subject to tax in the municipal corporation as provided
in division (N)(4) of this section.
         (d)   Any amount of a net operating loss used to reduce a taxpayer’s
net profit for a taxable year shall reduce the amount of net operating loss
that may be carried forward to any subsequent year for use by that taxpayer. In
no event shall the cumulative deductions for all taxable years with respect to
a taxpayer’s net operating loss exceed the original amount of that net
operating loss available to that taxpayer.
      (2)   In the case of nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or
activities conducted in the Municipality, including any net profit of the
nonresident.
      (3)   For taxpayers that are not individuals, net profit of the taxpayer.
      (4)   For residents, an S corporation shareholder’s distributive share of
net profits of the S corporation to the extent the distributive share would be
allocated or apportioned to this state under R.C. §
5733.05(B)(1) and (2) if the S corporation were a corporation subject to taxes
imposed under R.C. Chapter 5733, and the tax shall apply to the distributive
share of a shareholder of an S corporation in the hands of the shareholder of
the S corporation.
      (5)   For both resident and non-resident individuals, OTHER COMPENSATION
shall mean:
         (a)   Tips, bonuses, gifts or prizes of any type connected with
employment or in lieu of pay, and including compensation received by domestic
servants, casual employees and other types of employees. These payments may be
reported on a form 1099 MISC.
         (b)   If the income appears as part of Medicare wages on a W-2 form
and is not shown to be an exception in accordance with Section
182.03(K) of this section, it shall be considered other compensation and is
therefore taxable to the individual. This includes, but is not limited to:
            (i)   Payments made by an employer to an employee during periods of
absence from work are taxable when paid and at the tax rate in effect at the
time of payment, regardless of the fact that such payments may be labeled as
sick leave or sick pay, sick pay paid by the employer to the employee,
severance pay, supplemental unemployment benefits described in § 3402(o)(2) of
the Internal Revenue Code, vacation pay, terminal pay, supplemental
unemployment pay, settlements, any pay as part of an employee buyout, wage and
salary continuation plans, payments made for the release of liability related
to termination of employment.
            (ii)   Tips, bonuses, fees, gifts in lieu of pay, gratuities.
            (iii)   Strike pay; grievance pay.
            (iv)   Employer paid premiums for group term life insurance to the
extent taxable for federal income tax purposes.
            (v)   Car allowance, personal use of employer-provided vehicle.
            (vi)   Incentive payments, no matter how described, including, but
not limited to, payments to induce early retirement.
            (vii)   Contributions by an employee or on behalf of an employee,
from gross wages, into an employee or third party trust or pension plan as
permitted by any provision of the Internal Revenue Code that may be excludable
from gross wages for federal income tax purposes such as 401(k), 403(b) and 457
plans.
            (viii)   Nonqualified deferred compensation plans or programs
described in § 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
            (ix)   Insurance agent termination payments. These payments are
normally reported on a form 1099 MISC.
         (c)   Trust payments not made pursuant to employee’s retirement.
         (d)   Where compensation is paid or received in property, its fair
market value at the time of receipt shall be subject to the tax and to
withholding.
            (i)   Board, lodging or similar items received by an employee in
lieu of additional cash compensation shall be included in earnings at their
fair market value.
            (ii)   Restricted stock awards that vest over a period of time are
taxable at their fair market value at the time they become vested and included
in Medicare, as shown on the employee’s IRS form W-2.
         (e)   Fellowships, scholarships, stipends and grants, to the extent
that they are taxable for federal income tax purposes.
         (f)   For an individual, the ordinary gain from the sale of rental
real estate property. Any related ordinary loss from the sale of rental real
estate property shall be allowed.
   (O)   INTANGIBLE INCOME means income of any of the following types: income
yield, interest, capital gains, dividends, or other income arising from the
ownership, sale, exchange, or other disposition of intangible property
including, but not limited to, investments, deposits, money, or credits as
those terms are defined in R.C. Chapter 5701, and patents, copyrights,
trademarks, trade names, investments in real estate investment trusts,
investments in regulated investment companies, and appreciation on deferred
compensation. INTANGIBLE INCOME does not include prizes, awards, or other
income associated with any lottery winnings, gambling winnings, or other
similar games of chance.
   (P)   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE means the “Internal Revenue Code of 1986,” 100
Stat. 2085, 26 U.S.C. § 1, as amended.
   (Q)   LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY means a limited liability company formed
under R.C. Chapter 1705 or under the laws of another state.
   (R)   LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW and BOARD OF TAX REVIEW means the entity
created under §
182.18 of this chapter.
   (S)   MUNICIPAL CORPORATION means, in general terms, a status conferred upon
a local government unit, by state law giving the unit certain autonomous
operating authority such as the power of taxation, power of eminent domain,
police power and regulatory power, and includes a joint economic development
district or joint economic development zone that levies an income tax under
R.C. § 715.691, 715.70, 715.71, or 715.74.
   (T)   (1)   MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME means the following:
         (a)   For a person other than an individual, income reduced by exempt
income to the extent otherwise included in income and then, as applicable,
apportioned or sitused to the Municipality under §
182.062 of this chapter, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss
carryforward available to the person for the Municipality.
         (b)   For an individual who is a resident of a Municipality other than
a qualified municipal corporation, income reduced by exempt income to the
extent otherwise included in
            income, then reduced as provided in division (T)(2) of this
section, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the individual for the Municipality.
         (c)   For an individual who is a nonresident of the Municipality,
income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and
then, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the Municipality under §
182.062 of this chapter, then reduced as provided in division (T)(2) of this
section, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the individual for the Municipality.
      (2)   In computing the MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME of a taxpayer who is an
individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in division (T)(1)(b) or (c)
of this section, the amount of the individual’s employee business expenses
reported on the individual’s form 2106 that the individual deducted for federal
income tax purposes for the taxable year, subject to the limitation imposed by
§ 67 of the Internal Revenue Code. For the municipal corporation in which the
taxpayer is a resident, the taxpayer may deduct all such expenses allowed for
federal income tax purposes. For a municipal corporation in which the taxpayer
is not a resident, the taxpayer may deduct such expenses only to the extent the
expenses are related to the taxpayer’s performance of personal services in that
nonresident municipal corporation.
   (U)   MUNICIPALITY as used in this chapter shall mean the City of Mason.
   (V)   NET OPERATING LOSS means a loss incurred by a person in the operation
of a trade or business. NET OPERATING LOSS does not include unutilized losses
resulting from basis limitations, at-risk limitations, or passive activity loss
limitations.
   (W)   (1)   NET PROFIT for a person other than an individual means adjusted
federal taxable income.
      (2)   NET PROFIT for a person who is an individual means the individual’s
net profit required to be reported on schedule C, schedule E, or schedule F
reduced by any net operating loss carried forward. For the purpose of this
division, the net operating loss carried forward shall be calculated and
deducted in the same manner as provided in division (A)(8) of this section.
      (3)   For the purposes of this chapter, and notwithstanding division (W)
(1) of this section, net profit of a disregarded entity shall not be taxable as
against that disregarded entity, but shall instead be included in the net
profit of the owner of the disregarded entity.
      (4)   (a)   For purposes of this chapter, a PUBLICLY TRADED PARTNERSHIP
means any partnership, an interest in which is regularly traded on an
established securities market. A PUBLICLY TRADED PARTNERSHIP may have any
number of partners.
         (b)   For the purposes of this chapter, and notwithstanding any other
provision of this chapter, the net profit of a publicly traded partnership that
makes the election described in division (W)(4)(c) of this section shall be
taxed as if the partnership were a C corporation, and shall not be treated as
the net profit or income of any owner of the partnership.
         (c)   A publicly traded partnership that is treated as a partnership
for federal income tax purposes and that is subject to tax on its net profits
in one or more municipal corporations in this state may elect to be treated as
a C corporation for municipal income tax purposes. The publicly traded
partnership shall make the election in every municipal corporation in which the
partnership is subject to taxation on its net profits. The election shall be
made on the annual tax return filed in each such municipal corporation. Once
the election is made, the election is binding for a five-year period beginning
with the first taxable year of the initial election. The election continues to
be binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing municipal income tax returns as a C corporation for
municipal purposes under division (W)(4)(d) of this section.
         (d)   An election to discontinue filing as a C corporation must be
made in the first year following the last year of a five-year election period
in effect under division (W)(4)(c) of this section. The election to discontinue
filing as a C corporation is binding for a five-year period beginning with the
first taxable year of the election and continues to be binding for each
subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing
municipal income tax returns as a partnership for municipal purposes. An
election to discontinue filing as a partnership must be made in the first year
following the last year of a five-year election period.
         (e)   The publicly traded partnership shall not be required to file
the election with any municipal corporation in which the partnership is not
subject to taxation on its net profits, but division (W)(4)(b) of this section
applies to all municipal corporations in which an individual owner of the
partnership resides.
         (f)   The individual owners of the partnership not filing as a C
corporation shall be required to file with their municipal corporation of
residence, and report partnership distribution of net profit.
   (X)   NONRESIDENT means an individual that is not a resident of the
Municipality.
   (Y)   OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY means the online computer network system,
created under R.C. §
125.30, that allows persons to electronically file business reply forms with
state agencies and includes any successor electronic filing and payment system.
   (Z)   OTHER PAYER means any person, other than an individual’s employer or
the employer’s agent that pays an individual any amount included in the federal
gross income of the individual. OTHER PAYER includes casino operators and video
lottery terminal sales agents.
   (AA)   PASS-THROUGH ENTITY means a partnership not treated as an association
taxable as a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, a limited liability
company not treated as an association taxable as a C corporation for federal
income tax purposes, an S corporation, or any other class of entity from which
the income or profits of the entity are given pass-through treatment for
federal income tax purposes. PASS-THROUGH ENTITY does not include a trust,
estate, grantor of a grantor trust, or disregarded entity.
   (BB)   PENSION means any amount paid to an employee or former employee that
is reported to the recipient on an IRS form 1099-R, or successor form. Pension
does not include deferred compensation, or amounts attributable to nonqualified
deferred compensation plans, reported as FICA/Medicare wages on an IRS form W-
2, Wage and Tax Statement, or successor form.
   (BB2)   PENSION for tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2020 means a
retirement benefit plan, regardless of whether the plan satisfies the
qualifications described under section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code,
including amounts that are taxable under the "Federal Insurance Contributions
Act," Chapter 21 of the Internal Revenue Code, excluding employee contributions
and elective deferrals, and regardless of whether such amounts are paid in the
same taxable year in which the amounts are included in the employee's wages, as
defined by section 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code.
   (CC)   PERSON includes individuals, firms, companies, joint stock companies,
business trusts, estates, trusts, partnerships, limited liability partnerships,
limited liability companies, associations, C corporations, S corporations,
governmental entities, and any other entity.
   (DD)   POSTAL SERVICE means the United States postal service, or private
delivery service delivering documents and packages within an agreed upon
delivery schedule, or any other carrier service delivering the item.
   (EE)   POSTMARK DATE, DATE OF POSTMARK, and similar terms include the date
recorded and marked by a delivery service and recorded electronically to a
database kept in the regular course if its business and marked on the cover in
which the payment or document is enclosed, the date on which the payment or
document was given to the delivery service for delivery.
   (FF)   (1)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD means any net
operating loss incurred in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 2017, to
the extent such loss was permitted, by a resolution or ordinance of the
Municipality that was adopted by the Municipality before January 1, 2016, to be
carried forward and utilized to offset income or net profit generated in such
Municipality in future taxable years.
      (2)   For the purpose of calculating municipal taxable income, any pre-
2017 net operating loss carryforward may be carried forward to any taxable
year, including taxable years beginning in 2017 or thereafter, for the number
of taxable years provided in the resolution or ordinance or until fully
utilized, whichever is earlier.
   (GG)   QUALIFYING WAGES means wages, as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code, without regard to any wage limitations, adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Deduct the following amounts:
         (a)   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes
compensation attributable to a plan or program described in § 125 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
         (b)   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes payment
on account of a disability related to sickness or an accident paid by a party
unrelated to the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer.
         (c)   Any amount included in wages that is exempt income.
      (2)   Add the following amounts:
         (a)   Any amount not included in wages solely because the employee was
employed by the employer before April 1, 1986.
         (b)   Any amount not included in wages because the amount arises from
the sale, exchange, or other disposition of a stock option, the exercise of a
stock option, or the sale, exchange, or other disposition of stock purchased
under a stock option. Division (GG)(2)(b) of this section applies only to those
amounts constituting ordinary income.
         (c)   Any amount not included in wages if the amount is an amount
described in § 401(k), 403(b), or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code. Division
(GG)(2)(c) of this section applies only to employee contributions and employee
deferrals.
         (d)   Any amount that is supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits described in § 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code and not
included in wages.
         (e)   Any amount received that is treated as self-employment income
for federal tax purposes in accordance with § 1402(a)(8) of the Internal
Revenue Code.
         (f)   Any amount not included in wages if all of the following apply:
            (i)   For the taxable year the amount is employee compensation that
is earned outside of the United States and that either is included in the
taxpayer’s gross income for federal income tax purposes or would have been
included in the taxpayer’s gross income for such purposes if the taxpayer did
not elect to exclude the income under § 911 of the Internal Revenue Code;
            (ii)   For no preceding taxable year did the amount constitute
wages as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code;
            (iii)   For no succeeding taxable year will the amount constitute
wages; and
            (iv)   For any taxable year the amount has not otherwise been added
to wages pursuant to either division (GG)(2) of this section or R.C. § 718.03,
as that section existed before the effective date of H.B. 5 of the 130th
General Assembly, March 23, 2015.
   (HH)   RELATED ENTITY means any of the following:
      (1)   An individual stockholder, or a member of the stockholder’s family
enumerated in § 318 of the Internal Revenue Code, if the stockholder and the
members of the stockholder’s family own directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer’s
outstanding stock;
      (2)   A stockholder, or a stockholder’s partnership, estate, trust, or
corporation, if the stockholder and the stockholder’s partnerships, estates,
trusts, or corporations own directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer’s
outstanding stock;
      (3)   A corporation, or a party related to the corporation in a manner
that would require an attribution of stock from the corporation to the party or
from the party to the corporation under division (HH)(4) of this section,
provided the taxpayer owns directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, at least 50% of the value of the corporation’s outstanding
stock;
      (4)   The attribution rules described in § 318 of the Internal Revenue
Code apply for the purpose of determining whether the ownership requirements in
divisions (HH)(1) to (3) of this section have been met.
   (II)   RELATED MEMBER means a person that, with respect to the taxpayer
during all or any portion of the taxable year, is either a related entity, a
component member as defined in § 1563(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, or a
person to or from whom there is attribution of stock ownership in accordance
with § 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code except, for purposes of determining
whether a person is a related member under this division, “twenty per cent”
shall be substituted for “5 percent” wherever “5 percent” appears in § 1563(e)
of the Internal Revenue Code.
   (JJ)   RESIDENT means an individual who is domiciled in the Municipality as
determined under §
182.042 of this chapter.
   (KK)   S CORPORATION means a person that has made an election under
subchapter S of Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its
taxable year.
   (LL)   SCHEDULE C means Internal Revenue Service schedule C (form 1040)
filed by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   (MM)   SCHEDULE E means Internal Revenue Service schedule E (form 1040)
filed by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   (NN)   SCHEDULE F means Internal Revenue Service schedule F (form 1040)
filed by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   (OO)   SINGLE MEMBER LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY means a limited liability
company that has one direct member.
   (PP)   SMALL EMPLOYER means any employer that had total revenue of less than
$500,000 during the preceding taxable year. For purposes of this division,
TOTAL REVENUE means receipts of any type or kind, including, but not limited
to, sales receipts; payments; rents; profits; gains, dividends, and other
investment income; commissions; premiums; money; property; grants;
contributions; donations; gifts; program service revenue; patient service
revenue; premiums; fees, including premium fees and service fees; tuition
payments; unrelated business revenue; reimbursements; any type of payment from
a governmental unit, including grants and other allocations; and any other
similar receipts reported for federal income tax purposes or under generally
accepted accounting principles. SMALL EMPLOYER does not include the federal
government; any state government, including any state agency or
instrumentality; any political subdivision; or any entity treated as a
government for financial accounting and reporting purposes.
   (QQ)   TAX ADMINISTRATOR means the individual charged with direct
responsibility for administration of an income tax levied by a municipal
corporation in accordance with this chapter, and also includes the following:
      (1)   A municipal corporation acting as the agent of another municipal
corporation;
      (2)   A person retained by a municipal corporation to administer a tax
levied by the municipal corporation, but only if the municipal corporation does
not compensate the person in whole or in part on a contingency basis;
      (3)    The Central Collection Agency (CCA) or the Regional Income Tax
Agency (RITA) or their successors in interest, or another entity organized to
perform functions similar to those performed by the Central Collection Agency
and the Regional Income Tax Agency.
      (4)   Tax Administrator does not include the Tax Commissioner.
   (RR)   TAX RETURN PREPARER means any individual described in § 7701(a)(36)
of the Internal Revenue Code and 26 C.F.R. § 301.7701-15.
   (SS)   TAXABLE YEAR means the corresponding tax reporting period as
prescribed for the taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
   (TT)   TAXPAYER means a person subject to a tax levied on income by a
municipal corporation in accordance with this chapter. TAXPAYER does not
include a grantor trust, a disregarded entity or a qualifying subchapter S
subsidiary for federal income tax purposes, but TAXPAYER includes any other
person who owns the grantor trust, disregarded entity, or qualifying subchapter
S subsidiary.
   (UU)   TAXPAYERS’ RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES means the rights provided to
taxpayers in R.C. §§ 718.11, 718.12, 718.19, 718.23, 718.36, 718.37, 718.38,
5717.011, and 5717.03 and any corresponding ordinances of the Municipality, and
the responsibilities of taxpayers to file, report, withhold, remit, and pay
municipal income tax and otherwise comply with R.C. Chapter 718 and
resolutions, ordinances, and rules adopted by a municipal corporation for the
imposition and administration of a municipal income tax.
   (VV)   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
   (WW)   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL SALES AGENT means a lottery sales agent
licensed under R.C. Chapter 3770 to conduct video lottery terminals on behalf
of the state pursuant to R.C. § 3770.21.
   (XX)   TAX COMMISSIONER means the tax commissioner appointed under R.C. §
121.03.
   (YY)   RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLAN for tax years beginning on or after January
1, 2020 means an arrangement whereby an entity provides benefits to individuals
either on or after their termination of service because of retirement or
disability. "Retirement benefit plan" does not include wage continuation
payments, severance payments, or payments made for accrued personal or vacation
time.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 2018-30, passed 2-26-2018; Ord. 2019-
149, passed 12-9- 2019)
§ 182.04 INCOME SUBJECT TO TAX FOR INDIVIDUALS.
§ 182.041 DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME for a resident of the Municipality is
calculated as follows:
      (1)   “Income” reduced by “exempt income” to the extent such exempt
income is otherwise included in income, reduced by allowable employee business
expense deduction as found in §
182.03(T)(2) of this chapter, further reduced by any “pre-2017 net operating
loss carryforward” equals MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME.
         (a)   INCOME is defined in §
182.03(N) of this chapter.
            (i)   QUALIFYING WAGES is defined in §
182.03(GG).
            (ii)   NET PROFIT is included in INCOME, and is defined in §
182.03(W) of this chapter. This section also provides that the net operating
loss carryforward shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as
provided in §
182.03(A)(8). Treatment of net profits received by an individual taxpayer from
rental real estate is provided in §
182.062(E).
            (iii)   Section 182.03(N) provides the following: offsetting and
net operating loss carryforward treatment in (N)(1)(b)(i); resident’s
distributive share of net profit from pass through entity treatment in (N)(1)
(b)(ii); treatment of S corporation distributive share of net profit in the
hands of the shareholder in (N)(1)(c); restriction of amount of loss permitted
to be carried forward for use by taxpayer in a subsequent taxable year in (N)
(1)(d).
            (iv)   PASS- THROUGH ENTITY is defined in §
182.03(AA).
         (b)   EXEMPT INCOME is defined in §
182.03(K) of this chapter.
         (c)   ALLOWABLE EMPLOYEE BUSINESS EXPENSE DEDUCTION is described in §
182.03(T)(2) of this chapter, and is subject to the limitations provided in
that section.
         (d)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD is defined in §
182.03(FF) of this chapter.
   (B)   MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME for a nonresident of the Municipality is
calculated as follows:
      (1)   “Income” reduced by “exempt income” to the extent such exempt
income is otherwise included in income, as applicable, apportioned or sitused
to the Municipality as provided in §
182.062 of this chapter, reduced by allowable employee business expense
deduction as found in §
182.03(T)(2) of this chapter, further reduced by any “pre-2017 net operating
loss carryforward” equals MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME.
         (a)   INCOME is defined in §
182.03(N) of this chapter.
            (i)   QUALIFYING WAGES is defined in §
182.03(GG).
            (ii)   NET PROFIT is included in INCOME, and is defined in §
182.03(W) of this chapter. This section also provides that the net operating
loss carryforward shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as
provided in §
182.03(A)(8). NET PROFIT for a nonresident individual includes any net profit
of the nonresident, but excludes the distributive share of net profit or loss
of only pass through entity owned directly or indirectly by the nonresident.
            (iii)   PASS- THROUGH ENTITY is defined in §
182.03(AA).
         (b)   EXEMPT INCOME is defined in §
182.03(K) of this chapter.
         (c)   APPORTIONED OR SITUSED TO THE MUNICIPALITY as provided in §
182.062 of this chapter includes the apportionment of net profit income
attributable to work done or services performed in the Municipality. Treatment
of net profits received by an individual taxpayer from rental real estate is
provided in §
182.062(E).
         (d)   ALLOWABLE EMPLOYEE BUSINESS EXPENSE DEDUCTION as described in §
182.03(T)(2) of this chapter, is subject to the limitations provided in that
section. For a nonresident of the Municipality, the deduction is limited to the
extent the expenses are related to the performance of personal services by the
nonresident in the Municipality.
         (e)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD is defined in §
182.03(FF) of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.042 DOMICILE.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   DOMICILE means the true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer
to which whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
      (2)   An individual is presumed to be domiciled in the Municipality for
all or part of a taxable year if the individual was domiciled in the
Municipality on the last day of the immediately preceding taxable year or if
the Tax Administrator reasonably concludes that the individual is domiciled in
the Municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
      (3)   An individual may rebut the presumption of domicile described in
division (A)(1) of this section if the individual establishes by a
preponderance of the evidence that the individual was not domiciled in the
Municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
   (B)   For the purpose of determining whether an individual is domiciled in
the Municipality for all or part of a taxable year, factors that may be
considered include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The individual’s domicile in other taxable years;
      (2)   The location at which the individual is registered to vote;
      (3)   The address on the individual’s driver’s license;
      (4)   The location of real estate for which the individual claimed a
property tax exemption or reduction allowed on the basis of the individual’s
residence or domicile;
      (5)   The location and value of abodes owned or leased by the individual;
      (6)   Declarations, written or oral, made by the individual regarding the
individual’s residency;
      (7)   The primary location at which the individual is employed;
      (8)   The location of educational institutions attended by the
individual’s dependents as defined in § 152 of the Internal Revenue Code, to
the extent that tuition paid to such educational institution is based on the
residency of the individual or the individual’s spouse in the municipal
corporation or state where the educational institution is located;
      (9)   The number of contact periods the individual has with the
Municipality. For the purposes of this division, an individual has one CONTACT
PERIOD with the Municipality if the individual is away overnight from the
individual’s abode located outside of the Municipality and while away overnight
from that abode spends at least some portion, however minimal, of each of two
consecutive days in the Municipality. For purposes of this section, the state’s
contact period test or bright-line test and resulting determination have no
bearing on municipal residency or domicile.
   (C)   All applicable factors are provided in R.C. § 718.012.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.043 EXEMPTION FOR MEMBER OR EMPLOYEE OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND CERTAIN
JUDGES.
   (A)   Only the municipal corporation of residence shall be permitted to levy
a tax on the income of any member or employee of the Ohio General Assembly,
including the Lieutenant Governor, whose income is received as a result of
services rendered as such member or employee and is paid from appropriated
funds of this state.
   (B)   Only the municipal corporation of residence and the City of Columbus
shall levy a tax on the income of the Chief Justice or a Justice of the Supreme
Court received as a result of services rendered as the Chief Justice or
Justice. Only the municipal corporation of residence shall levy a tax on the
income of a judge sitting by assignment of the Chief Justice or on the income
of a district court of appeals judge sitting in multiple locations within the
district, received as a result of services rendered as a judge.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.05 COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
§ 182.051 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; WITHHOLDING FROM QUALIFYING WAGES.
   (A)   (1)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer located or
doing business in the Municipality shall withhold from each employee an amount
equal to the qualifying wages of the employee earned or deemed to
         be received from said employer by the employee in the Municipality
multiplied by the applicable rate of the Municipality’s income tax, except for
qualifying wages for which withholding is not required under §
182.052 of this chapter or division (D) or (F) of this section. An employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer shall deduct and withhold the tax from
qualifying wages on the date that the employer, agent, or other payer directly,
indirectly, or constructively pays the qualifying wages to, or credits the
qualifying wages to the benefit of, the employee.
      (2)   In addition to withholding the amounts required under division (A)
(1) of this section, an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may also
deduct and withhold, on the request of an employee, taxes for the municipal
corporation in which the employee is a resident.
   (B)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall remit to the
Tax Administrator of the Municipality the greater of the income taxes deducted
and withheld or the income taxes required to be deducted and withheld by the
employer, agent, or other payer, along with any report required by the Tax
Administrator to accompany such payment, according to the following schedule:
      (1)    Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer not required to
make payments under division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section of taxes required
to be deducted and withheld shall make quarterly payments to the Tax
Administrator not later than the last day of the month following the end of
each calendar quarter.
      (2)   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
monthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld or
required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent, or other payer on
behalf of the municipal corporation in the preceding calendar year exceeded
$2,399, or if the total amount of taxes deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld on behalf of the Municipality in any month of the
preceding calendar quarter exceeded $200. Payment under division (B)(2) of this
section shall be made so that the payment is received by the Tax Administrator
not later than 15 days after the last day of each month.
      (3)   An employer, agent of an employer or other payer is required to
make payment by electronic funds transfer to the Tax Administrator of all taxes
deducted and withheld on behalf of the employee for remittance to the
Municipality if the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer is required
to make payments electronically for the purpose of paying federal taxes
withheld on payments to employees under § 6302 of the Internal Revenue Code, 26
C.F.R. § 31.6302-1, or any other federal statute or regulation. The payment of
tax by electronic funds transfer under this division does not affect an
employer’s, agent’s, or other payer’s obligation to file any return as required
under this section. Once the threshold for remitting payment electronically for
federal purposes has been met, any accrued municipal income tax withheld from
employee qualifying wages earned within the Municipality shall be remitted to
the Municipality at the same time that the federal tax withholding payment is
due.
   (C)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall make and file
a return showing the amount of tax withheld by the employer, agent, or other
payer from the qualifying wages of each employee and remitted to the Tax
Administrator. A return filed by an employer, agent, or other payer under this
division shall be accepted by the Municipality as the return required of an
employee whose sole income subject to the tax under this chapter is the
qualifying wages reported by the employee’s employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer, unless the Municipality requires all resident individual taxpayers
to file a tax return under §
182.091 of this chapter.
   (D)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer is not required to
withhold municipal income tax with respect to an individual’s disqualifying
disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the time of the disqualifying
disposition, the individual is not an employee of either the corporation with
respect to whose stock the option has been issued or of such corporation’s
successor entity.
   (E)   (1)   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to withhold the
tax as required under this chapter or by the employer’s, agent’s, or other
payer’s exemption from the requirement to withhold the tax.
      (2)   The failure of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to
remit to the Municipality the tax withheld relieves the employee from liability
for that tax unless the employee colluded with the employer, agent, or other
payer in connection with the failure to remit the tax withheld.
   (F)   Compensation deferred before June 26, 2003, is not subject to any
municipal corporation income tax or municipal income tax withholding
requirement to the extent the deferred compensation does not constitute
qualifying wages at the time the deferred compensation is paid or distributed.
   (G)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer required to
withhold taxes is liable for the payment of that amount required to be
withheld, whether or not such taxes have been withheld, and such amount shall
be deemed to be held in trust for the Municipality until such time as the
withheld amount is remitted to the Tax Administrator.
   (H)   On or before the last day of February of each year, an employer shall
file a withholding reconciliation return with the Tax Administrator listing the
names, addresses, and Social Security numbers of all employees from whose
qualifying wages tax was withheld or should have been withheld for the
Municipality during the preceding calendar year, the amount of tax withheld, if
any, from each such employee’s qualifying wage, the total amount of qualifying
wages paid to such employee during the preceding calendar year, the name of
every other municipal corporation for which tax was withheld or should have
been withheld from such employee during the preceding calendar year, any other
information required for federal income tax reporting purposes on Internal
Revenue Service form W-2 or its equivalent form with respect to such employee,
and other information as may be required by the Tax Administrator.
   (I)   The officer or the employee of the employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer with control or direct supervision of or charged with the
responsibility for withholding the tax or filing the reports and making
payments as required by this section, shall be personally liable for a failure
to file a report or pay the tax due as required by this section. The
dissolution of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer does not
discharge the officer’s or employee’s liability for a failure of the employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer to file returns or pay any tax due.
   (J)   A Tax Administrator shall consider any tax withheld by an employer at
the request of an employee when such tax is not otherwise required to be
withheld by this chapter to be tax required to be withheld and remitted for the
purposes of this section.
   (K)   An employer is required to deduct and withhold municipal income tax on
tips and gratuities received by the employer’s employees and constituting
qualifying wages only to the extent that the tips and gratuities are under the
employer’s control. For the purposes of this division, a tip or gratuity is
under the employer’s control if the tip or gratuity is paid by the customer to
the employer for subsequent remittance to the employee, or if the customer pays
the tip or gratuity by credit card, debit card, or other electronic means.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 2018-4, passed 1-8-2018)
§ 182.052 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; OCCASIONAL ENTRANT.
   (A)   The following terms as used in this section:
      (1)   EMPLOYER includes a person that is a related member to or of an
employer.
      (2)   PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE means an athlete who performs services in a
professional athletic event for wages or other remuneration.
      (3)   PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER means a person who performs services in
the professional performing arts for wages or other remuneration on a per-event
basis.
      (4)   PUBLIC FIGURE means a person of prominence who performs services at
discrete events, such as speeches, public appearances, or similar events, for
wages or other remuneration on a per-event basis.
      (5)   FIXED LOCATION means a permanent place of doing business in this
state, such as an office, warehouse, storefront, or similar location owned or
controlled by an employer.
      (6)   WORKSITE LOCATION means a construction site or other temporary
worksite in this state at which the employer provides services for more than 20
days during the calendar year. WORKSITE LOCATION does not include the home of
an employee.
      (7)   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the fixed location to which an
employee is required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary
basis. If the employee is not required to report for employment duties on a
regular and ordinary basis to a fixed location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means
the worksite location in this state to which the employee is required to report
for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not
required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a
fixed location or worksite location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the location
in this state at which the employee spends the greatest number of days in a
calendar year performing services for or on behalf of the employee’s employer.
   If there is not a single municipal corporation in which the employee spent
the “greatest number of days in a calendar year” performing services for or on
behalf of the employer, but instead there are two or more municipal
corporations in which the employee spent an identical number of days that is
greater than the number of days the employee spent in any other municipal
corporation, the employer shall allocate any of the employee’s qualifying wages
subject to division (B)(1)(a) of this section among those two or more municipal
corporations. The allocation shall be made using any fair and reasonable
method, including, but not limited to, an equal allocation among such municipal
corporations or an allocation based upon the time spent or sales made by the
employee in each such municipal corporation. A municipal corporation to which
qualifying wages are allocated under this division shall be the employee’s
PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK with respect to those qualifying wages for the purposes
of this section.
   For the purposes of this division, the location at which an employee spends
a particular day shall be deemed in accordance with division (B)(2) of this
section, except that “location” shall be substituted for “municipal
corporation” wherever “municipal corporation” appears in that division.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C), (E), (F), and (G) of this section, an
employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on qualifying wages
paid to an employee for the performance of personal services in a municipal
corporation that imposes such a tax if the employee performed such services in
the municipal corporation on 20 or fewer days in a calendar year, unless one of
the following conditions applies:
         (a)   The employee’s principal place of work is located in the
Municipality.
         (b)   The employee performed services at one or more presumed worksite
locations in the Municipality. For the purposes of this division, PRESUMED
WORKSITE LOCATION means a construction site or other temporary worksite in this
state at which the employer provides services that can reasonably be expected
by the employer to last more than 20 days in a calendar year. Services can
“reasonably be expected by the employer to last more than 20 days” if either of
the following applies at the time the services commence:
            (i)   The nature of the services is such that it will require more
than 20 days of actual services to complete the services;
            (ii)   The agreement between the employer and its customer to
perform services at a location requires the employer to perform actual services
at the location for more than 20 days.
         (c)   The employee is a resident of the Municipality and has requested
that the employer withhold tax from the employee’s qualifying wages as provided
in §
182.051 of this chapter.
         (d)   The employee is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the qualifying wages are paid for the
performance of services in the employee’s capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure within the Municipality.
      (2)   For the purposes of division (B)(1) of this section, an employee
shall be considered to have spent a day performing services in a municipal
corporation only if the employee spent more time performing services for or on
behalf of the employer in that municipal corporation than in any other
municipal corporation on that day. For the purposes of determining the amount
of time an employee spent in a particular location, the time spent performing
one or more of the following activities shall be considered to have been spent
at the employee’s principal place of work:
         (a)   Traveling to the location at which the employee will first
perform services for the employer for the day;
         (b)   Traveling from a location at which the employee was performing
services for the employer to any other location;
         (c)   Traveling from any location to another location in order to pick
up or load, for the purpose of transportation or delivery, property that has
been purchased, sold, assembled, fabricated, repaired, refurbished, processed,
remanufactured, or improved by the employee’s employer;
         (d)   Transporting or delivering property described in division (B)(2)
(c) of this section, provided that, upon delivery of the property, the employee
does not temporarily or permanently affix the property to real estate owned,
used, or controlled by a person other than the employee’s employer;
         (e)   Traveling from the location at which the employee makes the
employee’s final delivery or pick-up for the day to either the employee’s
principal place of work or a location at which the employee will not perform
services for the employer.
   (C)   If the principal place of work of an employee is located in a
municipal corporation that imposes an income tax in accordance with this
chapter, the exception from withholding requirements described in division (B)
(1) of this section shall apply only if, with respect to the employee’s
qualifying wages described in that division, the employer withholds and remits
tax on such qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the
employee’s principal place of work is located.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) of this section, if,
during a calendar year, the number of days an employee spends performing
personal services in a municipal corporation exceeds the 20-day threshold
described in division (B)(1) of this section, the employer shall withhold and
remit tax to that municipal corporation for any subsequent days in that
calendar year on which the employer pays qualifying wages to the employee for
personal services performed in that municipal corporation.
      (2)   An employer required to begin withholding tax for a municipal
corporation under division (D)(1) of this section may elect to withhold tax for
that municipal corporation for the first 20 days on which the employer paid
qualifying wages to the employee for personal services performed in that
municipal corporation.
      (3)   If an employer makes the election described in division (D)(2) of
this section, the taxes withheld and paid by such an employer during those
first 20 days to the municipal corporation in which the employee’s principal
place of work is located are refundable to the employee.
   (E)   Without regard to the number of days in a calendar year on which an
employee performs personal services in any municipal corporation, an employer
shall withhold municipal income tax on all of the employee’s qualifying wages
for a taxable year and remit that tax only to the municipal corporation in
which the employer’s fixed location is located if the employer qualifies as a
small employer as defined in §
182.03 of this chapter. To determine whether an employer qualifies as a small
employer for a taxable year, a Tax Administrator may require the employer to
provide the Tax Administrator with the employer’s federal income tax return for
the preceding taxable year.
   (F)   Divisions (B)(1) and (D) of this section shall not apply to the extent
that a Tax Administrator and an employer enter into an agreement regarding the
manner in which the employer shall comply with the requirements of §
182.051 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.06 INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX.
§ 182.061 DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR TAXPAYERS WHO ARE NOT
INDIVIDUALS.
   MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME for a taxpayer who is not an individual for the
Municipality is calculated as follows:
   (A)   “Income” reduced by “exempt income” to the extent otherwise included
in income, multiplied by apportionment, further reduced by any “pre-2017 net
operating loss carryforward” equals MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME.
      (1)   INCOME for a taxpayer that is not an individual means the “net
profit” of the taxpayer.
         (a)   NET PROFIT for a person other than an individual is defined in §
182.03(W).
         (b)   ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME is defined in §
182.03(A) of this chapter.
      (2)   EXEMPT INCOME is defined in §
182.03(K) of this chapter.
      (3)   APPORTIONMENT means the apportionment as determined by §
182.062 of this chapter.
      (4)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD is defined in §
182.03(FF) of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.062 NET PROFIT; INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX; ALTERNATIVE
APPORTIONMENT.
   This section applies to any taxpayer engaged in a business or profession in
the Municipality unless the taxpayer is an individual who resides in the
Municipality or the taxpayer is an electric company, combined company, or
telephone company that is subject to and required to file reports under R.C.
Chapter 5745.
   (A)   Net profit from a business or profession conducted both within and
without the boundaries of the Municipality shall be considered as having a
taxable situs in the Municipality for purposes of municipal income taxation in
the same proportion as the average ratio of the following:
      (1)   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the Municipality during the taxable period to the average original cost of
all of the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in
the business or profession during the same period, wherever situated.
         As used in the preceding paragraph, TANGIBLE PERSONAL OR REAL PROPERTY
shall include property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the value of such
property shall be determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon by eight;
      (2)   Wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the Municipality to wages, salaries, and other compensation paid
during the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession,
wherever the individual’s services are performed, excluding compensation from
which taxes are not required to be withheld under §
182.052 of this chapter;
      (3)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales and
rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the
Municipality to total gross receipts of the business or profession during the
same period from sales, rentals, and services, wherever made or performed.
   (B)   (1)   If the apportionment factors described in division (A) of this
section do not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer’s business activity in
the Municipality, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Administrator of the
Municipality may require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any
portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method
involving one or more of the following:
         (a)   Separate accounting;
         (b)   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
         (c)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
Municipality;
         (d)   A modification of one or more of the factors.
      (2)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method shall
be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment, or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Administrator denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by §
182.19(A) of this chapter.
      (3)   A Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer to use an alternative
apportionment method as described in division (B)(1) of this section only by
issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the period prescribed by §
182.19(A) of this chapter.
      (4)   Nothing in division (B) of this section nullifies or otherwise
affects any alternative apportionment arrangement approved by a Tax
Administrator or otherwise agreed upon by both the Tax Administrator and
taxpayer before January 1, 2016.
   (C)   As used in division (A)(2) of this section, WAGES, SALARIES, AND OTHER
COMPENSATION includes only wages, salaries, or other compensation paid to an
employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
      (1)   A location that is owned, controlled, or used by, rented to, or
under the possession of one of the following:
         (a)   The employer;
         (b)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client, or patient;
         (c)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of a person described in
division (C)(1)(b) of this section, or a related member of such a vendor,
customer, client, or patient.
      (2)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial, or similar administrative, judicial, or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee’s presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer;
      (3)   Any other location, if the Tax Administrator determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (C)(1) or (2) of this section solely
in order to avoid or reduce the employer’s municipal income tax liability. If a
Tax Administrator makes such a determination, the employer may dispute the
determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Tax
Administrator’s determination was unreasonable.
   (D)   For the purposes of division (A)(3) of this section, receipts from
sales and rentals made and services performed shall be sitused to a municipal
corporation as follows:
      (1)    Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall
be sitused to the municipal corporation in which the sale originated. For the
purposes of this division, a sale of property originates in a municipal
corporation if, regardless of where title passes, the property meets any of the
following criteria in (a), (b) or (c) for taxable years beginning on or after
January 1, 2016 until December 31, 2017; and only if, regardless of where title
passes, the property meets either of the following criteria (a) or (b) for tax
years beginning on or after January 1, 2018:
         (a)   The property is shipped to or delivered within the municipal
corporation from a stock of goods located within the municipal corporation.
         (b)   The property is delivered within the municipal corporation from
a location outside the municipal corporation, provided the taxpayer is
regularly engaged through its own employees in the solicitation or promotion of
sales within such municipal corporation and the sales result from such
solicitation or promotion.
         (c)   The property is shipped from a place within the municipal
corporation to purchasers outside the municipal corporation, provided that the
taxpayer is not, through its own employees, regularly engaged in the
solicitation or promotion of sales at the place where delivery is made.
      (2)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation to the extent that such services are performed in the
municipal corporation.
      (3)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale of
real property located in the municipal corporation shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation.
      (4)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the municipal corporation shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation.
      (5)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the municipal corporation based upon the extent to
which the tangible personal property is used in the municipal corporation.
   (E)   The net profit received by an individual taxpayer from the rental of
real estate owned directly by the individual or by a disregarded entity owned
by the individual shall be subject to tax only by the municipal corporation in
which the property generating the net profit is located and the municipal
corporation in which the individual taxpayer that receives the net profit
resides.
   A municipal corporation shall allow such taxpayers to elect to use separate
accounting for the purpose of calculating net profit sitused under this
division to the municipal corporation in which the property is located.
      (1)   For purposes of the application of any net operating loss realized
from the rental of real estate, said loss is to be applied using separate
accounting as it relates to those properties within a given municipal taxing
jurisdiction.
      (2)   Common or shared expenses relating to rental real estate shall be
allocated equally among all rental properties.
   (F)   (1)   Except as provided in division (F)(2) of this section,
commissions received by a real estate agent or broker relating to the sale,
purchase, or lease of real estate shall be sitused to the municipal corporation
in which the real estate is located. Net profit reported by the real estate
agent or broker shall be allocated to a municipal corporation based upon the
ratio of the commissions the agent or broker received from the sale, purchase,
or lease of real estate located in the municipal corporation to the commissions
received from the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate everywhere in the
taxable year.
      (2)   An individual who is a resident of a municipal corporation that
imposes a municipal income tax shall report the individual’s net profit from
all real estate activity on the individual’s annual tax return for that
municipal corporation. The individual may claim a credit for taxes the
individual paid on such net profit to another municipal corporation to the
extent that such credit is allowed under §
182.081 of this chapter.
   (G)   If, in computing a taxpayer’s adjusted federal taxable income, the
taxpayer deducted any amount with respect to a stock option granted to an
employee, and if the employee is not required to include in the employee’s
income any such amount or a portion thereof because it is exempted from
taxation under §
182.03(K)(12) and (GG)(1)(c) of this chapter, by a municipal corporation to
which the taxpayer has apportioned a portion of its net profit, the taxpayer
shall add the amount that is exempt from taxation to the taxpayer’s net profit
that was apportioned to that municipal corporation. In no case shall a taxpayer
be required to add to its net profit that was apportioned to that municipal
corporation any amount other than the amount upon which the employee would be
required to pay tax were the amount related to the stock option not exempted
from taxation.
   This division applies solely for the purpose of making an adjustment to the
amount of a taxpayer’s net profit that was apportioned to a municipal
corporation under this section.
   (H)   When calculating the ratios described in division (A) of this section
for the purposes of that division or division (B) of this section, the owner of
a disregarded entity shall include in the owner’s ratios the property, payroll,
and gross receipts of such disregarded entity.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 2018-30, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 182.063 CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   AFFILIATED GROUP OF CORPORATIONS means an affiliated group as
defined in § 1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, except that, if such a group
includes at least one incumbent local exchange carrier that is primarily
engaged in the business of providing local exchange telephone service in this
state, the affiliated group shall not include any incumbent local exchange
carrier that would otherwise be included in the group.
      (2)   CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN means a consolidated return
filed for federal income tax purposes pursuant to § 1501 of the Internal
Revenue Code.
      (3)   CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME means the consolidated taxable
income of an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the purposes of
filing a consolidated federal income tax return, before consideration of net
operating losses or special deductions. CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME
does not include income or loss of an incumbent local exchange carrier that is
excluded from the affiliated group under division (A)(1) of this section.
      (4)   INCUMBENT LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4927.01.
      (5)   LOCAL EXCHANGE TELEPHONE SERVICE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5727.01.
   (B)   (1)   For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a
taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations may elect to
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year if at least
one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to the municipal
income tax in that taxable year and if the affiliated group of corporations
filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to that taxable
year.
         (a)   The election is binding for a five-year period beginning with
the first taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the reporting
method is required under federal law.
         (b)   The election continues to be binding for each subsequent five-
year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing consolidated
municipal income tax returns under division (B)(2) of this section; or
         (c)   A taxpayer receives permission from the Tax Administrator. The
Tax Administrator shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
      (2)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated municipal income tax
returns under this section must be made in the first year following the last
year of a five-year consolidated municipal income tax return election period in
effect under division (B)(1) of this section. The election to discontinue
filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is binding for a five-year
period beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
      (3)    An election made under division (B)(1) or (2) of this section is
binding on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a
municipal income tax.
      (4)   When a taxpayer makes the election allowed under R.C. § 718.80, a
valid election made by the taxpayer under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this
section is binding upon the tax commission for the remainder for the five-year
period.
      (5)   When an election made under R.C. § 718.80 is terminated, a valid
election made under R.C. § 718.86 is binding upon the tax administrator for the
remainder of the five-year period.
   (C)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for that taxable year if the
Tax Administrator determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that
intercompany transactions have not been conducted at arm’s length and that
there has been a distortive shifting of income or expenses with regard to
allocation of net profits to the municipal corporation. A taxpayer that is
required to file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year
shall file a consolidated municipal income tax return for all subsequent
taxable years unless the taxpayer requests and receives written permission from
the Tax Administrator to file a separate return or a taxpayer has experienced a
change in circumstances.
   (D)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated municipal income tax return in
the same manner as is required under the United States Department of Treasury
regulations that prescribe procedures for the preparation of the consolidated
federal income tax return required to be filed by the common parent of the
affiliated group of which the taxpayer is a member.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2), (3), and (4)
of this section, corporations that file a consolidated municipal income tax
return shall compute adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in §
182.03(A) of this chapter, by substituting “consolidated federal taxable
income” for “federal taxable income” wherever “federal taxable income” appears
in that division and by substituting “an affiliated group of corporation’s” for
“a C corporation’s” wherever “a C corporation’s” appears in that division.
      (2)   No corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return
shall make any adjustment otherwise required under §
182.03(A) of this chapter to the extent that the item of income or deduction
otherwise subject to the adjustment has been eliminated or consolidated in the
computation of consolidated federal taxable income.
      (3)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at least
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, the
corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall do one of
the following with respect to that pass- through entity’s net profit or loss
for that taxable year:
         (a)   Exclude the pass- through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
182.062 of this chapter, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of
the pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit
sitused to a municipal corporation. If the entity’s net profit or loss is so
excluded, the entity shall be subject to municipal income taxation as a
separate taxpayer in accordance with this chapter on the basis of the entity’s
net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated federal
taxable income of the affiliated group.
         (b)   Include the pass- through entity’s net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
182.062 of this chapter, include the property, payroll, and gross receipts of
the pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit
sitused to a municipal corporation. If the entity’s net profit or loss is so
included, the entity shall not be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on
the basis of the entity’s net profits that are included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group. The entity shall be subject to
taxation as a separate taxpayer on that portion of the entity’s net profit or
loss not included in the consolidated federal income of the affiliated group
and sitused to the municipal corporation.
      (4)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less than
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, all
of the following shall apply:
         (a)   The corporation filing the consolidated municipal income tax
return shall exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purposes of making the computations required in §
182.062 of this chapter, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of
the pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit
sitused to a municipal corporation;
         (b)   The pass-through entity shall be subject to municipal income
taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with this chapter on the basis of
the entity’s net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
   (F)   Corporations filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall
make the computations required under §
182.062 of this chapter by substituting “consolidated federal taxable income
attributable to” for “net profit from” wherever “net profit from” appears in
that section and by substituting “affiliated group of corporations” for
“taxpayer” wherever “taxpayer” appears in that section.
   (G)   Each corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is
jointly and severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines, charges,
or other amounts imposed by a municipal corporation in accordance with this
chapter on the corporation, an affiliated group of which the corporation is a
member for any portion of the taxable year, or any one or more members of such
an affiliated group.
   (H)   Corporations and their affiliates that made an election or entered
into an agreement with a municipal corporation before January 1, 2016, to file
a consolidated or combined tax return with such municipal corporation may
continue to file consolidated or combined tax returns in accordance with such
election or agreement for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2016.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 2018-30, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 182.064 TAX CREDIT FOR BUSINESSES THAT FOSTER NEW JOBS IN OHIO.
   The Municipality, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable
credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer to foster job creation in the
Municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it shall be measured
as a percentage of the new income tax revenue the Municipality derives from new
employees of the taxpayer and shall be for a term not exceeding 15 years.
Before the Municipality passes an ordinance granting a credit, the Municipality
and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement specifying all the conditions of
the credit.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.065 TAX CREDITS TO FOSTER JOB RETENTION.
   The Municipality, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable
credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer for the purpose of fostering job
retention in the Municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it
shall be measured as a percentage of the income tax revenue the Municipality
derives from the retained employees of the taxpayer, and shall be for a term
not exceeding 15 years. Before the Municipality passes an ordinance allowing
such a credit, the Municipality and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement
specifying all the conditions of the credit.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.07 DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED TAX.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   ESTIMATED TAXES means the amount that the taxpayer reasonably
estimates to be the taxpayer’s tax liability for a municipal corporation’s
income tax for the current taxable year.
      (2)   TAX LIABILITY means the total taxes due to a municipal corporation
for the taxable year, after allowing any credit to which the taxpayer is
entitled, and after applying any estimated tax payment, withholding payment, or
credit from another taxable year.
   (B)   (1)   Every taxpayer shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for
the current taxable year, on the form prescribed by the Tax Administrator, if
the amount payable as estimated taxes is at least $200. For the purposes of
this section:
         (a)   Taxes withheld from qualifying wages shall be considered as paid
to the municipal corporation for which the taxes were withheld in equal amounts
on each payment date. If the taxpayer establishes the dates on which all
amounts were actually withheld, the amounts withheld shall be considered as
paid on the dates on which the amounts were actually withheld.
         (b)   An overpayment of tax applied as a credit to a subsequent
taxable year is deemed to be paid on the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the payment is mailed or, if the payment is made by electronic
funds transfer, the date the payment is submitted. As used in this division,
DATE OF THE POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on the
cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
         (c)   A taxpayer having a taxable year of less than 12 months shall
make a declaration under rules prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
         (d)   Taxes withheld by a casino operator or by a lottery sales agent
under R.C. § 718.031 are deemed to be paid to the municipal corporation for
which the taxes were withheld on the date the taxes are withheld from the
taxpayer’s winnings.
      (2)   Taxpayers filing joint returns shall file joint declarations of
estimated taxes.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
date prescribed for the filing of municipal income tax returns under §
182.091(G) of this chapter or on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth
month of the first taxable year after the taxpayer becomes subject to tax for
the first time.
      (4)   Taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a declaration
on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the beginning of each
fiscal year or period.
      (5)   The original declaration or any subsequent amendment may be
increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment day as
provided in this section.
   (C)   (1)   The required portion of the tax liability for the taxable year
that shall be paid through estimated taxes made payable to the Municipality or
Tax Administrator, including the application of tax refunds to estimated taxes
and withholding on or before the applicable payment date, shall be as follows:
         (a)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 22.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (b)   On or before the fifteenth day of the sixth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 45% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (c)   On or before the fifteenth day of the ninth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 67.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (d)    For an individual, on or before the fifteenth day of the first
month of the following taxable year, 90% of the tax liability for the taxable
year. For a person other than an individual, on or before the fifteenth day of
the twelfth month of the taxable year, 90% of the tax liability for the taxable
year.
      (2)   A taxpayer may amend a declaration under rules prescribed by the
Tax Administrator. When an amended declaration has been filed, the unpaid
balance shown due on the amended declaration shall be paid in equal
installments on or before the remaining payment dates. The amended declaration
must be filed on the next applicable due date as outlined in divisions (C)(1)
(a) through (d) of this section.
      (3)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the year
following that for which the declaration or amended declaration was filed, an
annual return shall be filed and any balance which may be due shall be paid
with the return in accordance with §
182.091 of this chapter.
         (a)   For taxpayers who are individuals, or who are not individuals
and are reporting and filing on a calendar year basis, the annual tax return is
due on the same date as the filing of the federal tax return, unless extended
pursuant to R.C. § 5747.08(G).
         (b)   For taxpayers who are not individuals, and are reporting and
filing on a fiscal year basis or any period other than a calendar year, the
annual return is due on the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the end
of the taxable year or period.
      (4)   An amended declaration is required whenever the taxpayer’s
estimated tax liability changes during the taxable year. A change in estimated
tax liability may either increase or decrease the estimated tax liability for
the taxable year.
   (D)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of any portion of a tax
liability, penalty and interest may be imposed pursuant to §
182.10 of this chapter upon the amount of underpayment for the period of
underpayment, unless the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described
in division (E) of this section. The amount of the underpayment shall be
determined as follows:
         (a)   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, 22.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (b)   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, 45% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (c)   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, 67.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (d)   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, 90% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment.
      (2)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or before any payment
date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to the
extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently required to be paid to avoid any penalty.
   (E)   An underpayment of any portion of tax liability determined under
division (D) of this section shall be due to reasonable cause and the penalty
imposed by this section shall not be added to the taxes for the taxable year if
any of the following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 90% of
the tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by annualizing the
income received during the year up to the end of the month immediately
preceding the month in which the payment is due.
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 100%
of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for the preceding
taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable year reflected a
period of 12 months and the taxpayer filed a return with the municipal
corporation under §
182.091 of this chapter for that year.
      (3)   The taxpayer is an individual who resides in the Municipality but
was not domiciled there on the first day of January of the calendar year that
includes the first day of the taxable year.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may waive the requirement for filing a declaration
of estimated taxes for any class of taxpayers after finding that the waiver is
reasonable and proper in view of administrative costs and other factors.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 2018-30, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 182.08 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID.
§ 182.081 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID TO ANOTHER MUNICIPALITY AND FOR RESIDENT
HOMEOWNERS.
   (A)   Limitation on amount paid. Every individual taxpayer who resides in
the Municipality and who receives income, qualifying wages, commissions, or
other compensation or net profits from sales made, work done, or services
performed or rendered outside of the Municipality, if it be made to appear that
he has paid a municipal income tax on such income, taxable under this
ordinance, to another municipality, shall be allowed a credit for such tax paid
to the other municipality, against the tax imposed by this ordinance in an
amount not to exceed 100% of the income and/or earnings taxes paid and owed to
another municipality.
   (B)   Resident homeowners. Residents who own or have an equity interest into
the real estate that the resident is domiciled and pay real estate taxes shall
be allowed an exemption to be given as credit equal to 0.12% per annum. The
resident’s dependent shall also receive the credit equal to 0.12% per annum.
   (C)   Credits and limitations thereof. Notwithstanding the provisions
contained in this §
182.081, or any other provisions inconsistent herewith, a claim for refund or
credit under this section shall be made in such manner as the Tax Administrator
may by regulation provide.
      (1)   Resident individual.
         (a)   An individual taxpayer who resides in the municipality, and
earns qualifying wages for work done or services performed or rendered in any
municipal corporation, shall be allowed a credit in the amount of municipal
income tax paid by or on behalf of that individual if it is demonstrated that a
municipal income tax has been so paid. Total credit shall be allowed only to
the extent of the tax assessed by this chapter,
         (b)   A resident individual with income from an ownership interest in
one or more pass-through entities, activities of a sole proprietor, or rental
activities, after the deduction of distributable losses from other pass-through
entities or business activities not utilized as a net operating loss
carryforward in any municipal taxing jurisdiction after January 1, 2018, shall
be allowed a non-refundable credit for the amount so paid by or on behalf of
the resident individual in such other municipal corporation only to the extent
of the tax assessed by this chapter.
         (c)   The credit for tax paid by a resident individual for salaries or
wages earned in a non-resident municipal corporation is limited to the tax that
is paid after all allowable 2106 expenses have been deducted and shall not
exceed the tax established by this chapter.
         (d)   No credit shall be given for any county or school district
income tax.
      (2)   Non-resident individual.
         (a)   Every individual taxpayer who is a non-resident of the
municipality who earned qualifying wages for work done or services performed or
rendered in the municipality, shall be allowed a credit for the amount so paid
if it is demonstrated that a municipal income tax has been paid by or on behalf
of that individual. Such credit shall be applied only to the extent of the tax
assessed by this chapter.
         (b)   A non-resident individual with ownership interest in one or more
pass-through entities taxed at the entity level shall not report said income or
losses on a non-resident individual annual return and shall not be allowed any
credit for taxes paid on their behalf by the pass- through entity to any
municipal corporation.
         (c)   No credit shall be given to a non-resident individual for any
county or school district income tax.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.082 REFUNDABLE CREDIT FOR QUALIFYING LOSS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN means a compensation plan
described in § 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (A)(2)(b) of this section,
QUALIFYING LOSS means the excess, if any, of the total amount of compensation
the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred
compensation plan over the total amount of income the taxpayer has recognized
for federal income tax purposes for all taxable years on a cumulative basis as
compensation with respect to the taxpayer’s receipt of money and property
attributable to distributions in connection with the nonqualified deferred
compensation plan.
         (b)   If, for one or more taxable years, the taxpayer has not paid to
one or more municipal corporations income tax imposed on the entire amount of
compensation the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan, then the QUALIFYING LOSS is the product of the
amount resulting from the calculation described in division (A)(2)(a) of this
section computed without regard to division (A)(2)(b) of this section and a
fraction the numerator of which is the portion of such compensation on which
the taxpayer has paid income tax to one or more municipal corporations and the
denominator of which is the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         (c)   With respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the
taxpayer sustains a QUALIFYING LOSS only in the taxable year in which the
taxpayer receives the final distribution of money and property pursuant to that
non-qualified deferred compensation plan.
      (3)   QUALIFYING TAX RATE means the applicable tax rate for the taxable
year for which the taxpayer paid income tax to a municipal corporation with
respect to any portion of the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan. If different
tax rates applied for different taxable years, then the QUALIFYING TAX RATE is
a weighted average of those different tax rates. The weighted average shall be
based upon the tax paid to the municipal corporation each year with respect to
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a refundable
credit shall be allowed against the income tax imposed by a municipal
corporation for each qualifying loss sustained by a taxpayer during the taxable
year. The amount of the credit shall be equal to the product of the qualifying
loss and the qualifying tax rate.
      (2)   A taxpayer shall claim the credit allowed under this section from
each municipal corporation to which the taxpayer paid municipal income tax with
respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan in one or more taxable
years.
      (3)   If a taxpayer has paid tax to more than one municipal corporation
with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the amount of the
credit that a taxpayer may claim from each municipal corporation shall be
calculated on the basis of each municipal corporation’s proportionate share of
the total municipal corporation income tax paid by the taxpayer to all
municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation
plan.
      (4)   In no case shall the amount of the credit allowed under this
section exceed the cumulative income tax that a taxpayer has paid to a
municipal corporation for all taxable years with respect to the nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
   (C)   (1)   For purposes of this section, municipal corporation income tax
that has been withheld with respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation
plan shall be considered to have been paid by the taxpayer with respect to the
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (2)   Any municipal income tax that has been refunded or otherwise
credited for the benefit of the taxpayer with respect to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan shall not be considered to have been paid to the
municipal corporation by the taxpayer.
   (D)   The credit allowed under this section is allowed only to the extent
the taxpayer’s qualifying loss is attributable to:
      (1)   The insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer who had established
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan; or
      (2)   The employee’s failure or inability to satisfy all of the
employer’s terms and conditions necessary to receive the nonqualified deferred
compensation.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.083 CREDIT FOR TAX BEYOND STATUTE FOR OBTAINING REFUND.
   (A)   Income tax that has been deposited or paid to the Municipality, but
should have been deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, is
allowable by the Municipality as a refund, but is subject to the three-year
limitation on refunds as provided in §
182.096 of this chapter.
   (B)   Income tax that should have been deposited or paid to the
Municipality, but was deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, shall
be subject to collection and recovery by the Municipality. To the extent a
refund of such tax or withholding is barred by the limitation on refunds as
provided in §
182.096, the Municipality will allow a non-refundable credit equal to the tax
or withholding paid to the other municipality against the income tax the
Municipality claims is due. If the Municipality’s tax rate is higher, the tax
representing the net difference of the tax rates is also subject to collection
by the Municipality, along with any penalty and interest accruing during the
period of nonpayment.
   (C)   No carryforward of credit will be permitted when the overpayment is
beyond the three-year limitation for refunding of same as provided in §
182.096 of this chapter.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires a Municipality to allow credit for
tax paid to another municipal corporation if the Municipality has reduced
credit for tax paid to another municipal corporation. §
182.081 of this chapter regarding any limitation on credit shall prevail.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.09 ANNUAL RETURN.
§ 182.091 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   An annual return with respect to the income tax levied on
municipal taxable income by the Municipality shall be completed and filed by
every taxpayer for any taxable year for which the taxpayer is subject to the
tax, regardless of whether or not income tax is due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall accept on behalf of all nonresident
individual taxpayers a return filed by an employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer located in the Municipality under §
182.051(C) of this chapter when the nonresident individual taxpayer’s sole
income subject to the tax is the qualifying wages reported by the employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer, and no additional tax is due to the
Municipality.
      (3)   All resident individual taxpayers with taxable income shall file an
annual municipal income tax return with the Municipality, regardless of income
or liability. The fact that any resident individual taxpayer is not required to
file a federal return does not relieve the resident individual taxpayer from
filing a Municipality return.
   (B)   If an individual is deceased, any return or notice required of that
individual shall be completed and filed by that decedent’s executor,
administrator, or other person charged with the property of that decedent.
   (C)   If an individual is unable to complete and file a return or notice
required by the Municipality in accordance with this chapter, the return or
notice required of that individual shall be completed and filed by the
individual’s duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other
person charged with the care of the person or property of that individual. Such
duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other person
charged with the care of the person or property of that individual shall
provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support
that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer.
This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact
information including name, address, and phone number of the duly authorized
agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other person.
   (D)   Returns or notices required of an estate or a trust shall be completed
and filed by the fiduciary of the estate or trust. Such fiduciary shall
provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support
that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer.
This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact
information including name, address, and phone number of the fiduciary.
   (E)   No municipal corporation shall deny spouses the ability to file a
joint return.
   (F)   (1)   Each return required to be filed under this section shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer, and shall include
the taxpayer’s Social Security number or taxpayer identification number. Each
return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty of perjury.
      (2)   A taxpayer who is an individual is required to include, with each
annual return, amended return, or request for refund required under this
section, copies of only the following documents: all of the taxpayer’s Internal
Revenue Service form W-2, “Wage and Tax Statements,” including all information
reported on the taxpayer’s federal W-2, as well as taxable wages reported or
withheld for any municipal corporation; the taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service
form 1040; and, with respect to an amended tax return or refund request, any
other documentation necessary to support the refund request or the adjustments
made in the amended return. An individual taxpayer who files the annual return
required by this section electronically is not required to provide paper copies
of any of the foregoing to the Tax Administrator unless the Tax Administrator
requests such copies after the return has been filed.
      (3)   A taxpayer that is not an individual is required to include, with
each annual net profit return, amended net profit return, or request for refund
required under this section, copies of only the following documents: the
taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service form 1041, form 1065, form 1120, form 1120-
REIT, form 1120F, or form 1120S, and, with respect to an amended tax return or
refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the refund request
or the adjustments made in the amended return.
      (4)   A taxpayer that is not an individual and that files an annual net
profit return electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or in some other
manner shall either mail the documents required under this division to the Tax
Administrator at the time of filing or, if electronic submission is available,
submit the documents electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or a
portal provided by Municipality. The Department of Taxation shall publish a
method of electronically submitting the documents required under this division
through the Ohio Business Gateway on or before January 1, 2016. The Department
shall transmit all documents submitted electronically under this division to
the appropriate Tax Administrator.
      (5)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Administrator shall
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements, or
documents required by the Municipality to determine and verify the taxpayer’s
municipal income tax liability. The requirements imposed under division (F) of
this section apply regardless of whether the taxpayer files on a generic form
or on a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
      (6)   Any other documentation, including schedules, other municipal
income tax returns, or other supporting documentation necessary to verify
credits, income, losses, or other pertinent factors on the return shall also be
included to avoid delay in processing, or disallowance by the Tax Administrator
of undocumented credits or losses.
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each
individual income tax return required to be filed under this section shall be
completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator on or before the date
prescribed for the filing of state individual income tax returns under R.C. §
5747.08(G). The taxpayer shall complete and file the return or notice on forms
prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic forms, together with
remittance made payable to the Municipality or Tax Administrator.
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each annual net
profit income tax return required to be filed under this section by a taxpayer
that is not an individual shall be completed and filed as required by the Tax
Administrator on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the
end of the taxpayer’s taxable year or period. The taxpayer shall complete and
file the return or notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on
generic forms, together with remittance made payable to the Municipality or Tax
Administrator.
         (c)   In the case of individual income tax return required to be filed
by an individual, and net profit income tax return required to be filed by a
taxpayer who is not an individual, no remittance is required if the amount
shown to be due is $10 or less.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to ensure
the payment of the tax imposed by the Municipality in accordance with this
chapter, the Tax Administrator may require taxpayers to file returns and make
payments otherwise than as provided in this section, including taxpayers not
otherwise required to file annual returns.
      (3)   With respect to taxpayers to whom §
182.092 of this chapter applies, to the extent that any provision in this
division conflicts with any provision in §
182.092 of this chapter, the provision in §
182.092 of this chapter prevails.
   (H)   (1)   For taxable years beginning after 2015, the Municipality shall
not require a taxpayer to remit tax with respect to net profits if the amount
due is $10 or less.
      (2)   Any taxpayer not required to remit tax to the Municipality for a
taxable year pursuant to division (H)(1) of this section shall file with the
Municipality an annual net profit return under divisions (F)(3) and (4) of this
section.
   (I)   This division shall not apply to payments required to be made under §
182.051(B) of this chapter.
      (1)   If any report, claim, statement, or other document required to be
filed, or any payment required to be made, within a prescribed period or on or
before a prescribed date under this chapter is delivered after that period or
that to the Tax Administrator or other municipal official with which the
report, claim, statement, or other document is required to be filed, or to
which the payment is required to be made, the date of the postmark stamped on
the cover in which the report, claim, statement, or other document, or payment
is mailed shall be deemed to be the date of delivery or the date of payment.
THE DATE OF POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on the
cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
      (2)   If a payment is made by electronic funds transfer, the payment is
considered to be made on the date of the timestamp assigned by the first
electronic syste. For purposes of this section, SUBMITTED THE PAYMENT means the
date which the taxpayer has designated for the delivery of payment, which may
or  may not be the same date as the date the payment was initiated by the
taxpayer.
   (J)   The amounts withheld for the Municipality by an employer, the agent of
an employer, or other payer as described in §
182.051 of this chapter shall be allowed to the recipient of the compensation
as credits against payment of the tax imposed on the recipient unless the
amounts withheld were not remitted to the Municipality and the recipient
colluded with the employer, agent, or other payer in connection with the
failure to remit the amounts withheld.
   (K)   Each return required by the Municipality to be filed in accordance
with this section shall include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize
another person, including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to
communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters pertaining to the return.
The return or instructions accompanying the return shall indicate that by
checking the box the taxpayer authorizes the Tax Administrator to contact the
preparer or other person concerning questions that arise during the examination
or other review of the return and authorizes the preparer or other person only
to provide the Tax Administrator with information that is missing from the
return, to contact the Tax Administrator for information about the examination
or other review of the return or the status of the taxpayer’s refund or
payments, and to respond to notices about mathematical errors, offsets, or
return preparation that the taxpayer has received from the Tax Administrator
and has shown to the preparer or other person. Authorization by the taxpayer of
another person to communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters
pertaining to the return does not preclude the Tax Administrator from
contacting the taxpayer regarding such matters.
   (L)   The Tax Administrator of the Municipality shall accept for filing a
generic form of any income tax return, report, or document required by the
Municipality in accordance with this chapter, provided that the generic form,
once completed and filed, contains all of the information required by
ordinances, resolutions, or rules adopted by the Municipality or Tax
Administrator, and provided that the taxpayer or tax return preparer filing the
generic form otherwise complies with the provisions of this chapter and of the
Municipality’s ordinance or resolution governing the filing of returns,
reports, or documents.
   (M)   When income tax returns, reports, or other documents require the
signature of a tax return preparer, the Tax Administrator shall accept a
facsimile of such a signature in lieu of a manual signature.
   (N)   (1)   As used in this division, WORKSITE LOCATION has the same meaning
as in §
182.052 of this chapter.
      (2)   A person may notify a Tax Administrator that the person does not
expect to be a taxpayer with respect to the municipal corporation for a taxable
year if both of the following conditions apply:
         (a)   The person was required to file a tax return with the municipal
corporation for the immediately preceding taxable year because the person
performed services at a worksite location within the municipal corporation, and
the person has filed all appropriate and required returns and remitted all
applicable income tax and withholding payments as provided by this chapter. The
Tax Administrator is not required to accept an affidavit from a taxpayer who
has not complied with the provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   The person no longer provides services in the municipal
corporation, and does not expect to be subject to the municipal corporation’s
income tax for the taxable year.
      (3)   The person shall provide the notice in a signed affidavit that
briefly explains the person’s circumstances, including the location of the
previous worksite location and the last date on which the person performed
services or made any sales within the municipal corporation. The affidavit also
shall include the following statement: “The affiant has no plans to perform any
services within the municipal corporation, make any sales in the municipal
corporation, or otherwise become subject to the tax levied by the municipal
corporation during the taxable year. If the affiant does become subject to the
tax levied by the municipal corporation for the taxable year, the affiant
agrees to be considered a taxpayer and to properly register as a taxpayer with
the municipal corporation, if such a registration is required by the municipal
corporation’s resolutions, ordinances, or rules.” The person shall sign the
affidavit under penalty of perjury.
      (4)   If a person submits an affidavit described in division (N)(3) of
this section, the Tax Administrator shall not require the person to file any
tax return for the taxable year unless the Tax Administrator possesses
information that conflicts with the affidavit or if the circumstances described
in the affidavit change, or the taxpayer has engaged in activity which results
in work being performed, services provided, sales made, or other activity that
results in municipal taxable income reportable to the Municipality in the
taxable year. It shall be the responsibility of the taxpayer to comply with the
provisions of this chapter relating to the reporting and filing of municipal
taxable income on an annual municipal income tax return, even if an affidavit
has been filed with the Tax Administrator for the taxable year. Nothing in
division (N) of this section prohibits the Tax Administrator from performing an
audit of the person.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 2018-30, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 182.092 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX; INDIVIDUALS SERVING IN COMBAT ZONE.
   (A)   Each member of the National Guard of any state and each member of a
reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States called to active
duty pursuant to an executive order issued by the President of the United
States or an act of the Congress of the United States, and each civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the Armed Forces, may apply to the Tax Administrator of the
Municipality for both an extension of time for filing of the return and an
extension of time for payment of taxes required by the Municipality in
accordance with this chapter during the period of the member’s or civilian’s
duty service and for 180 days thereafter. The application shall be filed on or
before the one hundred eightieth day after the member’s or civilian’s duty
terminates. An applicant shall provide such evidence as the Tax Administrator
considers necessary to demonstrate eligibility for the extension.
   (B)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the Tax Administrator shall
enter into a contract with the applicant for the payment of the tax in
installments that begin on the one hundred eighty-first day after the
applicant’s active duty or service terminates. Except as provided in division
(B)(3) of this section, the Tax Administrator may prescribe such contract terms
as the Tax Administrator considers appropriate.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is qualified
for an extension under this section, the applicant shall neither be required to
file any return, report, or other tax document nor be required to pay any tax
otherwise due to the Municipality before the one hundred eighty-first day after
the applicant’s active duty or service terminates.
      (3)   Taxes paid pursuant to a contract entered into under division (B)
(1) of this section are not delinquent. The Tax Administrator shall not require
any payments of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for the
extension period.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this division denies to any person described in this
division the application of divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   A qualifying taxpayer who is eligible for an extension under
the Internal Revenue Code shall receive both an extension of time in which to
file any return, report, or other tax document and an extension of time in
which to make any payment of taxes required by the Municipality in accordance
with this chapter. The length of any extension granted under division (C)(2)(a)
of this section shall be equal to the length of the corresponding extension
that the taxpayer receives under the Internal Revenue Code. As used in this
section, QUALIFYING TAXPAYER means a member of the National Guard or a member
of a reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States called to
active duty pursuant to either an executive order issued by the President of
the United States or an act of the Congress of the United States, or a civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the Armed Forces.
         (b)   Taxes the payment of which are extended in accordance with
division (C)(2)(a) of this section are not delinquent during the extension
period. Such taxes become delinquent on the first day after the expiration of
the extension period if the taxes are not paid prior to that date. The Tax
Administrator shall not require any payment of penalties or interest in
connection with those taxes for the extension period. The Tax Administrator
shall not include any period of extension granted under division (C)(2)(a) of
this section in calculating the penalty or interest due on any unpaid tax.
   (D)   For each taxable year to which division (A), (B), or (C) of this
section applies to a taxpayer, the provisions of divisions (B)(2) and (3) or
(C) of this section, as applicable, apply to the spouse of that taxpayer if the
filing status of the spouse and the taxpayer is married filing jointly for that
year.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.093 USE OF OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY; TYPES OF FILINGS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Any taxpayer subject to municipal income taxation with respect to the
taxpayer’s net profit from a business or profession may file any municipal
income tax return, or estimated municipal income tax return, or extension for
filing a municipal income tax return, and may make payment of amounts shown to
be due on such returns, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (B)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may report the
amount of municipal income tax withheld from qualifying wages, and may make
remittance of such amounts, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (C)   Nothing in this section affects the due dates for filing employer
withholding tax returns or deposit of any required tax.
   (D)   The use of the Ohio Business Gateway by municipal corporations,
taxpayers, or other persons does not affect the legal rights of municipalities
or taxpayers as otherwise permitted by law. The State of Ohio shall not be a
party to the administration of municipal income taxes or to an appeal of a
municipal income tax matter, except as otherwise specifically provided by law.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting or removing the
authority of any municipal corporation to administer, audit, and enforce the
provisions of its municipal income tax.
   (F)   This division is not subject to R.C. §§ 718.80 to 718.95. See §
182.097 for election to be subject to R.C. §§ 718.80 to 718.95.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 2018-30, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 182.094 EXTENSION OF TIME TO FILE.
   (A)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return shall automatically receive
an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax return. The extended due
date of the municipal income tax return shall be the fifteenth day of the tenth
month after the last day of the taxable year to which the return relates.
   (B)   Any taxpayer that qualifies for an automatic federal extension for a
period other than six-months for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax
return shall automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return
shall be the same as that of the extended federal income tax return.
   (C)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return may request that the Tax
Administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of the date for filing
the taxpayer’s municipal income tax return. If the request is received by the
Tax Administrator on or before the date the municipal income tax return is due,
the Tax Administrator shall grant the taxpayer’s requested extension.
   (D)   An extension of time to file under this chapter is not an extension of
the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax Administrator grants an extension of
that date.
   (E)   If the State Tax Administrator extends for all taxpayers the date for
filing state income tax returns under R.C. § 5747.08(G), a taxpayer shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax
return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return shall be the
same as the extended due date of the state income tax return.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.095 AMENDED RETURNS.
   (A)   (1)   A taxpayer shall file an amended return with the Tax
Administrator in such form as the Tax Administrator requires if any of the
facts, figures, computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer’s annual
return to determine the tax due levied by the Municipality in accordance with
this chapter must be altered.
      (2)   Within 60 days after the final determination of any federal or
state tax liability affecting the taxpayer’s municipal tax liability, that
taxpayer shall make and file an amended municipal return showing income subject
to the municipal income tax based upon such final determination of federal or
state tax liability, and pay any additional municipal income tax shown due
thereon or make a claim for refund of any overpayment, unless the tax or
overpayment is $10 or less.
      (3)   If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal
income tax return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a
consolidated return, based on the taxpayer’s consolidated federal income tax
return, the taxpayer shall notify the Tax Administrator before filing the
amended return.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due together with any
penalty and interest thereon. If the combined tax shown to be due is $10 or
less, such amount need not accompany the amended return. Except as provided
under division (B)(2) of this section, the amended return shall not reopen
those facts, figures, computations, or attachments from a previously filed
return that are not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment
to the taxpayer’s federal or state income tax return unless the applicable
statute of limitations for civil actions or prosecutions under §
182.19 of this chapter has not expired for a previously filed return.
      (2)   The additional tax to be paid shall not exceed the amount of tax
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened.
   (C)   (1)   In the case of an overpayment, a request for refund may be filed
under this division within the period prescribed in §
182.096 of this chapter for filing the amended return even if it is filed
beyond the period prescribed in that division if it otherwise conforms to the
requirements of that division. If the amount of the refund is $10 or less, no
refund need be paid by the Municipality to the taxpayer. Except as set forth in
division (C)(2) of this section, a request filed under this division shall
claim refund of overpayments resulting from alterations to only those facts,
figures, computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer’s annual return
that are affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the
taxpayer’s federal or state income tax return unless it is also filed within
the time prescribed in §
182.096 of this chapter. Except as set forth in division (C)(2) of this
section, the request shall not reopen those facts, figures, computations, or
attachments that are not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the
adjustment to the taxpayer’s federal or state income tax return.
      (2)   The amount to be refunded shall not exceed the amount of refund
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.096 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a request for a refund or credit, the Tax
Administrator of the Municipality, in accordance with this section, shall
refund to employers, agents of employers, other payers, or taxpayers, with
respect to any income or withholding tax levied by the Municipality:
      (1)   Overpayments of more than $10; and
      (2)   Amounts paid erroneously if the refund requested exceeds $10.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, returns setting
forth a request for refund shall be filed with the Tax Administrator, within
three years after the tax was due or paid, whichever is later. Any
documentation that substantiates the taxpayer’s claim for a refund must be
included with the return filing. Failure to remit all documentation, including
schedules, other municipal income tax returns, or other supporting
documentation necessary to verify credits, income, losses or other pertinent
factors on the return will cause delay in processing, and/or disallowance of
undocumented credits or losses.
      (2)   On filing of the refund request, the Tax Administrator shall
determine the amount of refund due and certify such amount to the appropriate
municipal corporation official for payment. Except as provided in division (B)
(3) of this section, the Administrator shall issue an assessment to any
taxpayer whose request for refund is fully or partially denied. The assessment
shall state the amount of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the
denial, and instructions for appealing the assessment.
      (3)   If a Tax Administrator denies in whole or in part a refund request
included within the taxpayer’s originally filed annual income tax return, the
Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer, in writing, of the amount of the
refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial, and instructions for
requesting an assessment that may be appealed under §
182.18 of this chapter.
   (C)   A request for a refund that is received after the last day for filing
specified in division (B) of this section shall be considered to have been
filed in a timely manner if any of the following situations exist:
      (1)   The request is delivered by the postal service, and the earliest
postal service postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed is not
later than the last day for filing the request.
      (2)   The request is delivered by the postal service, the only postmark
on the cover in which the request is enclosed was affixed by a private postal
meter, the date of that postmark is not later than the last day for filing the
request, and the request is received within seven days of such last day.
      (3)   The request is delivered by the postal service, no postmark date
was affixed to the cover in which the request is enclosed or the date of the
postmark so affixed is not legible, and the request is received within seven
days of the last day for making the request.
   (D)   Interest shall be allowed and paid on any overpayment by a taxpayer of
any municipal income tax obligation from the date of the overpayment until the
date of the refund of the overpayment, except that if any overpayment is
refunded within 90 days after the final filing date of the annual return or 90
days after the completed return is filed, whichever is later, no interest shall
be allowed on the refund. For the purpose of computing the payment of interest
on amounts overpaid, no amount of tax for any taxable year shall be considered
to have been paid before the date on which the return on which the tax is
reported is due, without regard to any extension of time for filing that
return. Interest shall be paid at the interest rate described in §
182.10(A)(4) of this chapter.
   (E)   As used in this section, WITHHOLDING TAX has the same meaning as in §
182.10 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.097 TAXPAYER ELECTION TO BE SUBJECT TO R.C. §§ 718.80 TO 718.95.
   (A)   (1)   A taxpayer who is not an individual or a sole proprietor or
disregarded entity may elect to be subject to R.C. §§ 718.80 to 718.95 by
making the initial election with the State of Ohio Tax Commissioner. A taxpayer
shall make the initial election on or before the first day of the third month
after the beginning of the taxpayer's taxable year by notifying the State of
Ohio Tax Commissioner and each municipal corporation in which the taxpayer
conducted business during the previous taxable year, on a form prescribed by
the State of Ohio Tax Commissioner.
      (2)   (a)   The election, once made by the taxpayer, applies to the
taxable year in which the election is made and to each subsequent taxable year
until the taxpayer notifies the State of Ohio Tax Commissioner and each
municipal corporation in which the taxpayer conducted business during the
previous taxable year of its termination of the election.
         (b)   A notification of termination shall be made, on a form
prescribed by the State of Ohio Tax Commissioner, on or before the first day of
the third month of any taxable year.
         (c)   Upon a timely and valid termination of the election, the
taxpayer is no longer subject to R.C. §§ 718.80 to 718.95, and is instead
subject to the provisions set forth in the remainder of R.C. Chapter 718 in
addition to the remainder of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon the taxpayer's election, both of the following shall apply:
      (1)   The State of Ohio Tax Commissioner shall serve as the sole
administrator of each municipal income tax for which the taxpayer is liable for
the term of the election;
      (2)   The State of Ohio Tax Commissioner shall administer the tax
pursuant to R.C. §§ 718.80 to 718.95 and any applicable provision of R.C.
Chapter 5703.
(Ord. 2018-30, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 182.10 PENALTY, INTEREST, FEES, AND CHARGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   APPLICABLE LAW means this chapter, the resolutions, ordinances,
codes, directives, instructions, and rules adopted by the Municipality provided
such resolutions, ordinances, codes, directives, instructions, and rules
impose, or directly or indirectly address, the levy, payment, remittance, or
filing requirements of a municipal income tax.
      (2)   FEDERAL SHORT-TERM RATE means the rate of the average market yield
on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining
periods to maturity of three years or less, as determined under § 1274 of the
Internal Revenue Code, for July of the current year.
      (3)   INCOME TAX, ESTIMATED INCOME TAX, and WITHHOLDING TAX mean any
income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax imposed by a municipal
corporation pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1,
2016.
      (4)   INTEREST RATE AS DESCRIBED IN DIVISION (A) OF THIS SECTION means
the federal short-term rate, rounded to the nearest whole number percent, plus
5%. The rate shall apply for the calendar year next following the July of the
year in which the federal short-term rate is determined in accordance with
division (A)(2) of this section.
      (5)   RETURN includes any tax return, report, reconciliation, schedule,
and other document required to be filed with a Tax Administrator or municipal
corporation by a taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer, or any other
payer pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      (6)   UNPAID ESTIMATED INCOME TAX means estimated income tax due but not
paid by the date the tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (7)   UNPAID INCOME TAX means income tax due but not paid by the date the
income tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (8)   UNPAID WITHHOLDING TAX means withholding tax due but not paid by
the date the withholding tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (9)   WITHHOLDING TAX includes amounts an employer, any agent of an
employer, or any other payer did not withhold in whole or in part from an
employee’s qualifying wages, but that, under applicable law, the employer,
agent, or other payer is required to withhold from an employee’s qualifying
wages.
   (B)   (1)   This section shall apply to the following:
         (a)   Any return required to be filed under applicable law for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016;
         (b)   Income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax required
to be paid or remitted to the Municipality on or after January 1, 2016 for
taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016.
      (2)   This section does not apply to returns required to be filed or
payments required to be made before January 1, 2016, regardless of the filing
or payment date. Returns required to be filed or payments required to be made
before January 1, 2016, but filed or paid after that date shall be subject to
the ordinances or rules, as adopted from time to time before January 1, 2016 of
this Municipality.
   (C)   The Municipality shall impose on a taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer, and any other payer, and will attempt to collect, the interest
amounts and penalties prescribed in this section when the taxpayer, employer,
any agent of the employer, or any other payer for any reason fails, in whole or
in part, to make to the Municipality timely and full payment or remittance of
income tax, estimated income tax, or withholding tax or to file timely with the
Municipality any return required to be filed.
      (1)   Interest shall be imposed at the rate defined as “interest rate” as
described in division (A) of this section, per annum, on all unpaid income tax,
unpaid estimated income tax, and unpaid withholding tax. This imposition of
interest shall be assessed per month, or fraction of a month.
      (2)   With respect to unpaid income tax and unpaid estimated income tax,
a penalty equal to 15% of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (3)   With respect to any unpaid withholding tax, a penalty equal to 50%
of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (4)   With respect to returns other than estimated income tax returns,
the Municipality shall impose a monthly penalty of $25 for each failure to
timely file each return, regardless of the liability shown thereon for each
month, or any fraction thereof, during which the return remains unfiled
regardless of the liability shown thereon. The penalty shall not exceed a total
of $150 in assessed penalty for each failure to timely file a return.
   (D)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes, and returns, the Municipality shall not impose, seek to collect, or
collect any penalty, amount of interest, charges or additional fees not
described in this section.
   (E)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes, and returns, the Municipality shall not refund or credit any penalty,
amount of interest, charges, or additional fees that were properly imposed or
collected before January 1, 2016.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may, in the Tax Administrator’s sole discretion,
abate or partially abate penalties or interest imposed under this section when
the Tax Administrator deems such abatement or partial abatement to be
appropriate. Such abatement or partial abatement shall be properly documented
and maintained on the record of the taxpayer who received benefit of such
abatement or partial abatement.
   (G)   The Municipality shall impose on the taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer, or any other payer the Municipality’s post-judgment collection
costs and fees, including attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.11 AUDIT.
   (A)   At or before the commencement of an audit, as defined in §
182.03(C) of this chapter, the Tax Administrator shall provide to the taxpayer
a written description of the roles of the Tax Administrator and of the taxpayer
during an audit and a statement of the taxpayer’s rights, including any right
to obtain a refund of an overpayment of tax. At or before the commencement of
an audit, the Tax Administrator shall inform the taxpayer when the audit is
considered to have commenced.
   (B)   Except in cases involving suspected criminal activity, the Tax
Administrator shall conduct an audit of a taxpayer during regular business
hours and after providing reasonable notice to the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is
unable to comply with a proposed time for an audit on the grounds that the
proposed time would cause inconvenience or hardship must offer reasonable
alternative dates for the audit.
   (C)   At all stages of an audit by the Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is
entitled to be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant, bookkeeper,
or other tax practitioner. The Tax Administrator shall prescribe a form by
which a taxpayer may designate such a person to assist or represent the
taxpayer in the conduct of any proceedings resulting from actions by the Tax
Administrator. If a taxpayer has not submitted such a form, the Tax
Administrator may accept other evidence, as the Tax Administrator considers
appropriate, that a person is the authorized representative of a taxpayer. A
taxpayer may refuse to answer any questions asked by the person conducting an
audit until the taxpayer has an opportunity to consult with the taxpayer’s
attorney, accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner. This division does
not authorize the practice of law by a person who is not an attorney.
   (D)   A taxpayer may record, electronically or otherwise, the audit
examination.
   (E)   The failure of the Tax Administrator to comply with a provision of
this section shall neither excuse a taxpayer from payment of any taxes owed by
the taxpayer nor cure any procedural defect in a taxpayer’s case.
   (F)   If the Tax Administrator fails to substantially comply with the
provisions of this section, the Tax Administrator, upon application by the
taxpayer, shall excuse the taxpayer from penalties and interest arising from
the audit.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.12 ROUNDING.
   A person may round to the nearest whole dollar all amounts the person is
required to enter on any return, report, voucher, or other document required
under this chapter. Any fractional part of a dollar that equals or exceeds
$0.50 shall be rounded to the next whole dollar, and any fractional part of a
dollar that is less than $0.50 shall be dropped, rounding down to the nearest
whole dollar. If a person chooses to round amounts entered on a document, the
person shall round all amounts entered on the document.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.13 AUTHORITY AND POWERS OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
§ 182.131 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; RIGHT TO EXAMINE.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator, or any authorized agent or employee thereof may
examine the books, papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns of
any employer, taxpayer, or other person that is subject to, or that the Tax
Administrator believes is subject to, the provisions of this chapter for the
purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no return was
filed, to ascertain the tax due under this chapter. Upon written request by the
Tax Administrator or a duly authorized agent or employee thereof, every
employer, taxpayer, or other person subject to this section is required to
furnish the opportunity for the Tax Administrator, authorized agent, or
employee to investigate and examine such books, papers, records, and federal
and state income tax returns at a reasonable time and place designated in the
request.
   (B)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer, employer, or other
person that is subject to, or that a Tax Administrator believes is subject to,
the provisions of this chapter shall be open to the Tax Administrator’s
inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a period of six
years following the end of the taxable year to which the records or documents
relate, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to their destruction
within that period, or by order requires that they be kept longer. The Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may require any person, by notice
served on that person, to keep such records as the Tax Administrator determines
necessary to show whether or not that person is liable, and the extent of such
liability, for the income tax levied by the Municipality or for the withholding
of such tax.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator may examine under oath any person that the Tax
Administrator reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that was
or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to affect
such income. The Tax Administrator may, for this purpose, compel any such
person to attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books, papers,
records, and federal and state income tax returns in such person’s possession
or control. The person may be assisted or represented by an attorney,
accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner at any such hearing or
examination. This division does not authorize the practice of law by a person
who is not an attorney.
   (D)   No person issued written notice by the Tax Administrator compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records, or federal and state income tax returns under this section shall fail
to comply.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.132 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; COMPROMISE OF CLAIM AND PAYMENT OVER
TIME.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a claim for an amount payable to
the Municipality that arises pursuant to the municipal income tax imposed in
accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator may do either of the following if such action is
in the best interests of the Municipality:
      (1)   Compromise a claim; or
      (2)   Extend for a reasonable period the time for payment of a claim by
agreeing to accept monthly or other periodic payments, upon such terms and
conditions as the Tax Administrator may require.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator’s rejection of a compromise or payment-over-time
agreement proposed by a person with respect to a claim shall not be appealable.
   (D)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of only the parties to the
compromise or agreement, and shall not extinguish or otherwise affect the
liability of any other person.
   (E)   (1)   A compromise or payment- over-time agreement with respect to a
claim shall be void if the taxpayer defaults under the compromise or agreement
or if the compromise or agreement was obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation
of a material fact. Any amount that was due before the compromise or agreement
and that is unpaid shall remain due, and any penalties or interest that would
have accrued in the absence of the compromise or agreement shall continue to
accrue and be due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall have sole discretion to determine
whether or not penalty, interest, charges or applicable fees will be assessed
through the duration of any compromise or payment-over-time agreement.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may require that the taxpayer provide detailed
financial documentation and information, in order to determine whether or not a
payment-over-time agreement will be authorized. The taxpayer’s failure to
provide the necessary and required information by the Tax Administrator shall
preclude consideration of a payment-over-time agreement.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.133 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS OF THE TAX
COMMISSIONER.
   The Tax Administrator has the authority to perform all duties and functions
necessary and appropriate to implement the provisions of this chapter,
including without limitation:
   (A)   Exercise all powers whatsoever of an inquisitorial nature as provided
by law, including, the right to inspect books, accounts, records, memorandums,
and federal and state income tax returns, to examine persons under oath, to
issue orders or subpoenas for the production of books, accounts, papers,
records, documents, and testimony, to take depositions, to apply to a court for
attachment proceedings as for contempt, to approve vouchers for the fees of
officers and witnesses, and to administer oaths; provided that the powers
referred to in this division of this section shall be exercised by the Tax
Administrator only in connection with the performance of the duties
respectively assigned to the Tax Administrator under a municipal corporation
income tax ordinance or resolution adopted in accordance with this chapter;
   (B)   Appoint agents and prescribe their powers and duties per codified
ordinance
Chapter 183 and
Chapter 165;
   (C)   Confer and meet with officers of other municipal corporations and
states and officers of the United States on any matters pertaining to their
respective official duties as provided by law;
   (D)   Exercise the authority provided by law, including orders from
bankruptcy courts, relative to remitting or refunding taxes, including
penalties and interest thereon, illegally or erroneously imposed or collected,
or for any other reason overpaid, and, in addition, the Tax Administrator may
investigate any claim of overpayment and make a written statement of the Tax
Administrator’s findings, and, if the Tax Administrator finds that there has
been an overpayment, approve and issue a refund payable to the taxpayer, the
taxpayer’s assigns, or legal representative as provided in this chapter;
   (E)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to consenting to the
compromise and settlement of tax claims;
   (F)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to the use of
alternative apportionment methods by taxpayers in accordance with §
182.062 of this chapter;
   (G)   Make all tax findings, determinations, computations, assessments and
orders the Tax Administrator is by law authorized and required to make and,
pursuant to time limitations provided by law, on the Tax Administrator’s own
motion, review, redetermine, or correct any tax findings, determinations,
computations, assessments or orders the Tax Administrator has made, but the Tax
Administrator shall not review, redetermine, or correct any tax finding,
determination, computation, assessment or order which the Tax Administrator has
made for which an appeal has been filed with the Local Board of Tax Review or
other appropriate tribunal, unless such appeal or application is withdrawn by
the appellant or applicant, is dismissed, or is otherwise final;
   (H)   Destroy any or all returns or other tax documents in the manner
authorized by law;
   (I)   Enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to simplify the withholding
obligations described in §
182.051 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.134 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; REQUIRING IDENTIFYING INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator may require any person filing a tax document
with the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information, which may
include the person’s Social Security number, federal employer identification
number, or other identification number requested by the Tax Administrator. A
person required by the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information
that has experienced any change with respect to that information shall notify
the Tax Administrator of the change before, or upon, filing the next tax
document requiring the identifying information.
   (B)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator makes a request for identifying
information and the Tax Administrator does not receive valid identifying
information within 30 days of making the request, nothing in this chapter
prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty upon the person to whom
the request was directed pursuant to §
182.10 of this chapter, in addition to any applicable penalty described in §
182.99 of this chapter.
      (2)   If a person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information does not notify the Tax Administrator of a change with
respect to that information as required under division (A) of this section
within 30 days after filing the next tax document requiring such identifying
information, nothing in this chapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from
imposing a penalty pursuant to §
182.10 of this chapter.
      (3)   The penalties provided for under divisions (B)(1) and (2) of this
section may be billed and imposed in the same manner as the tax or fee with
respect to which the identifying information is sought and are in addition to
any applicable criminal penalties described in §
182.99 of this chapter for a violation of §
182.15 of this chapter and any other penalties that may be imposed by the Tax
Administrator by law.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.14 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings, or verifications required or authorized by R.C. Chapter 718 or by the
charter or ordinance of the Municipality is confidential, and no person shall
access or disclose such information except in accordance with a proper judicial
order or in connection with the performance of that person’s official duties or
the official business of the Municipality as authorized by R.C. Chapter 718 or
the charter or ordinance authorizing the levy. The Tax Administrator of the
Municipality or a designee thereof may furnish copies of returns filed or
otherwise received under this chapter and other related tax information to the
Internal Revenue Service, the State Tax Administrator, and tax administrators
of other municipal corporations.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the Municipality from publishing or
disclosing statistics in a form that does not disclose information with respect
to particular taxpayers.
   (C)   As used in this section, INCOME TAX DEPARTMENT OR OFFICE means the
office administering this chapter.
      (1)   All employees of the Municipality Income Tax Office shall maintain
complete confidentiality over all data and statistical information compiled by
them in their capacity as employees of the Municipality Income Tax Office,
subject to the exceptions provided for in this section. This section shall
apply only to the Municipality income tax, and not to any other tax data
gathered by such employees in the normal course of their employment. All
confidential information may be subject to court order or subpoena, or may be
disclosed upon a proper release executed by the affected taxpayer.
      (2)   The following statistical data may be transmitted to another
Municipality department for internal administrative purposes: information that
may be obtained from a separate source, including names, addresses and
telephone numbers.
      (3)   The following statistical data may be transmitted to another
Municipality department for internal administrative purposes: data regarding
the collective payroll withholding taxes of a business entity located within
the Municipality, as long as such business entity involves more than one
individual for whom the withholding tax payments are being generated.
      (4)   The following statistical data may be transmitted to another
Municipality department for internal administrative purposes: data regarding
the number of employees and the total payroll taxes generated by all employees
of a business entity located within the Municipality as long as the business
entity employs more than one individual at any time. This data shall only
include the total number of employees and the combined total payroll taxes, and
shall not include earnings or payroll taxes of individual employees of such
business entity.
      (5)   No employee of the Municipality Income Tax Department shall
disclose to the general public or to any other Municipality department data
concerning individual earnings or profits earned by an individual or by a
business entity. No statistical or administrative data shall be disseminated or
disclosed to members of the general public.
      (6)   Upon proper release, individual data, including confidential data,
may be released. The Municipality Income Tax Office shall maintain a copy of
the release after such data has been disclosed.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.15 FRAUD.
   No person shall knowingly make, present, aid, or assist in the preparation
or presentation of a false or fraudulent report, return, schedule, statement,
claim, or document authorized or required by municipal corporation ordinance or
state law to be filed with the Tax Administrator, or knowingly procure,
counsel, or advise the preparation or presentation of such report, return,
schedule, statement, claim, or document, or knowingly change, alter, or amend,
or knowingly procure, counsel or advise such change, alteration, or amendment
of the records upon which such report, return, schedule, statement, claim, or
document is based with intent to defraud the Municipality or the Tax
Administrator.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.16 OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   An OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR means an opinion issued under this
section with respect to prospective municipal income tax liability. It does not
include ordinary correspondence of the Tax Administrator.
   (B)   A taxpayer may submit a written request for an opinion of the Tax
Administrator as to whether or how certain income, source of income, or a
certain activity or transaction will be taxed. The written response of the Tax
Administrator shall be an “opinion of the Tax Administrator” and shall bind the
Tax Administrator, in accordance with divisions (C), (G), and (H) of this
section, provided all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The taxpayer’s request fully and accurately describes the specific
facts or circumstances relevant to a determination of the taxability of the
income, source of income, activity, or transaction, and, if an activity or
transaction, all parties involved in the activity or transaction are clearly
identified by name, location, or other pertinent facts;
      (2)   The request relates to a tax imposed by the Municipality in
accordance with this chapter; and
      (3)   The Tax Administrator’s response is signed by the Tax Administrator
and designated as an “opinion of the Tax Administrator.”
   (C)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator shall remain in effect and shall
protect the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and who reasonably
relies on it from liability for any taxes, penalty, or interest otherwise
chargeable on the activity or transaction specifically held by the Tax
Administrator’s opinion to be taxable in a particular manner or not to be
subject to taxation for any taxable years that may be specified in the opinion,
or until the earliest of the following dates:
      (1)   The effective date of a written revocation by the Tax Administrator
sent to the taxpayer by certified mail, return receipt requested. The effective
date of the revocation shall be the taxpayer’s date of receipt or one year
after the issuance of the opinion, whichever is later;
      (2)   The effective date of any amendment or enactment of a relevant
section of the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified state law, or the Municipality’s
income tax ordinance that would substantially change the analysis and
conclusion of the opinion of the Tax Administrator;
      (3)   The date on which a court issues an opinion establishing or
changing relevant case law with respect to the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified
state law, or the Municipality’s income tax ordinance;
      (4)   If the opinion of the Tax Administrator was based on the
interpretation of federal law, the effective date of any change in the relevant
federal statutes or regulations, or the date on which a court issues an opinion
establishing or changing relevant case law with respect to federal statutes or
regulations;
      (5)   The effective date of any change in the taxpayer’s material facts
or circumstances; and
      (6)   The effective date of the expiration of the opinion, if specified
in the opinion.
   (D)   (1)   A taxpayer is not relieved of tax liability for any activity or
transaction related to a request for an opinion that contained any
misrepresentation or omission of one or more material facts.
      (2)   If the taxpayer knowingly has misrepresented the pertinent facts or
omitted material facts with intent to defraud the Municipality in order to
obtain a more favorable opinion, the taxpayer maybe in violation of §
182.15 of this chapter.
   (E)   If a Tax Administrator provides written advice under this section, the
opinion shall include a statement that:
      (1)   The tax consequences stated in the opinion may be subject to change
for any of the reasons stated in division (C) of this section; and
      (2)   It is the duty of the taxpayer to be aware of such changes.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may refuse to offer an opinion on any request
received under this section.
   (G)   This section binds a Tax Administrator only with respect to opinions
of the Tax Administrator issued on or after January 1, 2016.
   (H)   An opinion of a Tax Administrator binds that Tax Administrator only
with respect to the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and does not
bind the tax administrator of any other municipal corporation.
   (I)   A Tax Administrator shall make available the text of all opinions
issued under this section, except those opinions prepared for a taxpayer who
has requested that the text of the opinion remain confidential. In no event
shall the text of an opinion be made available until the Tax Administrator has
removed all information that identifies the taxpayer and any other parties
involved in the activity or transaction.
   (J)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator issued under this section or a
refusal to offer an opinion under division (F) may not be appealed.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.17 ASSESSMENT; APPEAL BASED ON PRESUMPTION OF DELIVERY.
   (A)   (1)   The Tax Administrator shall serve an assessment either by
personal service, by certified mail, or by a delivery service authorized under
R.C. § 5703.056.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator may deliver the assessment through
alternative means as provided in this section, including, but not limited to,
delivery by secure electronic mail. Such alternative delivery method must be
authorized by the person subject to the assessment.
      (3)   Once service of the assessment has been made by the Tax
Administrator or other municipal official, or the designee of either, the
person to whom the assessment is directed may protest the ruling of that
assessment by filing an appeal with the Local Board of Tax Review within 60
days after the receipt of service. The delivery of an assessment of the Tax
Administrator as prescribed in R.C. § 718.18 is prima facie evidence that
delivery is complete and that the assessment is served.
   (B)   (1)   A person may challenge the presumption of delivery and service
as set forth in this division. A person disputing the presumption of delivery
and service under this section bears the burden of proving by a preponderance
of the evidence that the address to which the assessment was sent was not an
address with which the person was associated at the time the Tax Administrator
originally mailed the assessment by certified mail. For the purposes of this
section, a person is associated with an address at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the assessment if, at that time, the person was
residing, receiving legal documents, or conducting business at the address; or
if, before that time, the person had conducted business at the address and,
when the assessment was mailed, the person’s agent or the person’s affiliate
was conducting business at the address. For the purposes of this section, a
person’s affiliate is any other person that, at the time the assessment was
mailed, owned or controlled at least 20%, as determined by voting rights, of
the addressee’s business.
      (2)   If a person elects to appeal an assessment on the basis described
in division (B)(1) of this section, and if that assessment is subject to
collection and is not otherwise appealable, the person must do so within 60
days after the initial contact by the Tax Administrator or other municipal
official, or the designee of either, with the person. Nothing in this division
prevents the Tax Administrator or other official from entering into a
compromise with the person if the person does not actually file such an appeal
with the Local Board of Tax Review.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.18 LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW; APPEAL TO LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   The legislative authority of the Municipality shall maintain a
Local Board of Tax Review to hear appeals as provided in R.C. Chapter 718.
      (2)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall consist of three members.
         (a)   Two members shall be appointed by the legislative authority of
the Municipality, and may not be employees, elected officials, or contractors
with the Municipality at any time during their term or in the five years
immediately preceding the date of appointment.
         (b)   One member shall be appointed by the City Manager, the top
administrative official of the Municipality. This member may be an employee of
the Municipality, but may not be the Director of Finance or equivalent officer,
or the Tax Administrator or other similar official or an employee directly
involved in municipal tax matters, or any direct subordinate thereof.
      (3)   The term for members of the Local Board of Tax Review appointed by
the legislative authority of the Municipality shall be two years. There is no
limit on the number of terms that a member may serve should the member be
reappointed by the legislative authority. The board member appointed by the top
administrative official of the Municipality shall serve at the discretion of
the administrative official.
      (4)   Members of the Board of Tax Review appointed by the legislative
authority may be removed by the legislative authority as set forth in R.C. §
718.11(A)(4).
      (5)   A member of the board who, for any reason, ceases to meet the
qualifications for the position prescribed by this section shall resign
immediately by operation of law.
      (6)   A vacancy in an unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment within 60 days of when the vacancy was created. Any
member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the
term for which the member’s predecessor was appointed shall hold office for the
remainder of such term. No vacancy on the board shall impair the power and
authority of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the board.
      (7)   If a member is temporarily unable to serve on the board due to a
conflict of interest, illness, absence, or similar reason, the legislative
authority or top administrative official that appointed the member shall
appoint another individual to temporarily serve on the board in the member’s
place. This appointment shall be subject to the same requirements and
limitations as are applicable to the appointment of the member temporarily
unable to serve.
      (8)   No member of the Local Board of Tax Review shall receive
compensation, fee, or reimbursement of expenses for service on the board.
      (9)   A member of a Local Board of Tax Review shall not be appointed to
or serve on another such board simultaneously.
   (B)   Whenever a Tax Administrator issues an assessment, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the taxpayer in writing at the same time of the
taxpayer’s right to appeal the assessment, the manner in which the taxpayer may
appeal the assessment, and the address to which the appeal should be directed,
and to whom the appeal should be directed.
   (C)   Any person who has been issued an assessment may appeal the assessment
to the board by filing a request with the board. The request shall be in
writing, shall specify the reason or reasons why the assessment should be
deemed incorrect or unlawful, and shall be filed within 60 days after the
taxpayer receives the assessment.
   (D)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall schedule a hearing to be held
within 60 days after receiving an appeal of an assessment under division (C) of
this section, unless the taxpayer requests additional time to prepare or waives
a hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may appear
before the board and/or may be represented by an attorney at law, certified
public accountant, or other representative. The board may allow a hearing to be
continued as jointly agreed to by the parties. In such a case, the hearing must
be completed within 120 days after the first day of the hearing unless the
parties agree otherwise.
   (E)   The board may affirm, reverse, or modify the Tax Administrator’s
assessment or any part of that assessment. The board shall issue a final
determination on the appeal within 90 days after the board’s final hearing on
the appeal, and send a copy of its final determination by ordinary mail to all
of the parties to the appeal within 15 days after issuing the final
determination. The taxpayer or the Tax Administrator may appeal the board’s
final determination as provided in R.C. § 5717.011.
   (F)   The Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section shall
adopt rules governing its procedures, including a schedule of related costs,
and shall keep a record of its transactions. The rules governing the Local
Board of Tax Review procedures shall be in writing, and may be amended as
needed by the Local Board of Tax Review. Such records are not public records
available for inspection under R.C. §
149.43. For this reason, any documentation, copies of returns or reports, final
determinations, or working papers for each case must be maintained in a secure
location under the control of the Tax Administrator. No member of the Local
Board of Tax Review may remove such documentation, copies of returns or
reports, final determinations, or working papers from the hearing. Hearings
requested by a taxpayer before a Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to
this section are not meetings of a public body subject to R.C. § 121.22. For
this reason, such hearings shall not be open to the public, and only those
parties to the case may be present during the hearing.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.19 ACTIONS TO RECOVER; STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and
penalties and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within the
latter of:
            (i)   Three years after the tax was due or the return was filed,
whichever is later; or
            (ii)   One year after the conclusion of the qualifying deferral
period, if any.
         (b)   The time limit described in division (A)(1)(a) of this section
may be extended at any time if both the Tax Administrator and the employer,
agent of the employer, other payer, or taxpayer consent in writing to the
extension. Any extension shall also extend for the same period of time the time
limit described in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   As used in this section, QUALIFYING DEFERRAL PERIOD means a period
of time beginning and ending as follows:
         (a)   Beginning on the date a person who is aggrieved by an assessment
files with a Local Board of Tax Review the request described in §
182.18 of this chapter. That date shall not be affected by any subsequent
decision, finding, or holding by any administrative body or court that the
Local Board of Tax Review with which the aggrieved person filed the request did
not have jurisdiction to affirm, reverse, or modify the assessment or any part
of that assessment.
         (b)   Ending the later of the sixtieth day after the date on which the
final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review becomes final or, if any
party appeals from the determination of the Local Board of Tax Review, the
sixtieth day after the date on which the final determination of the Local Board
of Tax Review is either ultimately affirmed in whole or in part or ultimately
reversed and no further appeal of either that affirmation, in whole or in part,
or that reversal is available or taken.
   (B)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under a resolution or
ordinance imposing an income tax shall be commenced within three years after
the commission of the offense, provided that in the case of fraud, failure to
file a return, or the omission of 25% or more of income required to be
reported, prosecutions may be commenced within six years after the commission
of the offense.
   (C)   A claim for a refund of municipal income taxes shall be brought within
the time limitation provided in §
182.096 of this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   Notwithstanding the fact that an appeal is pending, the
petitioner may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the appeal. The acceptance of a payment by the Municipality does not prejudice
any claim for refund upon final determination of the appeal.
      (2)   If upon final determination of the appeal an error in the
assessment is corrected by the Tax Administrator, upon an appeal so filed or
pursuant to a final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review created
under §
182.18 of this chapter, of the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals, or any court to which
the decision of the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals has been appealed, so that the
amount due from the party
         assessed under the corrected assessment is less than the amount paid,
there shall be issued to the appellant or to the appellant’s assigns or legal
representative a refund in the amount of the overpayment as provided by §
182.096 of this chapter, with interest on that amount as provided by §
182.096(D) of this chapter.
   (E)   No civil action to recover municipal income tax or related penalties
or interest shall be brought during either of the following time periods:
      (1)   The period during which a taxpayer has a right to appeal the
imposition of that tax or interest or those penalties; or
      (2)   The period during which an appeal related to the imposition of that
tax or interest or those penalties is pending.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.20 ADOPTION OF RULES.
   Pursuant to R.C. § 718.30, the Municipality, pursuant to this chapter,
grants authority to the Tax Administrator, to adopt rules to administer the
income tax imposed by the Municipality. All rules adopted under this section
shall be published and posted on the internet.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.21 REPORT OF PROPERTY RENTALS AND LEASES REQUIRED.
   (A)    The owner or manager or any person in control who rents or leases to
other persons real estate for any purpose in the city must make a report at the
end of the first month of every quarter to the Tax Office as to the identity of
their tenants, lessees or other persons having any interest in such real estate
and to the best of their knowledge the address of same.
   (B)   Any condominium or landominium association is required to report at
the end of the first month of every quarter to the Tax Office as to the
identity of owners, tenants, lessees or other persons having any interest in
such real estate and the address of same to the extent that it has knowledge
thereof or has the reasonable means of so determining. The President of the
condominium or landominium association is responsible to provide this
information or, in his absence or failure to so provide, any other association
officer is responsible for providing the above stated report.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 2018-4, passed 1-8-2018)
§ 182.212 PENALTY FOR NOT REPORTING.
   Any owner, manager or person in control of real estate who fails to report
the name and address of each tenant, lessee or occupant as required in §
182.21 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.96 AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS.
   From time to time amendments and supplements to this chapter may be
recommended by the Local Board of Tax Review and/or the Tax Administrator for
consideration by the legislative authority.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.97 COLLECTION AFTER TERMINATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter shall continue in full force and effect insofar as the
levy of taxes is concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of
taxes levied hereunder and actions and proceedings for collecting any tax so
levied or enforcing any provisions of this chapter are concerned, it shall
continue in full force and effect until all of the taxes levied in the
aforesaid period are fully paid and any and all suits and prosecutions for the
collection of taxes or for the punishment of violations of this chapter have
been fully terminated, subject to the limitations contained in §
182.19.
   (B)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this chapter shall be due on the date provided in §
182.091 as though the same were continuing.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.98 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   If any sentence, clause, section or part of this chapter, or any tax imposed
against, or exemption from tax granted to, any taxpayer or forms of income
specified herein is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such
unconstitutionality, illegality, or invalidity shall affect only such clause,
sentence, section or part of this chapter so found and shall not affect or
impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or other
parts of this chapter. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the
legislative authority of the Municipality that this chapter would have been
adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence, clause, section
or part thereof not been included in this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 182.99 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, whoever violates §
182.15 of this chapter, §
182.14(A) of this chapter, or §
182.051 of this chapter by failing to remit municipal income taxes deducted and
withheld from an employee, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree
and shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a
term of up to six months, or both. In addition, the violation is punishable by
dismissal from office or discharge from employment, or both.
   (B)   Any person who discloses information received from the Internal
Revenue Service in violation of Internal Revenue Code § 7213(a), 7213A, or 7431
shall be guilty of a felony of the fifth degree and shall be subject to a fine
of not more than $5,000 plus the costs of prosecution, or imprisonment for a
term not exceeding five years, or both. In addition, the violation is
punishable by dismissal from office or discharge from employment, or both.
   (C)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of §
182.14(A) of this chapter constitutes a separate offense.
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which violation no
penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree
and shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months,
or both, for each offense. By way of an illustrative enumeration, violations of
this chapter shall include but not be limited to the following acts, conduct,
and/or omissions:
      (1)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this chapter; or
      (2)   Knowingly make any incomplete return; or
      (3)   Willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to pay the tax, penalties, and
interest, or any combination thereof, imposed by this chapter; or
      (4)   Cause to not be remitted the Municipality income tax withheld from
qualifying wages of employees to the Municipality as required by §
182.051; or
      (5)   Neglect or refuse to withhold or remit municipal income tax from
employees; or
      (6)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his or her books, records, papers, federal and state
income tax returns, or any documentation relating to the income or net profits
of a taxpayer; or
      (7)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce his or
her books, records, papers, federal and state income tax returns, or any
documentation relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer upon order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator; or
      (8)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to such person’s income or net profits, or in the case of a person
responsible for maintaining information relating to his or her employers’
income or net profits, such person’s employer’s income or net profits; or
      (9)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator; or
      (10)   To avoid imposition or collection of municipal income tax,
willfully give to an employer or prospective employer false information as to
his or her true name, correct Social Security number and residence address, or
willfully fail to promptly notify an employer or a prospective employer of any
change in residence address and date thereof; or
      (11)   Fail, as an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, to
maintain proper records of employees residence addresses, total qualifying
wages paid and municipal tax withheld, or to knowingly give the Tax
Administrator false information; or
      (12)   Willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to make any payment of
estimated municipal income tax for any taxable year or any part of any taxable
year in accordance with this chapter; or
      (13)   Attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the
whole or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this chapter.
      (14)   For purposes of this section, any violation that does not specify
a culpable mental state or intent, shall be one of strict liability and no
culpable mental state or intent shall be required for a person to be guilty of
that violation.
      (15)   For purposes of this section, the term PERSON shall, in addition
to the meaning prescribed in §
182.03, include in the case of a corporation, association, pass-through entity
or unincorporated business entity not having any resident owner or officer
within the city, any employee or agent of such corporation, association, pass-
through entity or unincorporated business entity who has control or supervision
over or is charged with the responsibility of filing the municipal income tax
returns and making the payments of the municipal income tax as required by this
chapter.
      (16)   For purposes of this section, the failure of any employer, agent
of the employer, other payer, taxpayer, or person to receive or procure a
return, declaration, or other required form shall not be and an excuse from
filing such information return, declaration, or other required form, or from
paying the tax.
(Ord. 2015-110, passed 11-9-2015)
CHAPTER 183: SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS
Section
183.01    Deputy Tax Commissioner
183.02   Report of property rentals and leases required
183.03   Tax technician
183.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Earned income tax, see
Ch. 181
§ 183.01 DEPUTY TAX COMMISSIONER.
   (a)   There is hereby created the position of Deputy Tax Commissioner for
the city, which position shall be subject to appointment by the City Manager.
   (b)   The specifications for the position of Deputy Tax Commissioner shall
be as follows:
      (1)   Minimum qualifications. A combination of experience and training
equivalent to that represented by completion of the twelfth grade and at least
two years of experience in keeping financial records and handling and
accounting for money.
      (2)   Examples of duties. Accepts and accounts for money; posts, checks
and balances tax account; prepares bank deposit slips; preparation of periodic
financial reports; maintains accurate filing system; operates office machines,
including typewriter and calculator.
      (3)   Specialized knowledge, abilities, skills and aptitudes. Knowledge
of the methods, practices and terminology pertinent to tax, statistical and
clerical work; working knowledge of journals; familiarity with common office
appliances; ability to perform routine clerical work; ability to post and make
arithmetical calculations rapidly and accurately; ability to understand and
follow both oral and written instructions; skill in operating typewriters,
adding machines and calculators; ability to write legibly; ability to handle
correspondence as required; ability to work well with others and deal
diplomatically with the public; aptitude and liking for the work involved.
(Ord. 17-1972, passed 4-10-1972)
§ 183.02 REPORT OF PROPERTY RENTALS AND LEASES REQUIRED.
   (a)   The owner or manager or any person in control who rents or leases to
other persons real estate for any purpose in the city must make a report within
30 days of the first day of any calendar month to the Tax Office as to the
identity of their tenants, lessees or other persons having any interest in real
estate and to the best of their knowledge the address of same.
(Ord. 25-1975, passed 6-9-1975)
   (b)   Any condominium or landominium association is required to report
within 30 days of the first day of any calendar month to the Tax Office as to
the identity of owners, tenants, lessees or other persons having any interest
in the real estate and the address of same to the extent that it has knowledge
thereof or has the reasonable means of so determining. The President of the
condominium or landominium association is responsible to provide this
information or, in his or her absence or failure to so provide, any other
association officer is responsible for providing the above stated report.
(Ord. 87-52, passed 5-11-1987)
§ 183.03 TAX TECHNICIAN.
   There is hereby created a position of Tax Technician within the Finance
Department.
(Ord. 2008-11, passed 1-28-2008)
§ 183.99 PENALTY.
   Any owner, manager or person in control of real estate who fails to report
the name and address of each tenant, lessee or occupant as required in §
183.02 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 119-1978, passed 10-9-1978)
CHAPTER 185: TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
Section
185.01    Definitions
185.02   Rate of tax
185.03   Exemptions
185.04   Tax to be separately stated and charged
185.05   Registration
185.06   Reporting and remitting
185.07   Penalties and interest
185.08   Failure to collect and report tax; determination of tax by Tax
Commissioner
185.09   Appeal
185.10   Records
185.11   Refunds
185.12   Actions to collect
185.13   Separability
185.14   Moneys credited to General Fund
185.99   Violations; misdemeanor
Statutory reference:
   Power to levy, see R.C. § 5739.02(C)
§ 185.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this
section govern the construction of this chapter.
   CITY. The City of Mason, Ohio.
   HOTEL. Every establishment kept, used, maintained, advertised or held out to
the public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered for a
consideration to guests, in which five or more rooms are used for the
accommodation of guests, whether the rooms are in one or several structures.
The term includes a motel if the establishment meets the definition of HOTEL,
as contained in this section.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of
any room or rooms or space or portion thereof, in any hotel for dwelling,
lodging or sleeping purposes. The use or possession or right to use or possess
any room or any suite of connecting rooms as office space, banquet or private
dining rooms, or exhibit, sample or display space shall not be considered
occupancy within the meaning of this definition unless the person exercising
occupancy uses or possesses, or has the right to use or possess all or any
portion of the room or suite of rooms for dwelling, lodging or sleeping
purposes.
   OPERATOR. The person who is proprietor of the hotel, whether in the capacity
of owner, lessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee or any other capacity.
Where the operator performs his or her functions through a managing agent of
any type or character other than an employee, the managing agent shall also be
deemed an operator for the purposes of this chapter and shall have the same
duties and liabilities as his or her principal. Compliance with the provisions
of this chapter by either the principal or the managing agent shall, however,
be considered to be compliance by both.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate,
trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate or any other group or
combination acting as a unit.
   RENT. The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and
property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which the
occupant is liable for the occupancy without any deduction therefrom
whatsoever.
   TAX COMMISSIONER. The Tax Commissioner of the city.
   TRANSIENT GUEST. Persons occupying a room or rooms for sleeping
accommodations for less than four consecutive weeks, at least four nights per
week.
(Ord. 36-1978, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 185.02 RATE OF TAX.
   (a)   Commencing on June 1, 1978, for the purpose of providing revenue for
the purposes of general municipal operations, maintenance, new equipment,
extension and enlargement of municipal services and facilities, and capital
improvements by the city, there is hereby levied a tax of 3% on all rents
received by a hotel for lodging furnished to transient guests, the tax to be
known as the transient guest tax.
   (b)   The tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient guest to the city
which is satisfied only by payment to the operator as trustee for the city, or
to the city. The transient guest shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel
at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a
proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid
tax shall be due upon the transient guest’s ceasing to occupy space in the
hotel. If for any reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of the hotel,
the Tax Commissioner may require that the tax shall be paid directly to the Tax
Commissioner.
(Ord. 36-1978, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 185.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   No tax shall be imposed under this chapter:
      (1)   Upon rents not within the taxing power of the city under the
Constitution or laws of the state or the United States;
      (2)   Upon rents paid by the state or any of its political subdivisions;
or
      (3)   Upon rents of $2 a day or less.
   (b)   No exemption claimed under division (a)(1) or (a)(2) hereof shall be
granted except upon a claim therefor made at the time rent is collected and
under penalty of perjury upon a form prescribed by the Tax Commissioner. All
claims of exemption under division (a)(3) hereof shall be made in the manner
prescribed by the Tax Commissioner.
(Ord. 36-1978, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 185.04 TAX TO BE SEPARATELY STATED AND CHARGED.
   (a)   The tax to be collected shall be stated and charged separately from
the rent and shown separately on any record thereof, at the time when the
occupancy is arranged or contracted and charged for, and upon every evidence of
occupancy or any bill or statement or charge made for the occupancy issued or
delivered by the operator, and the tax shall be paid by the occupant to the
operator as trustee for and on account of the city, and the operator shall be
liable for the collection thereof and for the tax.
   (b)   No operator of a hotel shall advertise or state in any manner whether
directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will be assumed or
absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be added to the rent, or that, if
added, any part will be refunded except in the manner hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 36-1978, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 185.05 REGISTRATION.
   Within 30 days after the effective date of this section, or within 30 days
after commencing business whichever is later, each operator of any hotel
renting lodging to transient guests shall register the hotel with the Tax
Commissioner and obtain from him or her a transient occupancy registration
certificate to be at all times posted in a conspicuous place on the premises.
The certificate shall, among other things, state the following:
   (a)   The name of the operator;
   (b)   The address and business telephone number of the hotel;
   (c)   The date upon which the certificate was issued; and
   (d)   “This transient occupancy registration certificate signifies that the
person named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the transient
occupancy tax ordinance by registering with the Tax Commissioner for the
purpose of collecting from transient guests the transient occupancy tax and
remitting the tax to the Tax Commissioner. This certificate does not constitute
a permit.”
(Ord. 36-1978, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 185.06 REPORTING AND REMITTING.
   (a)   Each operator shall, on or before the 15th day of the month following
the close of each calendar month, or at the close of any shorter reporting
period which may be established by the Tax Commissioner, make a return to the
Tax Commissioner, on forms obtainable from him or her, of the total rents
charged and received and the amount of tax collected for transient occupancies.
All claims for exemption from tax filed by occupants with the operator during
the reporting period shall be filed with the report. At the time the return is
filed, the full amount of the tax collected shall be remitted to the Tax
Commissioner. The Tax Commissioner may establish shorter reporting periods for
any certificate holder if he or she deems it necessary in order to ensure
collection of the tax and he or she may require further information in the
return if the information is pertinent to the collection of the tax. Returns
and payments are due immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. All
taxes collected by operators pursuant to this chapter shall be held in trust
for the account of the city until payment thereof is made to the Tax
Commissioner. All returns and payments submitted by each operator shall be
treated as confidential by the Tax Commissioner and shall not be released by
him or her except upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction or to an
officer or agent of the United States, the state, the county or the city for
official use only. The nonavailability or failure to obtain forms shall not
relieve an operator from timely paying the tax.
   (b)   No person, including any officer of a corporation or employee of a
corporation having control or supervision of or charged with the responsibility
of filing returns, shall fail to file any return or report required to be filed
by this chapter, or file or cause to be filed any incomplete, false or
fraudulent return, report or statement, or aid or abet another in the filing of
any false or fraudulent return, report or statement.
   (c)   If any operator required to file monthly returns under this chapter
fails, on two consecutive months within a 12-month period, to file the returns
when due or to pay the tax thereon, or if any operator authorized by the Tax
Commissioner to file returns at less frequent intervals, fails on two or more
occasions within a 24-month period, to file returns when due or to pay the tax
due thereon, the Tax Commissioner may require the operator to furnish security
in an amount equal to the average tax liability of the operator for a period of
one year, as determined by the Tax Commissioner from a review of returns or
other information pertaining to the operator, which amount shall in no event be
less than $100. The security may be in the form of an advance tax payment to be
applied to pay the tax due on subsequent returns, or a corporate surety bond,
satisfactory to the Tax Commissioner, conditioned upon payment of the tax due
with the returns from the operator. The security must be filed within ten days
following the operator’s receipt of the notice from the Tax Commissioner of its
requirements. A corporate surety bond filed under this section shall be
returned to the operator if, for a period of 12 consecutive months following
the date the bond was filed, the operator has filed all returns and remitted
payment therewith within the time prescribed in this chapter.
   (d)   If any operator required to file returns and to remit tax due to the
city under the provisions of this chapter, fails for any reason to make the
filing or payment, any of its officers or employees having control or
supervision of or charged with the responsibility of filing returns and making
payments, shall be personally liable for the failure. The dissolution of a
corporation shall not discharge an officer’s or employee’s liability for a
prior failure of the corporation to file returns or remit tax due. The sum due
for the liability may be collected by assessment in the manner provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. 36-1978, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 185.07 PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   (a)   Original delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed
by this chapter within the time required shall pay a penalty equal to 10% of
the amount of the tax, in addition to the tax.
   (b)   Continued delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any delinquent
remittance on or before a period of 30 days following the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent shall pay a second delinquency penalty equal
to 10% of the amount of the tax and previous penalty in addition to the tax and
the 10% penalty first imposed. An additional penalty equal to 10% of the total
tax and penalty of the previous 30-day period shall be added for each
successive 30-day period that the account remains delinquent.
   (c)   Fraud. If the Tax Commissioner determines that the nonpayment of any
remittance due under this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty equal to 25% of
the amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties
stated in divisions (a) and (b) hereof.
   (d)   Interest. In addition to the penalties imposed, any operator who fails
to remit any tax imposed by this chapter shall pay interest at the rate of 1%
per month, or fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of
penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent until
paid.
   (e)   Penalties during pendency of hearing or appeal. No penalty provided
under the terms of this chapter shall be imposed during the pendency of any
hearing provided for in §
185.08 nor during the pendency of any appeal to the Tax Commissioner provided
for in §
185.09.
(Ord. 36-1978, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 185.08 FAILURE TO COLLECT AND REPORT TAX; DETERMINATION OF TAX BY TAX
COMMISSIONER.
   If any operator shall fail or refuse to collect the tax and to make, within
the time provided in this chapter, any report and remittance of the tax or any
portion thereof required by this chapter, the Tax Commissioner shall proceed in
a manner as he or she may deem best to obtain facts and information on which to
base his or her estimate of the tax due. As soon as the Tax Commissioner
procures the facts and information as he or she is able to obtain upon which to
base the assessment of any tax imposed by this chapter and payable by any
operator who has failed or refused to collect the same and to make the report
and remittance, he or she shall proceed to determine and assess against the
operator the tax, interest and penalties provided for by this chapter. In case
the determination is made, the Tax Commissioner shall give a notice of the
amount so assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it in the United
States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the operator so assessed at his or
her last known place of address. The operator may within ten days after the
serving or mailing of the notice make application in writing to the Tax
Commissioner for a hearing on the amount assessed. If application by the
operator for a hearing is not made within the time prescribed, the tax,
interest and penalties, if any, determined by the Tax Commissioner shall become
final and conclusive and immediately due and payable. If the application is
made, the Tax Commissioner shall give not less than five days written notice in
the manner prescribed herein to the operator to show cause at a time and place
fixed in the notice why the amount specified therein should not be fixed for
the tax, interest and penalties. At the hearing, the operator may appear and
offer evidence why the specified tax, interest and penalties should not be so
fixed. After the hearing, the Tax Commissioner shall determine the proper tax
to be remitted and shall thereafter give written notice to the person in the
manner prescribed herein of the determination and the amount of the tax,
interest and penalty. The amount determined to be due shall be payable after 30
days unless an appeal is taken as provided in §
185.09. The Tax Commissioner shall have the power to compromise any liability
imposed by this chapter.
(Ord. 36-1978, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 185.09 APPEAL.
   Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the Tax Commissioner with respect
to the amount of the tax, interest and penalties, if any, may appeal to the
Board of Review as created and constituted under §
181.13 by filing a notice of appeal with the Board within 30 days of the
serving or mailing of the determination of tax due. The Board shall fix a time
and place for hearing the appeal, and shall give notice in writing to the
operator at his or her last known place of address. The findings of the Board
shall be final and conclusive and shall be served upon the appellant in the
manner prescribed above for service of notice of hearing. Any amount found to
be due shall be immediately due and payable upon the service of notice.
(Ord. 36-1978, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 185.10 RECORDS.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and
payment to the city of any tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve,
all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of the tax as he or she
may have been liable for the collection of and payment to the city. If the
operator furnishes lodging not subject to the tax, the operator’s records shall
show the identity of the transient guest, if the sale was exempted by reason of
the identity, or the nature of the transaction if exempted for any other
reason.
   (b)   All records and other documents shall be open during business hours to
the inspection of the Tax Commissioner and shall be preserved for a period of
four years, unless the Tax Commissioner in writing, consents to their
destruction within that period, or by order requires that they be kept longer.
(Ord. 36-1978, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 185.11 REFUNDS.
   (a)   Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid
or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the city under this chapter, it may be refunded as provided in
divisions (b) and (c) hereof provided a claim in writing therefor, stating
under penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon which the claim is founded,
is filed with the Tax Commissioner within three years of the date of payment.
The claim shall be on forms furnished by the Tax Commissioner.
   (b)   An operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes
collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously
or illegally collected, or received when it is established in a manner
prescribed by the Tax Commissioner that the person from whom the tax has been
collected was not a transient guest; provided, however, that neither a refund
nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has
either been refunded to the transient guest or credited to rent subsequently
payable by the transient to the operator.
   (c)   A transient guest may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid more
than once or erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city by
filing of a claim in the manner provided in division (a) hereof, but only when
the tax was paid by the transient guest directly to the Tax Commissioner, or
when the transient guest having paid the tax to the operator, establishes to
the satisfaction of the Tax Commissioner that the transient guest has been
unable to obtain a refund from the operator who collected the tax.
   (d)   No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless
the claimant establishes his or her right thereto by written records showing
entitlement thereto and the refund exceeds $1.
(Ord. 36-1978, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 185.12 ACTIONS TO COLLECT.
   Any tax required to be paid by a transient guest under the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the transient guest to the city.
Any tax collected by an operator which has not been paid to the city shall be
deemed a debt owed by the operator to the city. Any person owing money to the
city under the provisions of this chapter shall be liable to an action brought
in the name of the city for the recovery of the amount.
(Ord. 36-1978, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 185.13 SEPARABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase of this chapter or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional, the decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this chapter or any part thereof. Council hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence,
clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases
be declared unconstitutional.
(Ord. 36-1978, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 185.14 MONEYS CREDITED TO GENERAL FUND.
   The moneys received under the provisions of this chapter shall be credited
to the General Fund of the city.
(Ord. 36-1978, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 185.99 VIOLATIONS; MISDEMEANOR.
   (a)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for
not more than six months, or both for each offense.
   (b)   Any operator or other person who fails or refuses to register as
required herein, or to furnish any return required to be made, or who fails or
refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the Tax
Commissioner, or who renders a false or fraudulent return or claim, is guilty
of a misdemeanor, and is punishable as aforesaid for each offense.
   (c)   Any person required to make, render, sign or verify any report or
claim who makes a false or fraudulent report or claim with intent to defeat or
evade the determination of any amount due required by this chapter to be made,
is guilty of a misdemeanor and is punishable as aforesaid for each offense.
(Ord. 36-1978, passed 5-8-1978)
CHAPTER 187: RECREATIONAL FACILITIES TAX
Section
187.01   Purpose
187.02   Tax established
187.03   Use of tax
187.04   Deposit of taxes
187.05   Recreation funds
187.06   Prohibition
187.07   Effective period
187.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Power to levy, see R.C. § 5739.02(C)
§ 187.01 PURPOSE.
   Recognizing the continual need for recreational facilities within the city
and conforming this need to the growth of population and increase in the number
of residential units within the city, it shall be the purpose of this chapter
to provide, together with moneys derived from other municipal funds, for the
orderly acquisition, development, maintenance and operation of publicly owned
recreation sites and facilities, including, but not limited to, park sites,
area recreational facilities and community recreation centers within the city
by creating a tax to be charged on all newly constructed residential units.
(Ord. 65-1984, passed 8-13-1984)
§ 187.02 TAX ESTABLISHED.
   From and after the effective date of this section there is hereby created a
tax to be paid concurrently with the obtaining of a building permit. The tax
shall be as established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title
Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the tax shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 93-42, passed 4-25-1993)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 187.03 USE OF TAX.
   All such taxes shall be used for the acquisition, development, construction,
capital improvement, maintenance and operation of publicly owned recreation
sites and facilities including, but not limited to, park sites, playgrounds,
area recreational facilities and community recreation centers within the city.
(Ord. 65-1984, passed 8-13-1984)
§ 187.04 DEPOSIT OF TAXES.
   All tax money collected under this chapter shall be placed in a separate
fund to be entitled Recreation Tax Fund.
(Ord. 65-1984, passed 8-13-1984)
§ 187.05 RECREATION FUNDS.
   During the period of time that the tax levied by this chapter is collected,
Council shall appropriate annually from other municipal tax sources a sum not
less than equal to the tax moneys derived from this chapter for recreational
purposes which may include funds required to be appropriated for recreational
capital improvements. The funds so appropriated shall be placed in the
Recreation Tax Fund and shall be irrevocable and used for no purpose other than
those established by this chapter. Any funds appropriated but not expended in
any tax year shall be carried over into the next ensuing tax year and shall not
diminish or relieve the appropriations required to be made under this section
for any ensuing tax year. The Auditor and Treasurer of the city, are directed
to create a Recreation Tax Fund and are further directed during each year that
the recreation tax herein is collected, prior to returning any unencumbered
recreation funds appropriated by Council to the General Fund at the close of
the year, to transfer to the Recreation Tax Fund from General Fund moneys
appropriated by Council a sum of money equal to the amount of money collected
from the recreation tax after first deducting any other recreation expenditures
made from General Fund money, it being the intention of Council that, during
each year the recreation tax is in force, an amount equal to the moneys
received from the Recreation Tax shall be irrevocably committed to recreation
purposes from General Fund moneys of the city.
(Ord. 65-1984, passed 8-13-1984)
§ 187.06 PROHIBITION.
   (a)   No building permit for the construction of a residence shall be issued
unless and until the tax provided for in this chapter is paid.
   (b)   No person, firm or corporation shall receive or be entitled to receive
the building permit for the construction of a residence structure in the city
unless and until the tax provided for in this chapter is paid on each building
permit issued.
   (c)   Nothing contained in this section shall relieve or be interpreted as
relieving any person, firm or corporation from complying with all other
ordinances, laws, rules, regulations of the city or of any other governmental
agency where they are now in force or hereafter enacted regulating and
governing the issuance of building permits in the city. A penalty is provided
in §
187.99.
(Ord. 65-1984, passed 8-13-1984)
§ 187.07 EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be levied, collected and paid
concurrently with all building permit applications for residential property
made on and after the effective date of this section.
(Ord. 65-1984, passed 8-13-1984)
§ 187.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provision of §
187.06 hereof, shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30
days, or both.
(Ord. 65-1984, passed 8-13-1984)
CHAPTER 189: MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE TAX
Section
189.01   Levy of annual tax on motor vehicles
189.02   Duration of tax
189.03   Payment of tax
189.04   Reductions and exemptions
189.05   Disposition of proceeds of tax
189.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Power to levy, see R.C. § 5739.02(C)
§ 189.01 LEVY OF ANNUAL TAX ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (a)   There is hereby levied an annual license tax upon the operation of
motor vehicles on the public roads or highways pursuant to the authority of
R.C. § 4504.171 for the purpose of paying the costs and expenses of enforcing
and administering the tax provided for in this section; and to provide
additional revenue for the purposes set forth in R.C. § 4504.04, R.C. §
4504.06, R.C. § 4504.17 or R.C. § 4504.172; and for planning, constructing,
improving, maintaining and repairing public roads, highways and streets;
maintaining and repairing bridges and viaducts; paying the city’s portion of
the costs and expenses of cooperating with the department of highways in the
planning, improvement and construction of state highways; paying the city’s
portion of the compensation, damages, cost and expenses of planning,
constructing, reconstructing, improving, maintaining and repairing roads and
streets; paying any costs apportioned to the city under R.C. § 4907.47; paying
debt service charges on notes or bonds of the city issued for the purposes;
purchasing, erecting and maintaining street and traffic signs and markers;
purchasing, erecting and maintaining traffic lights and signals; and to
supplement revenue already available for the purposes.
   (b)   The tax shall be at the rate of $5 per motor vehicle on each and every
motor vehicle in the district of registration of which, as defined in R.C. §
4503.10, is in the city, and shall be in addition to other taxes at other rates
specified herein, or in the Ohio Revised Code.
   (c)   As used in this chapter, the term MOTOR VEHICLE means any and all
vehicles included within the definition of motor vehicle in R.C. §§ 4501.01 and
4505.01.
(Ord. 2005-29, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 189.02 DURATION OF TAX.
   The tax imposed by §
189.01 of this chapter shall apply to and be in effect for the registration
year commencing January 1, 2006, and shall continue in effect and application
during each registration year thereafter.
(Ord. 2005-29, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 189.03 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   The tax imposed by §
189.01 of this chapter shall be paid to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles of the
State or to a Deputy Registrar at the time application for registration of a
motor vehicle is made as provided in R.C. § 4503.10.
(Ord. 2005-29, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 189.04 REDUCTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   The tax imposed by §
189.01 of this chapter shall be subject to the provisions of R.C. §§ 4503.101,
4503.16, 4503.17 and 4503.171.
(Ord. 2005-29, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 189.05 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF TAX.
   All moneys derived from the tax hereinbefore levied shall be used by the
city only for the purposes described in §
189.01 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-29, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 189.99 PENALTY.
   See §
101.99 for general code penalty where no specific penalty is provided.
(Ord. 2005-29, passed 3-14-2005)
***** TITLE ELEVEN: FEE SCHEDULE *****
CHAPTER 205: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
205.01   Fee schedule
§ 205.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The following schedule is a list of fees and charges for various services,
licenses and permits for the city. Effective January 1, 2024, unless otherwise
authorized through separate legislation by City Council, the fees listed below
are subject to annual COLA increases. Annual COLA increases are determined by
the Finance Committee as part of the budget process.
(Ord. 2023-112, passed 12-11-2023)
Note: This Fee Schedule is available in PDF. To view the Fee Schedule, you must
have Adobe Reader. Please click HERE to access the schedule.
PART THREE: TRAFFIC CODE
      TITLE ONE - Administration
         Chap.
301. Definitions
         Chap.
303. Enforcement, Impounding and Penalty
         Chap.
305. Traffic Control
      TITLE THREE - Streets and Traffic-Control Devices
         Chap.
311. Street Obstructions and Special Uses
         Chap.
313. Traffic-Control Devices
      TITLE FIVE - Vehicles
         Chap.
331. Operation Generally
         Chap.
333. O.V.I.; Willful Misconduct; Speed
         Chap.
335. Licensing; Accidents
         Chap.
337. Safety and Equipment
         Chap.
339. Commercial and Heavy Vehicles
         Chap.
341. Commercial Drivers
      TITLE SEVEN - Parking
         Chap.
351. Parking Generally
      TITLE NINE - Pedestrians, Bicycles and Motorcycles
         Chap.
371. Pedestrians
         Chap.
373. Bicycles, Motorcycles and Skateboards
         Chap.
375. Snowmobiles, Off-Highway Motorcycles and All-Purpose Vehicles
***** TITLE ONE: ADMINISTRATION *****
CHAPTER 301: DEFINITIONS
Section
301.01   Meaning of words and phrases
301.02   Agricultural tractor; multi-wheel agricultural tractor
301.03   Alley
301.031   Arterial street
301.032   Beacon
301.04   Bicycle; motorized bicycle or moped
301.05   Bus
301.06   Business district
301.061   Chauffeured limousine
301.062   Child care center or type A family child care home
301.07   Commercial tractor
301.08   Controlled-access highway
301.09   Crosswalk
301.10   Driver or operator
301.105   Electric bicycle
301.11   Emergency vehicle
301.12   Explosives
301.13   Expressway
301.14   Flammable liquid
301.15   Freeway
301.155   Funeral escort vehicle
301.16   Gross weight
301.161   Highway maintenance vehicle
301.163   Highway traffic signal
301.165   Hybrid beacon
301.17   Intersection
301.18   Laned highway
301.181   Local authorities
301.182   Low-speed micromobility device
301.183   Median
301.19   Motorcycle
301.20   Motor vehicle
301.201   Operate
301.21   Parking or parked
301.22   Pedestrian
301.23   Person
301.24   Pole trailer
301.25   Police officer
301.251   Predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense
301.252   Private road open to public travel
301.26   Private road or driveway
301.27   Public safety vehicle
301.28   Railroad
301.29   Railroad sign or signal
301.30   Railroad train
301.31   Residence district
301.311   Ridesharing arrangement
301.32   Right-of-way
301.321   Road service vehicle
301.33   Roadway
301.331   Rural mail delivery vehicle
301.34   Safety zone
301.35   School bus
301.36   Semitrailer
301.361   Shared-use path
301.37   Sidewalk
301.371   State highway
301.38   State route
301.39   Stop (when required)
301.40   Stopping or standing
301.41   Stop intersection
301.42   Street or highway
301.43   Through street or highway
301.44   Thruway
301.45   Traffic
301.46   Traffic-control device
301.47   Traffic-control signal
301.48   Trailer
301.49   Truck
301.50   Urban district
301.51   Vehicle
301.52   Wheelchair, motorized
301.53   Waste collection vehicle
Cross-reference:
   Blind person defined, see §
371.02
   Funeral procession defined, see §
331.24
   School zones defined, see §
333.03(b)
   Snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle and all-purpose vehicle defined, see §
375.01
   Street racing defined, see §
333.07
   Studded tire defined, see §
339.11
§ 301.01 MEANING OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided, the definitions set forth in R.C. §
4501.01 shall apply to this Traffic Code and the penal laws of the
municipality.
   (b)    Except as otherwise provided, the following words and phrases, when
used in this Traffic Code, shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them in this chapter.
§ 301.02 AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR; MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR.
   (a)   AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. Every self-propelled vehicle designed or used
for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, but having no provision for
carrying loads independently of such other vehicles, and used principally for
agricultural purposes.
(R.C. § 4511.01(J))
   (b)   MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. A type of agricultural tractor that
has two or more wheels or tires on each side of one axle at the rear of the
tractor, is designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery,
has no provision for carrying loads independently of the drawn vehicles or
machinery, and is used principally for agricultural purposes.
(R.C. § 4511.01(GGG))
§ 301.03 ALLEY.
   A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots
or buildings in urban districts, and not intended for the purpose of through
vehicular traffic, and any street or highway that has been declared an alley by
Council.
(R.C. § 4511.01(XX))
§ 301.031 ARTERIAL STREET.
   Any United States or state numbered route, controlled-access highway, or
other major radial or circumferential street or highway designated by local
authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part of a major arterial
system of streets or highways.
(R.C. § 4511.01(CCC))
§ 301.032 BEACON.
   A highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections that operate in a
flashing mode.
(R.C. § 4511.01(KKK))
§ 301.04 BICYCLE; MOTORIZED BICYCLE OR MOPED.
   (a)   BICYCLE. Every device, other than a device that is designed solely for
use as a play vehicle by a child, that is propelled solely by human power upon
which a person may ride, and that has two or more wheels, any of which is more
than 14 inches in diameter.
(R.C. § 4511.01(G))
   (b)   MOTORIZED BICYCLE OR MOPED. Any vehicle having either two tandem
wheels or one wheel in the front and two wheels in the rear, that may be
capable of being pedaled and that is equipped with a helper motor of not more
than 50 cubic centimeters piston displacement that produces not more than one
brake horsepower and is capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of not
greater than 20 miles per hour on a level surface. The terms do not include an
electric bicycle.
(R.C. § 4511.01(H))
§ 301.05 BUS.
   Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine passengers, and
used for the transportation of persons other than in a ridesharing arrangement,
and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire or funeral car, other than a
taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement, designed and used
for the transportation of persons for compensation.
(R.C. § 4511.01(L))
§ 301.06 BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   The territory fronting upon a street or highway, including the street or
highway, between successive intersections within the municipality, where 50% or
more of the frontage between successive intersections is occupied by buildings
in use for business, or within or outside the municipality where 50% or more of
the frontage for a distance of 300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in use
for business, and the character of the territory is indicated by official
traffic-control devices.
(R.C. § 4511.01(NN))
§ 301.061 CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE.
   A motor vehicle that is designed to carry nine or fewer passengers and is
operated for hire pursuant to a prearranged contract for the transportation of
passengers on public roads and highways along a route under the control of the
person hiring the vehicle and not over a defined and regular route. PREARRANGED
CONTRACT means an agreement, made in advance of boarding, to provide
transportation from a specific location in a chauffeured limousine. Chauffeured
limousine does not include any vehicle that is used exclusively in the business
of funeral directing.
(R.C. § 4501.01(LL))
§ 301.062 CHILD CARE CENTER OR TYPE A FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME.
   These terms shall have the same meanings as set forth in R.C. § 5104.01.
(R.C. § 4511.01(FFF))
§ 301.07 COMMERCIAL TRACTOR.
   Every motor vehicle having motive power designed or used for drawing other
vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon, or designed or
used for drawing other vehicles while carrying a portion of the other vehicles,
or the load thereon, or both.
(R.C. § 4511.01(I))
§ 301.08 CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   Every street or highway in respect to which owners or occupants of abutting
lands and other persons have no legal right or access to or from the same
except at certain points only and in a manner as may be determined by the
public authority having jurisdiction over the street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.01(CC))
§ 301.09 CROSSWALK.
   (a)   That part of a roadway at intersections ordinarily included within the
real or projected prolongation of property lines and curb lines or, in the
absence of curbs, the edges of the traversable roadway;
   (b)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere, distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface;
and
   (c)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, there
shall not be a crosswalk where the legislative authority has placed signs
indicating no crossing.
(R.C. § 4511.01(LL))
§ 301.10 DRIVER OR OPERATOR.
   Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(R.C. § 4511.01(Y))
§ 301.105 ELECTRIC BICYCLE.
   A “class 1 electric bicycle”, a “class 2 electric bicycle”, or a “class 3
electric bicycle” as defined below.
   (a)   CLASS 1 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A bicycle that is equipped with fully
operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that provides
assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide assistance
when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4511.01(SSS))
   (b)   CLASS 2 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A bicycle that is equipped with fully
operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that may provide
assistance regardless of whether the rider is pedaling and is not capable of
providing assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4511.01(TTT))
   (c)   CLASS 3 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A bicycle that is equipped with fully
operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that provides
assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide assistance
when the bicycle reaches the speed of 28 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4511.01(UUU))
§ 301.11 EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   Emergency vehicles of municipal, township or county departments or public
utility corporations, when identified as such as required by law, the Director
of Public Safety or local authorities, and motor vehicles when commandeered by
a police officer.
(R.C. § 4511.01(D))
§ 301.12 EXPLOSIVES.
   Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is intended for the purpose
of producing an explosion that contains any oxidizing and combustible units or
other ingredients in such proportions, quantities or packing that an ignition
by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion or by a detonator of any
part of the compound or mixture may cause a sudden generation of highly heated
gases, such that the resultant gaseous pressures are capable of producing
destructive effects on contiguous objects, or of destroying life or limb.
Manufactured articles shall not be held to be explosives when the individual
units contain explosives in limited quantities of a nature or in the packing
that it is impossible to procure a simultaneous or a destructive explosion of
the units, to the injury of life, limb or property by fire, friction,
concussion, percussion or by a detonator, such as fixed ammunition for small
arms, firecrackers or safety fuse matches.
(R.C. § 4511.01(T))
§ 301.13 EXPRESSWAY.
   A divided arterial highway for through traffic with full or partial control
of access with an excess of 50% of all crossroads separated in grade.
(R.C. § 4511.01(ZZ))
§ 301.14 FLAMMABLE LIQUID.
   Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as determined by a
tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
(R.C. § 4511.01(U))
§ 301.15 FREEWAY.
   A divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with crossroads separated
in grade and with full control of access.
(R.C. § 4511.01(YY))
§ 301.155 FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE.
   Any motor vehicle, including a funeral hearse, while used to facilitate the
movement of a funeral procession.
(R.C. § 4511.01(WW))
§ 301.16 GROSS WEIGHT.
   The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.01(V))
§ 301.161 HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE.
   A vehicle used in snow and ice removal or road surface maintenance,
including a snow plow, traffic line striper, road sweeper, mowing machine,
asphalt distributing vehicle, or other such vehicle designed for use in
specific highway maintenance activities.
(R.C. § 4511.01(QQQ))
§ 301.163 HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIGNAL.
   A power-operated traffic control device by which traffic is warned or
directed to take some specific action. The term does not include a power-
operated sign, steadily illuminated pavement marker, warning light, or steady
burning electric lamp.
(R.C. § 4511.01(MMM))
§ 301.165 HYBRID BEACON.
   A type of beacon that is intentionally placed in a dark mode between periods
of operation where no indications are displayed and, when in operation,
displays both steady and flashing traffic control signal indications.
(R.C. § 4511.01(LLL))
§ 301.17 INTERSECTION.
   (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the lateral
curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two
highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or the
area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at any
other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley or driveway with
a roadway or highway does not constitute an intersection unless the roadway or
highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic control device.
   (b)   If a highway includes two roadways that are 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway constitutes a separate intersection. If both intersecting highways
include two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of any two
roadways of such highways constitutes a separate intersection.
   (c)   At a location controlled by a traffic control signal, regardless of
the distance between the separate intersections as described in division (b) of
this definition:
      (1)   If a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk has not been designated on
the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway and median constitute one intersection.
      (2)   Where a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk line is designated on
the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and any
area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
intersection.
      (3)   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure from
the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the far
side of the crosswalk.
(R.C. § 4511.01(KK))
§ 301.18 LANED HIGHWAY.
   A highway the roadway of which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
(R.C. § 4511.01(GG))
§ 301.181 LOCAL AUTHORITIES.
   Every county, municipal and other local board or body having authority to
adopt police regulations under the Constitution and laws of this state.
(R.C. § 4511.01(AA))
§ 301.182 LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICE.
   A device weighing less than 100 pounds that has handlebars, is propelled by
an electric motor or human power, and has an attainable speed on a paved level
surface of not more than 20 miles per hour when propelled by the electric
motor.
(R.C. § 4511.01(WWW))
§ 301.183 MEDIAN.
   The area between two roadways of a divided highway, measured from edge of
traveled way to edge of traveled way, but excluding turn lanes. The width of a
median may be different between intersections, between interchanges, and at
opposite approaches of the same intersection.
(R.C. § 4511.01(NNN))
§ 301.19 MOTORCYCLE.
   Every motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or saddle for the
use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in
contact with the ground, including but not limited to motor vehicles known as
motor-driven cycle, motor scooter, autocycle, cab-enclosed motorcycle, or
motorcycle without regard to weight or brake horsepower.
(R.C. § 4511.01(C))
§ 301.20 MOTOR VEHICLE.
   Every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular power or power
collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except motorized bicycles,
electric bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power shovels, power cranes
and other equipment used in construction work, and not designed for or employed
in general highway transportation, hole-digging machinery, well-drilling
machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery, and trailers designed and
used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina,
or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a
distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
(R.C. § 4511.01(B))
§ 301.201 OPERATE.
   To cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
(R.C. § 4511.01(HHH))
§ 301.21 PARKING OR PARKED.
   The standing of a vehicle upon a street, road, alley, highway or public
ground, whether accompanied or unaccompanied by a driver, but does not include
the temporary standing of a vehicle for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or loading merchandise or passengers.
§ 301.22 PEDESTRIAN.
   Any natural person afoot. The term includes a personal delivery device as
defined in R.C. § 4511.513 unless the context clearly suggests otherwise.
(R.C. § 4511.01(X))
§ 301.23 PERSON.
   Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
(R.C. § 4511.01(W))
§ 301.24 POLE TRAILER.
   Every trailer or semitrailer attached to the towing vehicle by means of a
reach, pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle, and
ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular shaped loads such as poles,
pipes or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining themselves as
beams between the supporting connections.
(R.C. § 4511.01(O))
§ 301.25 POLICE OFFICER.
   Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or to make arrests
for violations of traffic regulations.
(R.C. § 4511.01(Z))
§ 301.251 PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE.
   Any of the following:
   (a)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.03, § 4511.051, § 4511.12, § 4511.132, §
4511.16, § 4511.20, § 4511.201, § 4511.21, § 4511.211, § 4511.213, § 4511.22, §
4511.23, § 4511.25, § 4511.26, § 4511.27, § 4511.28, § 4511.29, § 4511.30, §
4511.31, § 4511.32, § 4511.33, § 4511.34, § 4511.35, § 4511.36, § 4511.37, §
4511.38, § 4511.39, § 4511.40, § 4511.41, § 4511.42, § 4511.43, § 4511.431, §
4511.432, § 4511.44, § 4511.441, § 4511.451, § 4511.452, § 4511.46, § 4511.47,
§ 4511.48, § 4511.481, § 4511.49, § 4511.50, § 4511.511, § 4511.53, § 4511.54,
§ 4511.55, § 4511.56, § 4511.57, § 4511.58, § 4511.59, § 4511.60, § 4511.61, §
4511.64, § 4511.66, § 4511.661, § 4511.68, § 4511.70, § 4511.701, § 4511.71, §
4511.711, § 4511.712, § 4511.713, § 4511.72, § 4511.73, § 4511.763, § 4511.771,
§ 4511.78 or § 4511.84;
   (b)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.17(A)(2), § 4511.51(A) through (D) or §
4511.74(A);
   (c)   A violation of any provision of R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.76 for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains the
provision violated; and
   (d)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.214;
   (e)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent
to any section or provision set forth or described in division (a), (b), (c),
or (d) of this definition.
(R.C. § 4511.01(III))
§ 301.252 PRIVATE ROAD OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL.
   A private toll road or road, including any adjacent sidewalks that generally
run parallel to the road, within a shopping center, airport, sports arena, or
other similar business or recreation facility that is privately owned but where
the public is allowed to travel without access restrictions. The term includes
a gated toll road but does not include a road within a private gated property
where access is restricted at all times, a parking area, a driving aisle within
a parking area, or a private grade crossing.
(R.C. § 4511.01(OOO))
§ 301.26 PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   Every way or place in private ownership used for vehicular travel by the
owner, and those having express or implied permission from the owner, but not
by other persons.
(R.C. § 4511.01(DD))
§ 301.27 PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   Any of the following:
   (a)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to a
municipality, township or county, and private ambulances and nontransport
vehicles bearing license plates issued under R.C. § 4503.49;
   (b)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state;
   (c)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the Director
of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to provide
emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and when operated by a
duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
volunteer fire department, and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The State Fire Marshal shall be designated by the
Director of Public Safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described herein;
   (d)   Vehicles used by fire departments, including motor vehicles when used
by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the fire department
service when identified as required by the Director of Public Safety;
   (e)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service to
an ill or injured person, when certified as a “public safety vehicle,” shall be
considered such a vehicle when transporting an ill or injured person to a
hospital, regardless of whether the vehicle has already passed a hospital; and
   (f)   Vehicles used by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the
enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission as specified
in R.C. § 5503.34.
(R.C. § 4511.01(E))
§ 301.28 RAILROAD.
   A carrier of persons or property operating upon rails placed principally on
a private right-of-way.
(R.C. § 4511.01(P))
§ 301.29 RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL.
   Any sign, signal or device erected by authority of a public body or official
or by a railroad, and intended to give notice of the presence of railroad
tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
(R.C. § 4511.01(SS))
§ 301.30 RAILROAD TRAIN.
   A steam engine or an electric or other motor, with or without cars coupled
thereto, operated by a railroad.
(R.C. § 4511.01(Q))
§ 301.31 RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   The territory, not comprising a business district, fronting on a street or
highway, including the street or highway, where, for a distance of 300 feet or
more, the frontage is improved with residences or residences and buildings in
use for business.
(R.C. § 4511.01(OO))
§ 301.311 RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENT.
   Includes the transportation of persons in a motor vehicle where the
transportation is incidental to another purpose of a volunteer driver, and
includes ridesharing arrangements known as carpools, vanpools and buspools.
(R.C. § 4511.01(DDD))
§ 301.32 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Either of the following, as the context requires:
   (a)   The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly in a
lawful manner in the direction in which it, he or she is moving, in preference
to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different direction into
its, his or her path; or
   (b)   A general term denoting land, property or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, right-of-way includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch and slopes extending to the right-of-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
(R.C. § 4511.01(UU))
§ 301.321 ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE.
   Wreckers, utility repair vehicles, and state, county, and municipal service
vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of flashing, rotating, or
oscillating lights.
(R.C. § 4511.01(JJJ))
§ 301.33 ROADWAY.
   That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two or
more separate roadways, the term roadway means any roadway separately, but not
all the roadways collectively.
(R.C. § 4511.01(EE))
§ 301.331 RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE.
   Every vehicle used to deliver United States mail on a rural mail delivery
route.
(R.C. § 4511.01(VV))
§ 301.34 SAFETY ZONE.
   The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the exclusive
use of pedestrians, and protected or marked or indicated by adequate signs so
as to be plainly visible at all times.
(R.C. § 4511.01(MM))
§ 301.35 SCHOOL BUS.
   Every bus designed for carrying more than nine passengers which is owned by
a public, private or governmental agency or institution of learning, and
operated for the transportation of children to or from a school session or a
school function, or owned by a private person and operated for compensation for
the transportation of children to or from a school session or a school
function; provided, “school bus” does not include a bus operated by a
municipally owned transportation system, a mass transit company operating
exclusively within the territorial limits of a municipality, or within those
limits and the territorial limits of municipalities immediately contiguous to
the municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the Public
Utilities Commission unless the bus is devoted exclusively to the
transportation of children to and from a school session or a school function,
and “school bus” does not include a van or bus used by a licensed child care
center or type A family child care home to transport children from the child
care center or type A family child care home to a school if the van or bus does
not have more than 15 children in the van or bus at any time.
(R.C. § 4511.01(F))
§ 301.36 SEMITRAILER.
   Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property with another
and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part of its own weight or
that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by another vehicle.
(R.C. § 4511.01(N))
§ 301.361 SHARED-USE PATH.
   A bikeway outside the traveled way and physically separated from motorized
vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and either within the highway
right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A shared-use path also may be
used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers, users of manual and motorized
wheelchairs, and other authorized motorized and non-motorized users. A shared-
use path does not include any trail that is intended to be used primarily for
mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar uses, or any other
single track or natural surface trial that has historically been reserved for
non-motorized use.
(R.C. § 4511.01(PPP))
§ 301.37 SIDEWALK.
   That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral line of a
roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of pedestrians.
(R.C. § 4511.01(FF))
§ 301.371 STATE HIGHWAY.
   A highway under the jurisdiction of the Department of Transportation,
outside the limits of municipalities, provided that the authority conferred
upon the Director of Transportation in R.C. § 5511.01 to erect state highway
route markers and signs directing traffic shall not be modified by R.C. §§
4511.01 through 4511.79 and § 4511.99.
(R.C. § 4511.01(II))
§ 301.38 STATE ROUTE.
   Every highway which is designated with an official state route number and so
marked.
(R.C. § 4511.01(JJ))
§ 301.39 STOP (WHEN REQUIRED).
   When required, means a complete cessation of movement.
§ 301.40 STOPPING OR STANDING.
   When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even momentarily, except
when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control device.
§ 301.41 STOP INTERSECTION.
   Any intersection at one or more entrances of which stop signs are erected.
(R.C. § 4511.01(BBB))
§ 301.42 STREET OR HIGHWAY.
   The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to the use of
the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
(R.C. § 4511.01(BB))
§ 301.43 THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY.
   Every street or highway as provided in R.C. § 4511.65, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.01(HH))
§ 301.44 THRUWAY.
   A through highway whose entire roadway is reserved for through traffic and
on which roadway parking is prohibited.
(R.C. § 4511.01(AAA))
§ 301.45 TRAFFIC.
   Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and other
devices, either singly or together, while using for purposes of travel any
highway or private road open to public travel.
(R.C. § 4511.01(TT))
§ 301.46 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE.
   A flagger, sign, signal, marking, or other device used to regulate, warn, or
guide traffic, placed on, over, or adjacent to a street, highway, private road
open to public travel, pedestrian facility, or shared-use path by authority of
a public agency or official having jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private
road open to public travel, by authority of the private owner or private
official having jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 4511.01(QQ))
§ 301.47 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL.
   Any highway traffic signal by which traffic is alternately directed to stop
and permitted to proceed.
(R.C. § 4511.01(RR))
§ 301.48 TRAILER.
   Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property wholly on
its own structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, including any
vehicle when formed by or operated as a combination of a semitrailer and a
vehicle of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a trailer dolly, a
vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production
materials between a local place of storage or supply and the farm when drawn or
towed on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour and a
vehicle designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of
storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a
street or highway for a distance of more than ten miles or at a speed of more
than 25 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4511.01(M))
§ 301.49 TRUCK.
   Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed and used to
carry property.
(R.C. § 4511.01(K))
§ 301.50 URBAN DISTRICT.
   The territory contiguous to and including any street or highway which is
built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of one-quarter of a
mile or more, and the character of the territory is indicated by official
traffic-control devices.
(R.C. § 4511.01(PP))
§ 301.51 VEHICLE.
   Every device, including a motorized bicycle and an electric bicycle, in,
upon or by which any person or property may be transported or drawn upon a
highway, except that vehicle does not include any motorized wheelchair, any
electric personal assistive mobility device, any low-speed micromobility
device, any personal delivery device as defined in R.C. § 4511.513, any device
that is moved by power collected from overhead electric trolley wires or that
is used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks or any device, other than a
bicycle, that is moved by human power.
(R.C. § 4511.01(A))
§ 301.52 WHEELCHAIR, MOTORIZED.
   Any self-propelled vehicle designed for, and used by, a person with a
disability and that is incapable of a speed in excess of eight miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4511.01(EEE))
§ 301.53 WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE.
   A vehicle used in the collection of garbage, refuse, trash, or recyclable
materials.
(R.C. § 4511.01(RRR))
CHAPTER 303: ENFORCEMENT, IMPOUNDING AND PENALTY
Section
303.01   Compliance with lawful order of police officer; fleeing
303.02   Traffic direction in emergencies; obedience to school guards
303.03   Police may remove ignition key
303.04   Road workers, motor vehicles and equipment excepted
303.041   Emergency, public safety and coroner’s vehicles excepted
303.05   Application to persons riding, driving animals upon roadway
303.06   Freeway use prohibited by pedestrians, bicycles and animals
303.07   Application to drivers of government vehicles
303.08   Impounding of vehicles; redemption
303.09   Abandoned, junk or unlicensed motor vehicles
303.10   Storage of junk motor vehicles (Repealed)
303.11   Furnishing false information incident to traffic citation
303.12   Resisting an enforcing official
303.13   Suspension of driver’s license
303.99   General Traffic Code penalty
Cross-reference:
   Exceptions for emergency or public safety vehicles, see §§
331.20,
333.06
Statutory reference:
   Citations for minor misdemeanors, see R.C. §§ 2935.26 et seq.
   Disposition of unclaimed vehicles, see R.C. §§ 737.32, 4513.62 et seq.
   Distinctive uniform required for traffic officers, see R.C. § 4549.15
   Marking motor vehicles used by traffic officers, see R.C. § 4549.13
   Power of trial court of record to suspend license for certain violations,
see R.C. §§ 4510.05, 4510.15
   State point system suspension, see R.C. § 4510.037
   Uniform application of Ohio Traffic Law, see R.C. § 4511.06
§ 303.01 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWFUL ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER; FLEEING.
   (a)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control or regulate
traffic.
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring the person’s motor vehicle to a stop.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)   A violation of division (a) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (c)(4) and (5) of this section, a
violation of division (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating division
(b) of this section and division (c)(5)A. of this section applies, the
sentencing court, in determining the seriousness of an offender’s conduct for
purposes of sentencing the offender for a violation of division (b) of this
section, shall consider, along with the factors set forth in R.C. §§ 2929.12
and 2929.13 that are required to be considered, all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the pursuit;
            2.   The distance of the pursuit;
            3.   The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
            4.   Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or stop
signs during the pursuit;
            5.   The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
            6.   Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
            7.   Whether the offender committed a moving violation during the
pursuit;
            8.   The number of moving violations the offender committed during
the pursuit; or
            9.   Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender’s
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense.
   (d)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of this
section, the court shall impose a class two suspension from the range specified
in R.C. § 4510.02(a)(2). If the offender previously has been found guilty of an
offense under this section, the court shall impose a class one suspension as
described in division (a)(1) of that section. The court shall not grant limited
driving privileges to the offender. No judge shall suspend the first three
years of suspension under a class two suspension of an offender’s license,
permit, or privilege required by this division on any portion of the suspension
under a class one suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege
required by this division.
   (e)   As used in this section:
      MOVING VIOLATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.70.
      POLICE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F))
§ 303.02 TRAFFIC DIRECTION IN EMERGENCIES; OBEDIENCE TO SCHOOL GUARDS.
   (a)   Police officers shall direct or regulate traffic in accordance with
the provisions of this Traffic Code, provided that, in the event of fire or
other emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, they are
authorized to direct traffic as conditions may require notwithstanding the
provisions of this Traffic Code. Firefighters, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity. The direction of traffic may be by word or audible signal, by gesture
or visible signal or by any combination thereof. No person shall fail to comply
with any lawful order or direction of any police officer or firefighter issued
pursuant to this section.
   (b)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any school crossing guard invested with authority to direct, control or
regulate traffic in the vicinity of the school to which the guard may be
assigned.
§ 303.03 POLICE MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway. The officer removing the key shall place notification upon the vehicle
detailing his or her name and badge number, the place where the key may be
reclaimed, and the procedure for reclaiming the key. The key shall be returned
to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of proof of ownership.
(R.C. § 4549.05)
§ 303.04 ROAD WORKERS, MOTOR VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT EXCEPTED.
   (a)   The provisions of this Traffic Code, except for §
333.01, do not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway within an area
designated by traffic-control devices, but apply to those persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from that work.
   (b)   The driver of a highway maintenance vehicle owned by this state or any
political subdivision of this state, while the driver is engaged in the
performance of official duties upon a street or highway, provided the highway
maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights and any other markings as
are required by law and the lights are in operation when the driver and vehicle
are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal prosecution for violations of
R.C. §§ 4511.22, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33,
4511.35, 4511.66, 4513.02 and 5577.01 to 5577.09, and any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (c)   (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of a highway maintenance
vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of R.C. § 4511.22, §
4511.25, § 4511.26, § 4511.27, § 4511.28, § 4511.30, § 4511.31, § 4511.33, §
4511.35, § 4511.66 or § 4513.02 or §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   This section does not exempt a driver of a vehicle who is not a
state employee and who is engaged in the transport of highway maintenance
equipment from criminal liability for a violation of R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (d)   As used in this section, ENGAGED IN THE PERFORMANCE OF OFFICIAL DUTIES
includes driving a highway maintenance vehicle to and from the manufacturer or
vehicle maintenance provider and transporting a highway maintenance vehicle,
equipment, or materials to and from a work location.
(R.C. § 4511.04)
§ 303.041 EMERGENCY, PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORONER’S VEHICLES EXCEPTED.
   (a)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.12, 4511.13, 4511.131, 4511.132,
4511.14, 4511.202, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26,
4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34,
4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42,
4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.62, 4511.66, 4511.68, 4511.681 and 4511.69, and any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle if the emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and if the driver of the vehicles is giving an audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle or bell. This section does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.041)
   (b)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29,
4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38 and
4511.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to
a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle
in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. This division does not relieve a coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.042)
§ 303.05 APPLICATION TO PERSONS RIDING, DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAY.
   Every person riding, driving or leading an animal upon a roadway is subject
to the provisions of this Traffic Code, applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except those provisions of this Traffic Code which by their nature are
inapplicable.
(R.C. § 4511.05)
§ 303.06 FREEWAY USE PROHIBITED BY PEDESTRIANS, BICYCLES AND ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:
      (1)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-
of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance.
      (2)   Occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-way of a
freeway, with: an animal-drawn vehicle; a ridden or led animal; herded animals;
a pushcart; a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the roadway
and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked for
bicycle use; an electric bicycle; a bicycle with motor attached; a motor-
driven cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower;
an agricultural tractor; farm machinery; except in the performance of public
works or official duties.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.051)
§ 303.07 APPLICATION TO DRIVERS OF GOVERNMENT VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this Traffic Code applicable to the drivers of vehicles
shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or operated by the United
States, any state or any political subdivision thereof, including this
municipality, except as may be otherwise provided by law and subject to
specific exceptions as are set forth with reference to authorized emergency and
public safety vehicles.
§ 303.08 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES; REDEMPTION.
   (a)   Police officers are authorized to provide for the removal and
impounding of a vehicle under the following circumstances:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any street, bridge or
causeway and is so illegally parked so as to constitute a hazard or obstruction
to the normal movement of traffic, or so as to unreasonably interfere with
street cleaning or snow removal operations;
      (2)   When any motor vehicle, including an abandoned junk motor vehicle,
as defined in R.C. § 4513.63, is left on private residential property, as
defined in R.C. § 4513.60, or on private agricultural property, for at least
four consecutive hours without the permission of the person having the right to
the possession of the property, or on a public street or other property open to
the public for purposes of vehicular travel, or upon or within the right-of-way
of any road or highway, for 48 consecutive hours or longer, without
notification to the Police Chief of the reasons for leaving the vehicle in that
place, except that when such a motor vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic, it may be ordered into storage immediately;
      (3)   When any vehicle has been stolen or operated without the consent of
the owner;
      (4)   When any vehicle displays illegal license plates or fails to
display the current lawfully required license plates;
      (5)   When any vehicle has been used in or connected with the commission
of a felony;
      (6)   When any vehicle has been damaged or wrecked so as to be inoperable
or violates equipment provisions of this Traffic Code whereby its continued
operation would constitute a condition hazardous to life, limb or property;
      (7)   When any vehicle is left unattended due to the removal of an ill,
injured or arrested operator;
      (8)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who has failed to
stop in case of an accident or collision;
      (9)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who is driving
without a lawful license or while his or her license has been suspended or
revoked;
      (10)   When any vehicle is found for which two or more citation tags for
violations of this Traffic Code have been issued and the owner or operator
thereof has failed to respond to the citation tags as lawfully required.
   (b)   Any vehicle removed under authority of division (a)(2) of this section
shall be ordered into storage and/or disposed of as provided under R.C. §§
4513.60 et seq. Any other vehicle removed under authority of this section shall
be ordered into storage and the Police Department shall forthwith notify the
registered vehicle owner of the fact of the removal and impounding, reasons
therefor and the place of storage. Any person desiring to redeem an impounded
vehicle shall appear at the Police Department to furnish satisfactory evidence
of identity and ownership or right to possession. Prior to issuance of a
release form, the claimant, owner or operator shall either pay the amount due
for any fines for violations on account of which the vehicle was impounded or,
as the court may require, post a bond in an amount set by the court, to appear
to answer to the violations. The pound operator shall release the vehicle upon
the receipt of the release form and payment of all towage and storage charges.
   (c)   No owner or operator shall remove an impounded vehicle from the place
of storage without complying with the above procedure. Possession of a vehicle
which has been impounded and unlawfully taken from the place of storage, by the
owner or operator, shall constitute prima facie evidence that it was so removed
by the owner or operator.
   (d)   The towing and storage charges to be assessed at a basic rate as
established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time. The basic rate as established shall be for the
time the impounded vehicle is in storage, and in addition thereto, for any
service performed by the city in order to properly maintain the impounded
vehicle, provided, however, that any person redeeming the impounded vehicle
more than 120 hours after the vehicle has been impounded shall pay an
additional fee as established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One -
Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 37-1979, passed 4-9-1979; Ord. 89-146, passed 11-13-1989)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 303.09 ABANDONED, JUNK OR UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle left without the permission of
the property owner on private property for any amount of time, or on property
open to the public for the purpose of vehicular travel or parking for more than
72 hours. The fact that a motor vehicle has been left without permission is
prima facie evidence of abandonment.
      JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle meeting any two of the following
requirements:
         A.   Is three years old or older;
         B.   Is extensively damaged, the damage including, but not limited to,
any of the following: missing wheels, tires, engine or transmission; and/or
         C.   Is not operable ( OPERABLE means able to be started and moved
under its own power for a minimum of 100 feet).
      MOTOR VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power
designed to travel along the ground by use of wheels or treads and transporting
persons or property or pulling machinery and includes, without limitations,
automobiles, trucks, trailers, buses, motorcycles, or tractors.
      PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is not street or
highway.
      UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that does not display in plain view
on the rear of the motor vehicle the license plate, including any county
identification sticker and a current, unexpired validation sticker issued under
R.C. §§ 4503.19 and 4503.191, or the applicable laws of any other jurisdiction.
   (b)   Public nuisance.  Except as otherwise provided, the deposit, storage,
maintenance or collection of abandoned, junk, or unlicensed motor vehicles,
outside of a building or buildings is hereby declared to be a public nuisance
and offensive to the public health, welfare and safety of the people of the
city.
   (c)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No junk or abandoned motor vehicle shall be left outside of a
garage or other suitable structure, or left not completely covered by means of
a cover that is not to be torn or deteriorated, for more than 72 hours with the
permission of the persons having the right to the possession of the property,
except if the person is operating a junk yard or scrap metal processing
facility licensed under the authority of an appropriate governmental entity.
      (2)    No junk or abandoned motor vehicle shall be left without the
permission of the property owner on private property for any amount of time.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, no person
shall be prevented from storing or keeping any collector’s vehicle, as defined
by R.C. § 4501.01(F), on private property with the permission of the person
having the right to the possession of the property inside of a garage or other
suitable structure, or completely covered by means of a cover that is not to be
torn or deteriorated.
      (4)   Unlicensed motor vehicles left on the public streets or highways
shall be subject to removal by the city under any applicable ordinance or
statute. The registered owner shall be responsible for the costs of towing and
storage of the motor vehicle.
      (5)   No person, firm, or corporation in charge or control of any
premises within the city, whether as owner, tenant, lessee, occupant, or
otherwise, shall willfully allow any junk or abandoned motor vehicle to remain
upon the premises longer than 72 hours after the receipt of written notice by
the city, to remove the junk or abandoned motor vehicle from the premises or
cover the vehicle by being housed in a garage or other suitable structure or
with a cover not torn or deteriorated. This written notice shall be served upon
the person in charge, either personally or by leaving notice at his or her
usual place of residence, or by certified mail addressed to his or her last
known address. The notice shall serve to put the recipient on notice with
respect to the requirements of the referenced sections of the code and obviate
the need for additional notice for the same or similar violation within 365
days of the date of the notice. The fact that a junk or abandoned motor vehicle
is left uncovered is prima facie evidence of willful failure to comply with the
notice and each subsequent period of 72 hours that the junk or abandoned motor
vehicle continues to be so left constitutes a separate offense.
   (e)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, the
offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section,
the offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as a limitation of any
other applicable regulations of the Zoning Code of the city.
(Ord. 2007-136, passed 10-22-2007)
§ 303.10 STORAGE OF JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES (REPEALED).
Editor’s note:
   Section 303.10 was repealed in its entirety by Ordinance 2007-136, passed -
-2007.
§ 303.11 FURNISHING FALSE INFORMATION INCIDENT TO TRAFFIC CITATION.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly present, display or orally communicate a
false name, Social Security number or date of birth to a law enforcement
officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic ticket or
complaint.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4513.361)
§ 303.12 RESISTING AN ENFORCING OFFICIAL.
   (a)   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct or abuse any sheriff,
constable or other official while that official is attempting to arrest
offenders under any provision of this Traffic Code. No person shall interfere
with any person charged under any provision of this Traffic Code with the
enforcement of the law relative to public highways.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.36)
   (c)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 303.13 SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4510.07 or in any other provision of
the Revised Code, whenever an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of any provision of this Traffic Code that is substantially
equivalent to a provision of the Revised Code, and a court is permitted or
required to suspend a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit for a violation of that provision, a court, in addition to any other
penalties authorized by law, may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege for the period of
time the court determines appropriate, but the period of suspension imposed for
the violation of the provision of this Traffic Code shall not exceed the period
of suspension that is permitted or required to be imposed for the violation of
the provision of the Revised Code to which the provision of this Traffic Code
is substantially equivalent.
(R.C. § 4510.05)
§ 303.99 GENERAL TRAFFIC CODE PENALTY.
   (a)   Generally. Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section violated is guilty of one
of the following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this
section, a minor misdemeanor;
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.99)
   (b)   Violations committed while distracted.
      (1)   As used in this section and each section referenced in division (b)
(2) of this section, all of the following apply:
         A.   DISTRACTED means doing either of the following while operating a
vehicle:
            1.   Using an electronic wireless communications device, as defined
in R.C. § 4511.204, in violation of that section.
            2.   Engaging in any activity that is not necessary to the
operation of a vehicle and impairs, or reasonably would be expected to impair,
the ability of the operator to drive the vehicle safely.
         B.   DISTRACTED does not include operating a motor vehicle while
wearing an earphone or earplug over or in both ears at the same time. A person
who so wears earphones or earplugs may be charged with a violation of R.C. §
4511.84, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         C.   DISTRACTED does not include conducting any activity while
operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or on behalf of a utility,
provided that the driver of the vehicle is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or a circumstance affecting the health or safety of individuals.
As used in this division (b)(1)C.:
            1.   UTILITY means an entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C),
(D), (E), or (G).
            2.   “Utility service vehicle” means a vehicle owned or operated by
a utility.
      (2)   If an offender violates R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12,
4511.121, 4511.132, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25,
4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33,
4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41,
4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451, 4511.46, 4511.47,
4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.64,
4511.71, 4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, or 4511.73, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
violation, the offender is subject to the applicable penalty for the violation
and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, is subject to an additional fine of not
more than $100 as follows:
         A.   1.   Subject to Traffic Rule 13, if a law enforcement officer
issues an offender a ticket, citation, or summons for a violation of any of the
aforementioned sections of the Ohio Revised Code, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that indicates that the offender was distracted
while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was a
contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the offender may enter
a written plea of guilty and waive the offender’s right to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial provided that the offender pays the total
amount of the fine established for the violation and pays the additional fine
of $100.
            2.   In lieu of payment of the additional fine of $100, the
offender instead may elect to attend a distracted driving safety course, the
duration and contents of which shall be established by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety. If the offender attends and successfully completes the course,
the offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of $100, so long as the offender submits to the court both the
offender’s payment in full and such written evidence within 90 days of the
underlying violation that resulted in the imposition of the additional fine
under division (b) of this section.
         B.   1.   If the offender appears in person to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial and the offender pleads guilty to or is
convicted of the violation, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, may impose the applicable penalty for the violation and may
impose the additional fine of not more than $100.
            2.   If the court imposes upon the offender the applicable penalty
for the violation and an additional fine of not more than $100, the court shall
inform the offender that, in lieu of payment of the additional fine of not more
than $100, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted driving
safety course described in division (b)(2)A. of this section. If the offender
elects the course option and attends and successfully completes the course, the
offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of not more than $100, so long as the offender submits to the
court the offender’s payment and such written evidence within 90 days of the
underlying violation that resulted in the imposition of the additional fine
under division (b) of this section.
      (3)   If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a ticket, citation,
or summons for a violation of any of the sections of the Revised Code listed in
division (b)(2) of this section that indicates that the offender was distracted
while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was a
contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the officer shall do
both of the following:
         A.   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation, or summons to the
officer’s law enforcement agency;
         B.   Ensure that such report indicates the offender’s race.
(R.C. § 4511.991)
   (c)   Penalties for misdemeanor. Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to
a misdemeanor, or minor misdemeanor shall be sentenced in accordance with §
501.99.
CHAPTER 305: TRAFFIC CONTROL
Section
305.01   Division of Traffic Engineering and Safety
305.02   Authority and considerations for placement of devices
305.03   Conformity with State Manual
305.04   Powers of Public Safety Director
305.05   Posting of signs and signals required
305.06   Director’s powers not limited
305.07   Records of Director
305.08   Reservation of power to Council
305.09   Violations subject to misdemeanor classification
Cross-reference:
   Designation of through streets and erection of stop or yield signs, see §
313.02
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of prima-facie speed limits, see R.C. §§ 4511.21, 4511.22(A),
4511.23
   Designation of through streets and erection of stop or yield signs, see R.C.
§ 4511.65
   Local traffic-control devices, see R.C. § 4511.11
   Power to designate highway as included in a freeway, expressway or thruway,
see R.C. § 4511.011
   Power to enact local traffic regulations, see R.C. §§ 4511.07, 4511.61
§ 305.01 DIVISION OF TRAFFIC ENGINEERING AND SAFETY.
   Pursuant to R.C. §§ 737.021 and 737.022, a Division of Traffic Engineering
and Safety is hereby created, and the Director of Public Safety shall be the
executive head of the Division.
§ 305.02 AUTHORITY AND CONSIDERATIONS FOR PLACEMENT OF DEVICES.
   The Director of Public Service is hereby authorized to place and maintain
traffic-control devices upon any street or highway under municipal jurisdiction
as are necessary to effectuate the provisions of this Traffic Code, or to
regulate, warn or guide traffic, and such other traffic-control devices as the
person shall deem necessary for the proper control of traffic. The designated
person shall determine the location, timing and coordination of the traffic-
control devices upon the basis of an applicable engineering or traffic
investigation and shall consider the following:
   (a)   The maximum safety and protection of vehicular and pedestrian traffic
from physical injury or property damage;
   (b)   The existing and potential traffic movement, volume and conditions;
   (c)   The location and frequency of accidents, including studies of remedial
measures;
   (d)   The recommendations of the Chief of Police and Fire Chief;
   (e)   The acceleration of transportation of persons and property by vehicles
so as to expedite travel and promote public safety;
   (f)   The convenience and welfare of the general public in parking,
standing, loading and unloading, and the use of the streets as affecting
business concerns and places of assembly; and
   (g)   Economy in the expenditure of money.
§ 305.03 CONFORMITY WITH STATE MANUAL.
   All traffic-control devices placed pursuant to the provisions of this
Traffic Code shall conform to the Ohio Manual and Specifications for a Uniform
System of Traffic-Control Devices, as adopted under R.C. § 4511.09.
§ 305.04 POWERS OF PUBLIC SAFETY DIRECTOR.
   The Director of Public Safety is hereby empowered to:
   (a)   Designate any street or highway as a through street or highway and
require that all vehicles stop or yield the right-of-way as may be required
before entering the same;
   (b)   Designate any intersection as a stop intersection and require all
vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to the intersection;
   (c)   Designate any intersection as a yield intersection and require all
vehicles to yield the right- of-way as required;
   (d)   Designate any street as a one-way street and require that all vehicles
thereon be moved in one specific direction;
   (e)   Designate and mark lanes to be used by traffic moving in a particular
direction regardless of the centerline of the roadway;
   (f)   Erect signs directing slow-moving traffic to use a designated lane or
allocating specified lanes to traffic moving in the same direction;
   (g)   Designate those portions of any street, where overtaking and passing
other traffic or driving to the left of the center or centerline of the roadway
would be especially hazardous, by appropriate signs or markings on the street
to indicate the beginning and end of the zones. These zones may be marked by an
auxiliary yellow line placed parallel and to the right of the normal centerline
or offset marked lane line;
   (h)   Place markers, buttons or signs within or adjacent to intersections
and require that a specific course of direction be traveled by vehicles
proceeding in lanes by either permitting, prohibiting or requiring turns at the
intersections;
   (i)   Install traffic-control devices, signals and signs at any location to
regulate traffic;
   (j)   Establish safety zones, crosswalks, zones of quiet and play streets;
   (k)   Close any street or portion thereof to vehicular traffic which is in
the process of construction, reconstruction or repair;
   (l)   Determine the location of any necessary bus stops and taxicab stands;
   (m)   Determine the location and limiting hours of truck loading zones;
   (n)   Designate dangerous railroad crossings and erect stop signs thereat;
   (o)   Erect “No U Turn” signs at any location to prohibit a vehicle from
being turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction;
   (p)   Regulate or prohibit the stopping, standing and parking of vehicles on
streets, alleys or public property by erecting signs plainly indicating the
prohibitions, restrictions or limitations;
   (q)   Designate individual parking spaces by markings, which may either be
parallel or at a prescribed angle to the curb or edge of the roadway;
   (r)   Designate truck routes and streets or parts thereof where either a
weight limit restriction or truck exclusion has been imposed by rule or
regulation provided it is not in conflict with any legislation;
   (s)   Erect signs to prohibit a right or left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection;
   (t)   Erect “no left turn” signs where he or she determines signs are
necessary for maximum safety and protection of vehicular and pedestrian
traffic, taking into consideration the following standards:
      (1)   The existing and potential traffic movement, volume and conditions;
      (2)   The location and frequency of accidents, including studies of
remedial measures;
      (3)   The recommendations of the Police and Fire Chiefs;
      (4)   The acceleration of transportation of persons and property by
vehicles so as to expedite travel and promote public safety;
      (5)   The convenience and welfare of the general public in parking,
standing, loading and unloading, and the use of the streets as affecting
business concerns and places of assembly; and
      (6)   Economy in the expenditure of money.
(Ord. 87-98, passed 10-12-1987)
§ 305.05 POSTING OF SIGNS AND SIGNALS REQUIRED.
   No provision of this chapter shall be effective until signs, signals,
markings or other devices giving notice of the local traffic regulations are
posted upon or at the entrance to the street or part thereof affected, as may
be most appropriate, so that in a proper position they are sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
§ 305.06 DIRECTOR’S POWERS NOT LIMITED.
   The powers of the Director of Public Safety pursuant to §
305.02 shall not be limited by the specific enumeration of subjects contained
in this chapter.
§ 305.07 RECORDS OF DIRECTOR.
   The Director of Public Safety pursuant to §
305.02 shall keep a record of all rules, regulations and proceedings
promulgated in connection with this chapter.
§ 305.08 RESERVATION OF POWER TO COUNCIL.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, Council may override any
decision of the Director of Public Safety and may assume any of the powers
delegated to the person, by a resolution adopted by a vote of a majority of the
members duly elected thereto. Upon the adoption of any resolution, the same may
be changed only by an amending or repealing resolution adopted by Council.
§ 305.09 VIOLATIONS SUBJECT TO MISDEMEANOR CLASSIFICATION.
   Any person violating the rules and regulations promulgated in connection
with this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be subject to the penalties provided for in §
303.99.
***** TITLE THREE: STREETS AND TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES *****
CHAPTER 311: STREET OBSTRUCTIONS AND SPECIAL USES
Section
311.01   Placing injurious material or obstruction in street
311.02   Parades and assemblages
311.03   Toy vehicles on roadway
311.04   Play streets
311.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Dropping, sifting and leaking loads, see §
339.08
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate processions or assemblages, see R.C. § 4511.07(C)
§ 311.01 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL OR OBSTRUCTION IN STREET.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a
highway, lane, road, street or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or
other articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle or animal
traveling along or upon the highway, except the substances that may be placed
upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same.
      (3)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from the vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway without
proper authority.
   (b)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or a
vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road,
street or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or other articles which
may damage or injure any person, vehicle or animal traveling along or upon the
highway, except substances that may be placed upon the roadway by proper
authority for the repair or construction thereof.
   (c)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (a) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4511.74)
§ 311.02 PARADES AND ASSEMBLAGES.
   (a)   Permit required; bond and fee. No person shall conduct or participate
in a street assemblage, parade or procession, other than a funeral procession,
upon any street or highway without having first obtained a permit from the
Chief of Police. Applications for permits shall be made on forms as the Chief
shall prescribe, not less than five days before the time intended for the
assemblages, parades or processions. The Chief of Police shall designate the
places of gathering or formation and of dispersal of the assemblage, parade or
procession, and the route of march or travel and the streets or highways which
may be used or occupied therein. Except in the case of parades in which no
animals, motor vehicles or automotive equipment are driven, the applicant shall
furnish bond or indemnity insurance in a reasonable sum as the Chief of Police
shall fix for the benefit of the municipality and of any private person, firm
or corporation who shall be injured or damaged by the parade. The bond or
insurance shall not be released as long as any claim shall remain undisposed of
or unsatisfied. A fee be charged for each permit issued. The fee shall be as
established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time.
   (b)   Breaking procession. No person shall drive between moving vehicles of
a funeral or other authorized procession or parade, but the Chief of Police
shall provide passage for cross traffic through the processions or parades, at
major intersections, the intervals not exceeding ten minutes, or posted
alternate routes shall be provided at cross traffic. For the purpose of this
section, a MAJOR INTERSECTION is defined as an intersection at which the cross
street bears traffic other than that normally generated by the properties
abutting the cross street.
   (c)   Parking on parade route. The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to
prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or highway or part
thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade or of a procession and to
erect temporary signs to that effect. No person shall park or leave unattended
any vehicle in violation of the signs.
   (d)   Demonstration on or near street or highway. No person shall, upon any
sidewalk or upon any premises abutting thereon, make any speech or harangue or
demonstrate, sell or offer for sale goods, wares or merchandise or display any
signs, device, information or exhibition in consequence of which there is
caused or created a gathering of persons on the sidewalk as to interfere with
pedestrian traffic thereon.
(Ord. 21-1969, passed 2-23-1969)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 311.03 TOY VEHICLES ON ROADWAY.
   No person riding upon any coaster, roller skates, sled, toy vehicle or other
similar device shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a street on a
crosswalk, and when so crossing the person shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians. This
section shall not apply to any street set aside as a play street.
§ 311.04 PLAY STREETS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that any street or part
thereof is a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street
or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose
residences are within the closed area and then the drivers shall exercise the
greatest care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof.
§ 311.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:  
   See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 313: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
313.01   Obedience to traffic-control devices
313.02   Through streets; stop and yield right-of-way signs
313.03   Traffic-control signal terms and lights
313.04   Signal to control lane direction of travel
313.05   Pedestrian control signals
313.06   Reserved
313.07   Unauthorized signs and signals, hiding from view, advertising
313.08   Alteration, injury, removal of traffic- control devices
313.09   Intersections at which traffic-control signals fail or malfunction
313.10   Unauthorized possession or sale of devices
313.11   Signal preemption devices; prohibitions
313.12   Traffic law photo-monitoring devices (Repealed)
313.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Traffic-control devices defined, see §
301.46
Statutory reference:
   Designation of through streets or stop intersections, see R.C. §§ 4511.07
(F), 4511.65
   Placing and maintaining local traffic-control devices, see R.C. §§ 4511.10,
4511.11
   Traffic law photo-monitoring devices, state regulations, see R.C. §§
4511.092 et seq.
   Uniform system of traffic-control devices, see R.C. §§ 4511.09, 4511.11(D)
§ 313.01 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (a)   (1)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this Traffic Code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   No provision of this Traffic Code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section of this Traffic Code does not state that signs are required, that
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(R.C. § 4511.12(A))
   (b)   (1)   Except as provided in division (c) of this section, any operator
of a commercial motor vehicle, upon approaching a scale location established
for the purpose of determining the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall
comply with any traffic-control device or the order of a peace officer
directing the vehicle to proceed to be weighed or otherwise inspected.
      (2)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, upon bypassing a scale
location in accordance with division (c) of this section, shall comply with an
order of a peace officer to stop the vehicle to verify the use and operation of
an electronic clearance device.
   (c)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle that is equipped with an
electronic clearance device authorized by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4549.081 may bypass a scale location, regardless of
the instruction of a traffic-control device to enter the scale facility, if
either of the following apply:
      (1)   The in-cab transponder displays a green light or other affirmative
visual signal and also sounds an affirmative audible signal;
      (2)   Any other criterion established by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol is met.
   (d)   Any peace officer may order the operator of a commercial motor vehicle
that bypasses a scale location to stop the vehicle to verify the use and
operation of an electronic clearance device.
   (e)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE means any
combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or an actual gross
vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds if the vehicle is used in interstate
or intrastate commerce to transport property and also means any vehicle that is
transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is required pursuant to
49 C.F.R. Parts 100 to 180.
(R.C. § 4511.121(A) - (C), (E))
   (f)   No person shall use an electronic clearance device if the device or
its use is not in compliance with rules of the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol.
(R.C. § 4549.081(B))
   (g)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If
the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting activity
is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the offender is
subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.12(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (b) of this
section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (b)
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender commits the offense while
distracted and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the
commission of the offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine
established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.121(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (f) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.081(C))
§ 313.02 THROUGH STREETS; STOP AND YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY SIGNS.
   (a)   All state routes are hereby designated as through highways, provided
that stop signs, yield signs or traffic-control signals shall be erected at all
intersections with such through highways by the Department of Transportation as
to highways under its jurisdiction and by local authorities as to highways
under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section. Where
two or more state routes that are through highways intersect, and no traffic-
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section. Whenever the
Director of Transportation determines on the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop traffic on a
through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this section shall
be construed to prevent the installations. When circumstances warrant, the
Director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through highways
under his or her jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs or removes a
stop sign under this division, he or she shall give notice, in writing, of that
proposed action to the affected local authority at least 30 days before
installing or removing the stop sign.
   (b)   Other streets or highways, or portions thereof, are hereby designated
as through highways if they are within the municipality, if they have a
continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of the street or
highway or portion thereof, and if they have stop or yield signs or traffic-
control signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or
highways. For purposes of this section, the limits of the street or highway, or
portion thereof, shall be the municipal corporation line, the physical terminus
of the street or highway, or any point on the streets or highway at which
vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or yield to
traffic on the intersecting street, provided, that in residence districts, the
municipality may by ordinance designate the street or highway, or portion
thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected residence
district shall be indicated by official traffic-control devices. Where two or
more through highways designated under this division intersect and no traffic-
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (c)   The Department or local authorities having jurisdiction need not erect
stop signs at intersections they find to be so constructed as to permit traffic
to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall be
erected at the intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the through
highway.
   (d)   Local authorities, with reference to highways under their
jurisdiction, may designate additional through highways, and shall erect stop
signs, yield signs or traffic-control signals at all streets and highways
intersecting the through highways, or may designate any intersection as a stop
or yield intersection, and shall erect like signs at one or more entrances to
the intersection.
(R.C. § 4511.65)
§ 313.03 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL TERMS AND LIGHTS.
   Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings:
   (a)   Steady green signal indication.
      (1)   A.   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication
are permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal
indication, or other traffic control device. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         B.   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, are permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         A.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
         B.   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   A.   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in R.C. § 4511.14, pedestrians facing a circular green signal
indication are permitted to proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked associated crosswalk. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection or so close as to create an immediate
hazard at the time that the green signal indication is first displayed.
         B.   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
   (b)   Steady yellow signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
are thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will
be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, shall not start to
cross the roadway.
   (c)   Steady red signal indication.
      (1)   A.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in divisions (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)
(3) of this section.
         B.   Except when a traffic control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted, after
stopping, to enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-
way street into a one-way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   A.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         B.   When a traffic control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the intersection to turn
right, or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street. The right
to proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the
arrow and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a
stop at a stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, pedestrians facing
a steady circular red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not enter the
roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on state highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (d)   Flashing green signal indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (e)   Flashing yellow signal indication.
      (1)   A.   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane-use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications, or other traffic control devices. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall
yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         B.   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn to
the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   A.   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination with
another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the intersection
only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or other such movement as is
permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same time. Such
vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn,
shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         B.   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn to
the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (f)   Flashing red signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter, or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (g)   In the event an official traffic- control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (h)   This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
R.C. §§ 4511.61 and 4511.62.
(R.C. § 4511.13)
§ 313.04 SIGNAL TO CONTROL LANE DIRECTION OF TRAVEL.
   The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
   (a)   A steady downward green arrow. A road user is permitted to drive in
the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.
   (b)   A steady yellow “X”. A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane over
which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is being
made to a steady red “X” signal indication.
   (c)   A steady white two-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not
for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by
oncoming road users for left turns also is permitted.
   (d)   A steady white one-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without
opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.
   (e)   A steady red “X”. A road user is not permitted to use the lane over
which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall
modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic controls present.
(R.C. § 4511.131)
§ 313.05 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don’t walk,” or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm are in
place, these signals shall indicate the following instructions:
   (a)   A steady walking person signal indication, which symbolizes “walk”,
means that a pedestrian facing the signal indication is permitted to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, possibly in
conflict with turning vehicles. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the walking person
signal indication is first shown.
   (b)   A flashing upraised hand signal indication, which symbolizes “don't
walk”, means that a pedestrian shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal indication, but that any pedestrian who has already
started to cross on a steady walking person signal indication shall proceed to
the far side of the traveled way of the street or highway, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic control device to proceed only to the median of a divided
highway or only to some other island or pedestrian refuge area.
   (c)   A steady upraised hand signal indication means that a pedestrian shall
not enter the roadway in the direction of the signal indication.
   (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the continued
use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word “wait” if those signals
were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
   (e)   A flashing walking person signal indication has no meaning and shall
not be used.
(R.C. § 4511.14)
§ 313.06 RESERVED.
§ 313.07 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS, HIDING FROM VIEW, ADVERTISING.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of
any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to
be, is an imitation of or resembles a traffic- control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal; and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit, upon any highway, any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit either the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic-
control devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic-control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with R.C. §§ 4511.211 and
4511.432.
      (2)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking or device is a public
nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway may remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.16)
§ 313.08 ALTERATION, INJURY, REMOVAL OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (a)   No person, without lawful authority, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic-control device, any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield or insignia on the device, sign or signal, or any part of
the device, sign or signal;
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition, and is marked by flags, markers, signs or other devices
intended to protect it;
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy or otherwise improperly tamper with
a manhole cover.
   (b)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a)(1) or (a)(3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree. If a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(3) of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(3) of
this section causes serious physical harm to property that is owned, leased, or
controlled by a state or local authority, the offender is guilty of a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (a)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (a)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.17)
§ 313.09 INTERSECTIONS AT WHICH TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS FAIL OR MALFUNCTION.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle who approaches an intersection where traffic
is controlled by traffic control signals shall do all of the following if the
signal facing the driver exhibits no colored lights or colored lighted arrows,
exhibits a combination of such lights or arrows that fails to clearly indicate
the assignment of right-of-way, or, if the vehicle is a bicycle or an electric
bicycle, the signals are otherwise malfunctioning due to the failure of a
vehicle detector to detect the presence of the bicycle or electric bicycle:
      (1)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, stop
before entering the intersection;
      (2)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in the intersection or
approaching on an intersecting road, if the vehicles will constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways;
      (3)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.132)
§ 313.10 UNAUTHORIZED POSSESSION OR SALE OF DEVICES.
   (a)   As used in this section, TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE means any sign,
traffic-control signal or other device conforming to and placed or erected in
accordance with the manual adopted under R.C. § 4511.09 by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, including signs denoting the names of streets and
highways, but does not mean any pavement marking.
   (b)   No individual shall buy or otherwise possess, or sell, a traffic-
control device, except when one of the following applies:
      (1)   In the course of the individual’s employment by the state or a
local authority for the express or implied purpose of manufacturing, providing,
erecting, moving or removing such a traffic-control device;
      (2)   In the course of the individual’s employment by any manufacturer of
traffic-control devices other than a state or local authority;
      (3)   For the purpose of demonstrating the design and function of a
traffic-control device to state or local officials;
      (4)   When the traffic-control device has been purchased from the state
or a local authority at a sale of property that is no longer needed or is unfit
for use; or
      (5)   When the traffic-control device has been properly purchased from a
manufacturer for use on private property and the person possessing the device
has a sales receipt for the device or other acknowledgment of sale issued by
the manufacturer.
   (c)   This section does not preclude, and shall not be construed as
precluding, prosecution for theft in violation of R.C. § 2913.02, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or for receiving stolen property
in violation of R.C. § 2913.51, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.18)
§ 313.11 SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)   No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of a traffic-control device.
   (b)   Division (a)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the following
persons and division (a)(2) of this section does not apply to any of the
following persons when responding to an emergency call:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 109.71(A)(1), (A)(12), (A)
(14) or (A)(19);
      (2)   A State Highway Patrol officer;
      (3)   A person while occupying a public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E)(1), (E)(3) or (E)(4).
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (a)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (d)   As used in this section, PORTABLE SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICE means a
device that, if activated by a person, is capable of changing a traffic-control
signal to green out of sequence.
(R.C. § 4511.031)
§ 313.12 TRAFFIC LAW PHOTO-MONITORING DEVICES (REPEALED).
Editor’s note:
   Section 313.12 was repealed as part of the 2016 updating and revision of
these Codified Ordinances because substantially equivalent state law (R.C. §
4511.094) was repealed by the Ohio General Assembly.
§ 313.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:  
   See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
***** TITLE FIVE: VEHICLES *****
CHAPTER 331: OPERATION GENERALLY
Section
331.01   Driving upon right side of roadway; exceptions
331.02   Passing to right when proceeding in opposite directions
331.03   Overtaking, passing to left; driver’s duties
331.04   Overtaking, passing to right of vehicle
331.05   Overtaking, passing to left of centerline
331.06   Driving upon left side of roadway
331.07   Hazardous or no passing zones
331.08   Driving within lanes or continuous lines of traffic
331.09   Following too closely
331.10   Turning at intersections
331.11   Turning into private driveway, alley or building
331.12   “U” turns restricted
331.13   Starting and backing vehicles
331.14   Signals before changing course, turning or stopping
331.15   Hand and arm signals
331.16   Right-of-way at intersections
331.17   Right-of-way when turning left
331.18   Operation of vehicle at stop and yield signs
331.19   Operation of vehicle at stop signs (Recodified)
331.20   Emergency or public safety vehicles at stop signals or signs
331.21   Right-of-way of public safety or coroner’s vehicle
331.22   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway; duty to yield
331.23   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway; stopping at
sidewalk
331.24   Right-of-way of funeral procession
331.25   Driver’s view and control to be unobstructed by load or persons
331.26   Driving upon street posted as closed for repair
331.27   Following and parking near emergency or safety vehicles
331.28   Driving over fire hose
331.29   Driving through safety zone
331.30   One-way streets and rotary traffic islands
331.31   Driving upon divided roadways
331.32   Entering and exiting controlled-access highway
331.33   Obstructing intersection, crosswalk or grade crossings
331.34   Weaving; full time and attention
331.35   Occupying travel trailer, fifth wheel vehicle, or manufactured or
mobile home while in motion
331.36   “Peeling;” cracking exhaust noises
331.37   Driving upon sidewalks, street lawns or curbs
331.38   Stopping for school bus; actuating visual signals; discharging
children
331.39   Driving across grade crossings
331.40   Stopping at grade crossings
331.41   Quiet zones
331.42   Shortcutting, evading traffic-control signal or device
331.43   Littering from motor vehicles
331.44   Use of earphones while driving
331.45   Stop signs on private roads and driveways
331.46   Slow-moving vehicles or equipment at grade crossings
331.47   Texting while driving prohibited
331.48   Use of electronic wireless communication devices by minors or
probationary drivers while driving prohibited
331.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Obedience to traffic-control devices, see §
313.01
   Operation of bicycles and motorcycles, see §§
373.01 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   School bus operation, see O.A.C. Ch. 4501-3
§ 331.01 DRIVING UPON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing those
movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of- way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within the distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic;
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control
device.
   (b)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right- hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
the passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         A.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         B.   When preparing for a left turn;
         C.   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right- hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (b)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (c)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the centerline of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under division (a)(2) of this section. This division shall
not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the centerline in making a left
turn into or from an alley, private road or driveway.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.25)
§ 331.02 PASSING TO RIGHT WHEN PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (a)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly one-half as is
reasonably possible.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.26)
§ 331.03 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT; DRIVER’S DUTIES.
   (a)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (a)(3) of this
section, signal to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof
at a safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. When a motor vehicle overtakes and
passes a bicycle or electric bicycle, three feet or greater is considered a
safe passing distance.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking    vehicle at the latter’s audible signal, and the operator shall
not increase the speed of the operator’s vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in R.C. §
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in R.C. § 5511.02, or a highway
with four or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to the
vehicle being overtaken and passed.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.27)
§ 331.04 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO RIGHT OF VEHICLE.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting the movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.28)
§ 331.05 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT OF CENTERLINE.
   (a)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction, unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching from the
opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable, and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for the
traffic approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.29)
§ 331.06 DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (a)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator’s view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct or tunnel; or
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (b)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side, or
under the conditions described in R.C. § 4511.25(A)(2) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.30)
§ 331.07 HAZARDOUS OR NO PASSING ZONES.
   (a)   The Department of Transportation may determine those portions of any
state highway where overtaking and passing other traffic or driving to the left
of the center or centerline of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and
may, by appropriate signs or markings on the highway, indicate the beginning
and end of the zones. When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible,
every operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the signs or markings,
notwithstanding the distances set out in R.C. § 4511.30.
   (b)   Division (a) of this section does not apply when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location.
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit.
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or centerline of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
R.C. § 4511.29, considering the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.31)
§ 331.08 DRIVING WITHIN LANES OR CONTINUOUS LINES OF TRAFFIC.
   (a)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, or wherever within the municipality traffic is lawfully
moving in two or more substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the
following rules apply:
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from the lane or
line until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
the two- way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is
clearly visible and the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance,
or when preparing for a left turn, or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding, and is posted with signs to give notice of that allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of the signs.
      (4)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.33)
§ 331.09 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (a)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
      (2)   The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle,
when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district, shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between the vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
the space without danger. This division (a) does not prevent overtaking and
passing nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
      (3)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade shall maintain a sufficient
space between the vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy the
space without danger. This division shall not apply to funeral processions.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.34)
§ 331.10 TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of the centerline where it
enters the intersection, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of
the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in
that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the
vehicle, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane
of the roadway being entered lawfully available to traffic moving in that lane.
   (b)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities may cause
markers, buttons or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections, and
thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in this
section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when markers,
buttons or signs are so placed, no operator of a vehicle shall turn the vehicle
at an intersection other than as directed and required by the markers, buttons
or signs.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.36)
§ 331.11 TURNING INTO PRIVATE DRIVEWAY, ALLEY OR BUILDING.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn into a private road or
driveway, alley or building from a public street or highway shall be governed
by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   Upon a roadway where traffic is proceeding in opposite directions,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made from that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the center line thereof.
      (3)   Upon a roadway where traffic is restricted to one direction,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable
to the left-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle entering a private
road or driveway, alley or building to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
lawfully using the sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
private road, driveway or building.
§ 331.12 “U” TURNS RESTRICTED.
   (a)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.13 and division (b) of this section,
no vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if the vehicle
cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from either direction.
   (b)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This division applies only when the emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle or bell. This division does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.37)
   (e)   Except as provided in division (b) of this section, no vehicle shall
be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction within an intersection, or
upon any street in a business district, or upon a freeway, expressway or
controlled-access highway, or where authorized signs are erected to prohibit
that movement, or at any other location unless the movement can be made with
reasonable safety to other users of the public way and without interfering with
the safe operation of any traffic that may be affected by the movement.
§ 331.13 STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or
parked until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning, and
while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on
the street or highway.
      (3)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         A.   In a rest area;
         B.   In the performance of public works or official duties;
         C.   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of
a motor vehicle.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.38)
§ 331.14 SIGNALS BEFORE CHANGING COURSE, TURNING OR STOPPING.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a
highway unless and until the person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a
bicycle or electric bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time
but is not required to be continuous. A bicycle or electric bicycle operator is
not required to make a signal if the bicycle is in a designated turn lane, and
a signal shall not be given when the operator’s hands are needed for the safe
operation of the bicycle or electric bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear, when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
      (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm, or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic the intention to turn or move right
or left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped
with, and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside
limit of the body, cab or load of the motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when
the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit
of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet, whether a single vehicle or a
combination of vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal
to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.39)
§ 331.15 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this section, all signals
required by the provisions of this Traffic Code, when given by hand and arm,
shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and
the signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
   (b)   As an alternative to division (a)(2) of this section, a person
operating a bicycle or electric bicycle may give a right turn signal by
extending the right hand and arm horizontally and to the right side of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.40)
§ 331.16 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (a)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (b)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (a) of this section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this Traffic Code or
R.C. Chapter 4511.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.41)
§ 331.17 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   (a)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.42)
§ 331.18 OPERATION OF VEHICLE AT STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (a)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
slowing, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a
collision with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after
driving past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield the right-of- way.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.43)
§ 331.19 OPERATION OF VEHICLE AT STOP SIGNS (RECODIFIED).
Editor’s note:
   Sections
331.18 and
331.19 were combined as part of the 2004 updating and revision of these
codified ordinances. For provisions regarding Operation of vehicle at stop
signs, please see §
331.18.
§ 331.20 EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES AT STOP SIGNALS OR SIGNS.
   (a)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any
stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed
cautiously past the red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the street or highway.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.03)
§ 331.21 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY OR CORONER’S VEHICLE.
   (a)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner’s vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive, if practical, to a position parallel to, and as
close as possible to, the right edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection, and stop and remain in that position until the public safety
vehicle or coroner’s vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (b)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (c)   This section applies to a coroner’s vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. As used in this section, CORONER’S VEHICLE means a vehicle
used by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator that is equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and a siren, exhaust
whistle or bell capable of giving an audible signal.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (e), whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a
first offense. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4511.45)
   (e)   (1)   When the failure of a motor vehicle operator to yield the right-
of-way to a public safety vehicle as required by division (a) of this section
impedes the ability of the public safety vehicle to respond to an emergency,
any emergency personnel in the public safety vehicle may report the license
plate number and a general description of the vehicle and the operator of the
vehicle to the law enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the area
where the alleged violation occurred.
      (2)   A.   Upon receipt of a report under division (e)(1) of this
section, the law enforcement agency may conduct an investigation to attempt to
determine or confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation.
         B.   If the identity of the operator at the time of an alleged
violation of division (a) of this section is established, the law enforcement
agency has probable cause to issue either a written warning or a citation for
that violation, and the agency shall issue a written warning or a citation to
the operator.
         C.   If the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency may issue a
written warning to the person who owned the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation. However, in the case of a leased or rented vehicle, the law
enforcement agency shall issue the written warning to the person who leased or
rented the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
      (3)   A.   Whoever violates division (a) of this section based on a
report filed under division (e)(1) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined $150.
         B.   If a person who is issued a citation for a violation of division
(a) of this section based on a report filed under division (e)(1) of this
section does not enter a written plea of guilty and does not waive the person’s
right to contest the citation but instead appears in person in the proper court
to answer the charge, the trier of fact cannot find beyond a reasonable doubt
that the person committed that violation unless the emergency personnel who
filed the report appears in person in the court and testifies.
      (4)   As used in this division (e):
         A.   LICENSE PLATE. Includes any temporary motor vehicle license
registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182 or similar law of another
jurisdiction.
         B.   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Does not include an unmarked public safety
vehicle or a vehicle used by a public law enforcement officer or other person
sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state or a vehicle used
by the motor carrier enforcement unit for the enforcement of orders and rules
of the public utilities commission.
(R.C. § 4511.454)
§ 331.22 DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PLACE OTHER THAN ROADWAY; DUTY TO YIELD.
   (a)   The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from any
place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic
approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.44)
§ 331.23 DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PLACE OTHER THAN ROADWAY: STOPPING AT
SIDEWALK.
   (a)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building,
private road or driveway within a business or residence district shall stop the
vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across the alley, building entrance, road or driveway, or in the
event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to
be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.431(A))
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (b) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (b) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (b) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.431(B))
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn into a private road or
driveway, alley or building from a public street or highway shall be governed
by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   Upon a roadway where traffic is proceeding in opposite directions,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made from that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof.
      (3)   Upon a roadway where traffic is restricted to one direction,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable
to the left-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (c)   It shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle entering a private
road or driveway, alley or building to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
lawfully using the sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across the private road
or driveway, alley or building.
§ 331.24 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF FUNERAL PROCESSION.
   (a)   As used in this section, FUNERAL PROCESSION means two or more vehicles
accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in the
daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights lighted and is displaying
a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each vehicle in
such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from any
direction.
   (b)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with R.C. §
4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or when directed
otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the operators of all vehicles
shall yield the right-of-way to each vehicle that is a part of a funeral
procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral procession lawfully enters
an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in the procession may continue
to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection, notwithstanding any
traffic-control devices or right-of-way provisions of the Revised Code,
provided that the operator of each vehicle exercises due care to avoid
colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (c)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
without having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and without displaying a
purple and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (e)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.451)
§ 331.25 DRIVER’S VIEW AND CONTROL TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED BY LOAD OR PERSONS.
   (a)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (b)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (c)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic; nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.70)
§ 331.26 DRIVING UPON STREET POSTED AS CLOSED FOR REPAIR.
   (a)   No person shall drive upon, along or across a street or highway, or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by
the authority having jurisdiction to close the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.71(A))
   (b)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on or onto a public street or
highway that is temporarily covered by a rise in water level, including
groundwater or an overflow of water, and that is clearly marked by a sign that
specifies that the road is closed due to the rise in water level and that any
person who uses the closed portion of the road may be fined up to $2,000.
      (2)   A person who is issued a citation for a violation of division (b)
(1) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and
waive the person’s right to contest the citation in court, but instead must
appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
(R.C. § 4511.714(A), (B))
   (c)   (1)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         B.   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.71(B))
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         B.   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required
under R.C. § 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required under
any provision of law, the court imposing the sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (b) of this section
shall order the offender to reimburse one or more rescuers for the cost any
such rescuer incurred in rescuing the person, excluding any cost of
transporting the rescued person to a hospital or other facility for treatment
of injuries, up to a cumulative maximum of $2,000. If more than one rescuer was
involved in the emergency response, the court shall allocate the reimbursement
proportionately, according to the cost each rescuer incurred. A financial
sanction imposed under this section is a judgment in favor of the rescuer and,
subject to a determination of indigency under R.C. § 2929.28(B), a rescuer may
collect the financial sanction in the same manner as provided in R.C. §
2929.28.
(R.C. § 4511.714(C))
   (d)   As used in this section:
      (1)   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Has the same meanings as in
R.C. § 9.60.
      (2)   FIREFIGHTING AGENCY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      (3)   PRIVATE FIRE COMPANY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      (4)   RESCUER. Means a state agency, political subdivision, firefighting
agency, private fire company, or emergency medical service organization.
(R.C. § 4511.714(D))
§ 331.27 FOLLOWING AND PARKING NEAR EMERGENCY OR SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (a)   The driver of any vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle on official business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet,
or drive into or park the vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has
stopped in answer to a fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer
or a firefighter.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.72)
§ 331.28 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (a)   No vehicle shall, without the consent of the Fire Department official
in command, be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.73)
§ 331.29 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   (a)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.60)
§ 331.30 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (a)   (1)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
      (2)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the rotary traffic island.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.32)
§ 331.31 DRIVING UPON DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (a)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across or within any dividing space, barrier or section, except through an
opening, crossover or intersection established by public authority. This
section does not prohibit the occupancy of the dividing space, barrier or
section for the purpose of an emergency stop, or in compliance with an order of
a police officer.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.35)
§ 331.32 ENTERING AND EXITING CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access highway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
§ 331.33 OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTION, CROSSWALK OR GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (a)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing, unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.712)
§ 331.34 WEAVING; FULL TIME AND ATTENTION.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle upon any street
or highway in a weaving or zigzag course unless the irregular course is
necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without giving
his or her full time and attention to the operation of the vehicle.
§ 331.35 OCCUPYING TRAVEL TRAILER, FIFTH WHEEL VEHICLE, OR MANUFACTURED OR
MOBILE HOME WHILE IN MOTION.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this section, no person shall
occupy any travel trailer, fifth wheel trailer, or manufactured or mobile home
while it is being used as a conveyance upon a street or highway.
   (b)   (1)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to a fifth wheel
trailer when both of the following apply:
         A.   Any child riding in the fifth wheel trailer is properly secured
in the manner provided in R.C. § 4511.81.
         B.   The operator of the vehicle towing the fifth wheel trailer has
some means of viable communication with the passengers riding in the trailer.
      (2)   As used in this division, “viable communication” includes a
cellular or satellite telephone, a radio, or any other similar electronic
wireless communications device.
   (c)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
(R.C. § 4511.701)
§ 331.36 “PEELING;” CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe
operation, or in compliance with law, in such a manner that the vehicle is so
rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position, or in the shifting of
gears while in motion, that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or
chattering noise unusual to its normal operation, or that the rubber tires of
the vehicle squeal or leave tire marks on the roadway, commonly known as
“peeling.”
§ 331.37 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALKS, STREET LAWNS OR CURBS.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle or an
electric bicycle if the motor is not engaged, upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area,
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
      (2)   This prohibition does not apply to a law enforcement officer, or
other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, using
an electric bicycle with the motor engaged while in the performance of the
officer's duties.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting local
authorities from regulating the operation of bicycles or electric bicycles,
except that no local authority may require that bicycles or electric bicycles
be operated on sidewalks.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.711)
   (d)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a tree lawn area or the curb of a
street, except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway or when
otherwise lawfully authorized.
(Ord. 2004-102, passed 8-9-2004)
§ 331.38 STOPPING FOR SCHOOL BUS; ACTUATING VISUAL SIGNALS; DISCHARGING
CHILDREN.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until the
school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed. It is no defense to a charge under this division that the school bus
involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically extended stop
warning sign as required by division (b) of this section.
   (b)   Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual signals
meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.771 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce, which shall be
actuated by the driver of the bus whenever but only whenever the bus is stopped
or stopping on the roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school
children, persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental
health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or children attending
programs offered by head start agencies. A school bus driver shall not actuate
the visual signals or the stop warning sign in designated school bus loading
areas where the bus is entirely off the roadway or at school buildings when
children or persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental
health and county boards of developmental disabilities are loading or unloading
at curbside or at buildings when children attending programs offered by head
start agencies are loading or unloading at curbside. The visual signals and
stop warning sign shall be synchronized or otherwise operated as required by
the Ohio Administrative Code.
   (c)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with division (a) above.
   (d)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, and children attending programs offered
by head start agencies on their residence side of the highway.
   (e)   No school bus driver shall start the driver’s bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child’s or person’s residence side of the road.
   (f)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section may be fined an
amount not to exceed $500. A person who is issued a citation for a violation of
division (a) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty
and waive the person’s right to contest the citation in a trial but instead
must appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
      (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court or Mayor may impose upon an offender who violates this section a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). When a
license is suspended under this section, the court or Mayor shall cause the
offender to deliver the license to the court, and the court or Clerk of the
Court immediately shall forward the license to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
together with notice of the court’s action.
   (g)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   HEAD START AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3301.32.
      (2)   SCHOOL BUS. As used in relation to children who attend a program
offered by a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a
head start agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign
of a type approved by the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce, is
painted the color and displays the markings described in R.C. § 4511.77, and is
equipped with amber and red visual signals meeting the requirements of R.C. §
4511.77, irrespective of whether or not the bus has 15 or more children aboard
at any time. The term does not include a van owned and operated by a head start
agency, irrespective of its color, lights or markings.
(R.C. § 4511.75)
§ 331.39 DRIVING ACROSS GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (a)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad if any of the following circumstances
exist at the crossing:
         A.   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train.
         B.   A crossing gate is lowered.
         C.   A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach
or passage of a train.
         D.   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains,
notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed.
         E.   An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible, and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing.
         F.   There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely negotiate
the crossing.
      (2)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances described
in divisions (a)(1)A. through (a)(1)F. of this section exist at the crossing.
   (b)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed, or is being opened or closed unless the person is signaled by a law
enforcement officer or flagperson that it is permissible to do so.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.62)
§ 331.40 STOPPING AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (a)   (1)   Except as provided in division (a)(2) of this section, the
operator of any bus, any school vehicle, or any vehicle transporting material
required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. Parts 100 to 185, before crossing at
grade any track of a railroad, shall stop the vehicle, and while so stopped,
shall listen through an open door or open window, and look in both directions
along the track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the
approach of a train, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care after
stopping, looking and listening as required by this section. Upon proceeding,
the operator of such a vehicle shall cross only in a gear that will ensure
there will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing the crossing,
and shall not shift gears while crossing the tracks.
      (2)   Division (a) of this section does not apply at grade crossings when
any local authority has filed an application with the Public Utilities
Commission requesting the approval of an exempt crossing, and the Public
Utilities Commission has authorized and approved an exempt crossing as provided
in R.C. § 4511.63(B).
      (3)   As used in division (a) of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         A.   BUS. Any vehicle originally designed by its manufacturer to
transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver, or carries 16 or more
passengers, including the driver.
         B.   EXEMPT CROSSING. A highway rail grade crossing authorized and
approved by the Public Utilities Commission under R.C. § 4511.63(B) at which
vehicles may cross without making the stop otherwise required by this section.
         C.   SCHOOL VEHICLE. Any vehicle used for the transportation of pupils
to and from a school or school-related function if the vehicle is owned or
operated by, or operated under contract with, a public or nonpublic school.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of
division (a) of this section or R.C. § 4511.63, § 4511.76, § 4511.761, §
4511.762, § 4511.764, § 4511.77 or § 4511.79, or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of those sections, whoever violates division
(a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.63)
   (b)   (1)   As used in this section, ACTIVE GRADE CROSSING WARNING DEVICE
means signs, signals, gates, or other protective devices erected or installed
at a public highway-railway crossing at common grade and activated by an
electrical circuit.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities, with the
approval of the Department, may designate dangerous highway crossings over
railroad tracks and erect stop signs thereat.
      (3)   A.   The Department and local authorities shall erect stop signs at
a railroad highway grade crossing in either of the following circumstances:
            1.   New warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning
devices are being installed at the grade crossing, and railroad crossbucks were
the only warning devices at the grade crossing prior to the installation of the
new warning devices.
            2.   The grade crossing is constructed after July 1, 2013, and only
warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning devices are
installed at the grade crossing.
         B.   Division (b)(3)A. of this section does not apply to a railroad
            highway grade crossing that the Director of Transportation has
exempted from that division because of traffic flow or other considerations or
factors.
      (4)   When stop signs are erected pursuant to division (b)(2) or (b)(3)
of this section, the operator of any vehicle shall stop within 50, but not less
than 15, feet from the nearest rail of the railroad tracks and shall exercise
due care before proceeding across such grade crossing.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (b)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (6)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.61)
§ 331.41 QUIET ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a zone of quiet, as
provided for under §
511.07, no person operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound
the horn or other warning device of the vehicle except in an emergency.
(Ord. 90-105, passed 10-8-1990)
§ 331.42 SHORTCUTTING, EVADING TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL OR DEVICE.
   (a)   No person shall operate a vehicle across public or private property
marked with signs “No Through Traffic” or words of similar import for the
purpose of passing from one roadway to another.
   (b)   No person shall operate a vehicle across public or private property
for the purpose of avoiding compliance with a traffic-control device.
   (c)   It shall be prima-facie evidence of a violation of this section for
the operator of a vehicle to cross public or private property as provided
herein without using the service of such property, stopping the engine or both.
§ 331.43 LITTERING FROM MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (a)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road or highway, except into a litter receptacle in
a manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (b)   No operator of a motor vehicle in operation upon any street, road or
highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded or deposited from
the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents
its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (c)   As used in this section, LITTER means garbage, trash, waste, rubbish,
ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture,
glass or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (a) or (b) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.82)
§ 331.44 USE OF EARPHONES WHILE DRIVING.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   EARPHONES. Any device that covers all or a portion of both ears and
that does either of the following:
         A.   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         B.   Provides hearing protection.
         EARPHONES does not include speakers or other listening devices that
are built into protective headgear.
      (2)   EARPLUGS. Any device that can be inserted into one or both ears and
that does either of the following:
         A.   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         B.   Provides hearing protection.
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears.
   (c)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire Department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person engaged in the operation of equipment for use in the
maintenance or repair of any highway;
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment;
      (6)   Any person wearing earphones or earplugs for hearing protection
while operating a motorcycle.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.84)
§ 331.45 STOP SIGNS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (a)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may erect stop signs at
places where the road or driveway intersects with another private road or
driveway in the residential area, in compliance with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The stop sign is sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person and meets the specifications of and is placed in accordance
with the Manual adopted by the Department of Transportation pursuant to R.C. §
4511.09.
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, stop signs have been posted
and must be obeyed, and the signs are enforceable by law enforcement officers
under state law. The sign required by this division, where appropriate, may be
incorporated with the sign required by R.C. § 4511.211(A)(2), or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (b)   R.C. §§ 4511.43(A) and 4511.46, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, shall be deemed to apply to the driver of a vehicle on a
private road or driveway where a stop sign is placed in accordance with
division (a) of this section and to a pedestrian crossing such a road or
driveway at an intersection where a stop sign is in place.
   (c)   When a stop sign is placed in accordance with division (a) of this
section, any law enforcement officer may apprehend a person found violating the
stop sign and may stop and charge the person with violating the stop sign.
   (d)   As used in this section, and for the purpose of applying R.C. §§
4511.43(A) and 4511.46, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, to
conduct under this section, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   INTERSECTION.
         A.   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two private roads or driveways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different private roads or driveways joining at any other angle may come
in conflict.
         B.   Where a private road or driveway includes two roadways 30 feet or
more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of the private roads or
driveways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      (2)   OWNER and PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING
UNITS. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      (3)   ROADWAY. That portion of a private road or driveway improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder.
If a private road or driveway includes two or more separate roadways, the term
ROADWAY means any such roadway separately but not all such roadways
collectively.
   (e)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.432)
§ 331.46 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (a)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller or any equipment or structure having a normal operating
speed of six or less miles per hour or a vertical body or load clearance of
less than nine inches above the level surface of a roadway, upon or across any
tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with divisions (a)
(1) and (a)(2) of this section.
      (1)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same, and while stopped, the
person shall listen and look in both directions along the track for any
approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall
proceed only upon exercising due care.
      (2)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal, crossing gates or a flagperson, or otherwise of the immediate approach
of a railroad train or car.
   (b)   If the normal sustained speed of the vehicle, equipment or structure
is not more than three miles per hour, the person owning, operating or moving
the same shall also give notice of the intended crossing to a station agent or
superintendent of the railroad, and a reasonable time shall be given to the
railroad to provide proper protection for the crossing. Where the vehicles or
equipment are being used in constructing or repairing a section of highway
lying on both sides of a railroad grade crossing, and in this construction or
repair it is necessary to repeatedly move the vehicles or equipment over the
crossing, one daily notice specifying when the work will start and stating the
hours during which it will be prosecuted is sufficient.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.64)
§ 331.47 TEXTING WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or
property open to the public for vehicular traffic while using, holding, or
physically supporting with any part of the person’s body an electronic wireless
communications device.
   (b)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device to make
contact, for emergency purposes, with a law enforcement agency, hospital or
health care provider, fire department, or other similar emergency agency or
entity;
      (2)   A person driving a public safety vehicle while using an electronic
wireless communications device in the course of the person’s duties;
      (3)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device when
the person’s motor vehicle is in a stationary position and is outside a lane of
travel, at a traffic control signal that is currently directing traffic to
stop, or parked on a road or highway due to an emergency or road closure;
      (4)   A person using and holding an electronic wireless communications
device directly near the person’s ear for the purpose of making, receiving, or
conducting a telephone call, provided that the person does not manually enter
letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
      (5)   A person receiving wireless messages on an electronic wireless
communications device regarding the operation or navigation of a motor vehicle;
safety-related information, including emergency, traffic, or weather alerts; or
data used primarily by the motor vehicle, provided that the person does not
hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (6)   A person using the speaker phone function of the electronic
wireless communications device, provided that the person does not hold or
support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (7)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
navigation purposes, provided that the person does not do either of the
following during the use:
         A.   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         B.   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (8)   A person using a feature or function of the electronic wireless
communications device with a single touch or single swipe, provided that the
person does not do either of the following during the use:
         A.   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         B.   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (9)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data;
      (10)   person is acting in response to an emergency, power outage, or
circumstance that affects the health or safety of individuals;
      (11)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device in
conjunction with a voice-operated or hands-free feature or function of the
vehicle or of the device without the use of either hand except to activate,
deactivate, or initiate the feature or function with a single touch or swipe,
provided the person does not hold or support the device with any part of the
person’s body;
      (12)   A person using technology that physically or electronically
integrates the device into the motor vehicle, provided that the person does not
do either of the following during the use:
         A.   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         B.   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body.
      (13)   A person storing an electronic wireless communications device in a
holster, harness, or article of clothing on the person’s body.
   (c)   If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of division (a) of this section, the officer shall do
both of the following:
      (1)   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation, or summons to the
officer’s law enforcement agency;
      (2)   Ensure that such report indicates the offender’s race.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle while using an electronic wireless communication device, an
unclassified misdemeanor, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (d)(1)
to (d)(5) of this section.
      (1)   The offender shall be fined, and is subject to a suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege, as follows:
         A.   Except as provided in divisions (d)(1)B., (d)(1)C., (d)(1)D., and
(d)(2) of this section, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine of not
more than $150.
         B.   If, within two years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one prior violation of this section, R.C. §
4511.204, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court shall
impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $250.
         C.   If, within two years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more prior violations of this section,
R.C. § 4511.204, or a substantially equivalent or municipal ordinance, the
court shall impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $500. The court
also may impose a suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege for 90 days.
         D.   Notwithstanding divisions (d)(1)A. to (d)(1)C. of this section,
if the offender was operating the motor vehicle at the time of the violation in
a construction zone where a sign was posted in accordance with R.C. § 4511.98,
the court, in addition to all other penalties provided by law, shall impose
upon the offender a fine of two times the amount imposed for the violation
under division (d)(1)A., (d)(1)B., or (d)(1)C. of this section, as applicable.
      (2)   If the offender is in the category of offenders to whom division
(d)(1)A. of this section applies, in lieu of payment of the fine of $150 under
division (d)(1)A. of this section and the assessment of points under division
(d)(4) of this section, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted
driving safety course, as described in R.C. § 4511.991. If the offender attends
and successfully completes the course, the offender shall be issued written
evidence that the offender successfully completed the course. The offender
shall not be required to pay the fine and shall not have the points assessed
against that offender’s driver’s license if the offender submits the written
evidence to the court within 90 days of the violation of division (a) of this
section. However, successful completion of the course does not result in a
dismissal of the charges for the violation, and the violation is a prior
offense under divisions (d)(1)B. and (d)(1)C. of this section if the offender
commits a subsequent violation or violations of division (a) of this section
within two years of the offense for which the course was completed. This
division does not apply with respect to any offender in the category of
offenders to whom division (d)(1)B., (d)(1)C., or (d)(1)D. of this section
applies.
      (3)   The court may impose any other penalty authorized under R.C. §§
2929.21 to 2929.28. However, the court shall not impose a fine or a suspension
not otherwise specified in division (d)(1) of this section. The court also
shall not impose a jail term or community residential sanction.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (d)(2) of this section, points shall
be assessed for a violation of division (a) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
   (e)   A prosecution for an offense in violation of this section does not
preclude a prosecution for an offense in violation of R.C. § 4511.204 based on
the same conduct. However, the two offenses are allied offenses of similar
import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (f)   (1)   A law enforcement officer does not have probable cause and shall
not stop the operator of a motor vehicle for purposes of enforcing this section
unless the officer visually observes the operator using, holding, or physically
supporting with any part of the person’s body the electronic wireless
communications device.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer who stops the operator of a motor vehicle
for a violation of division (a) of this section shall inform the operator that
the operator may decline a search of the operator’s electronic wireless
communications device. The officer shall not do any of the following:
         A.   Access the device without a warrant, unless the operator
voluntarily and unequivocally gives consent for the officer to access the
device;
         B.   Confiscate the device while awaiting the issuance of a warrant to
access the device;
         C.   Obtain consent from the operator to access the device through
coercion or any other improper means. Any consent by the operator to access the
device shall be voluntary and unequivocal before the officer may access the
device without a warrant.
   (g)   As used in this section:
      (1)   ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE.
         A.   Includes any of the following:
            1.   A wireless telephone;
            2.   A text- messaging device;
            3.   A personal digital assistant;
            4.   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
            5.   Any device capable of displaying a video, movie,
               broadcast television image, or visual image;
            6.   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate text, initiate or receive communication, or
exchange information or data.
         B.   An ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE does not include a
two-way radio transmitter or receiver used by a person who is licensed by the
federal communications commission to participate in the amateur radio service.
      (2)   UTILITY. An entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D), (E),
or (G).
      (3)   UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE. A vehicle owned or operated by a utility.
      (4)   VOICE-OPERATED OR HANDS-FREE FEATURE OR FUNCTION. A feature or
function that allows a person to use an electronic wireless communications
device without the use of either hand, except to activate, deactivate, or
initiate the feature or function with a single touch or single swipe.
(R.C. § 4511.204)
Statutory reference:
   No preemption for local regulations imposing greater penalties, see R.C. §
4511.204(E)
§ 331.48 USE OF ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES BY MINORS OR
PROBATIONARY DRIVERS WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the
age of 18 years and no holder of a probationary driver's license shall drive a
motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (b)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or other similar
emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and the motor vehicle is outside a
lane of travel;
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (c)   (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (a) of this section shall be fined $150. In addition, the
court shall impose a class seven suspension of the offender's driver's license
or permit for a definite period of 60 days.
      (2)   If the person previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or
a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section, whoever violates
this section shall be fined $300. In addition, the court shall impose a class
seven suspension of the person's driver's license or permit for a definite
period of one year.
   (d)   The filing of a sworn complaint against a person for a violation of
this section does not preclude the filing of a sworn complaint for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct. However, if a person is adjudicated a
delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section
and is also adjudicated a delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a
violation of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct, the two offenses are allied
offenses of similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (e)   As used in this section, ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE
includes any of the following:
      (1)   A wireless telephone;
      (2)   A personal digital assistant;
      (3)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
      (4)   A text-messaging device;
      (5)   Any other substantially similar electronic wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate via voice, image, or written word.
(R.C. § 4511.205)
§ 331.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:  
   See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 333: O.V.I.; WILLFUL MISCONDUCT; SPEED
Section
333.01   Driving or physical control of vehicle while under the influence of
alcohol or drugs
333.011   Immobilizing or disabling device violation
333.02   Reckless operation on streets, public or private property
333.03   Maximum speed limits; assured clear distance ahead
333.031   Driving while approaching stationary public safety vehicle and
certain other vehicles with flashing lights
333.04   Stopping vehicle; slow speed; posted minimum speeds
333.05   Speed limitations over bridges
333.06   Speed exceptions for emergency or safety vehicles
333.07   Street racing prohibited
333.08   Reasonable control
333.09   Reserved
333.10   Operation in violation of immobilization order
333.11   Deposit of $25 of fine for violating O.V.I. ordinance into Indigent
Drivers Alcohol Treatment Fund; immobilization or forfeiture orders based on
prior convictions
333.12   Speed limits on private roads and driveways
333.13   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or
utility vehicles
333.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Failure to control vehicle, see §
331.34
   Walking on highway while under the influence, see §
371.09
Statutory reference:
   Alcohol defined, see R.C. § 4301.01(B)(1)
   Alteration of prima-facie speed limits, see R.C. §§ 4511.21, 4511.22(B),
4511.23
   Drug of abuse defined, see R.C. § 3719.011(A)
§ 333.01 DRIVING OR PHYSICAL CONTROL OF VEHICLE WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF
ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   (a)   Driving under the influence.
      (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within this municipality, if,
at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
         A.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
a combination of them.
         B.   The person has a concentration of 0.08% or more but less than
0.17% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         C.   The person has a concentration of 0.096% or more but less than
0.204% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
         D.   The person has a concentration of 0.08 grams or more but less
than 0.17 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         E.   The person has a concentration of 0.11 grams or more but less
than 0.238 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s
urine.
         F.   The person has a concentration of 0.17% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         G.   The person has a concentration of 0.204% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
         H   The person has a concentration of 0.17 grams or more by weight of
alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         I.   The person has a concentration of 0.238 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
         J.   Except as provided in division (k) of this section, the person
has a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or
metabolites of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6- monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma.
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least ten nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma.
            7.   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s
urine of at least ten nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least two nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               a.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or a combination of them, and the person has a concentration of
marihuana metabolite in the person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of
marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a
concentration of marihuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least five nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
               b.   The person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in
the person’s urine of at least 35 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite
in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms
of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of
the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of
methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            11.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
R.C. § 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating
any vehicle, streetcar, or trackless trolley within this state, the rule is in
effect, and the person has a concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A
of at least that amount so specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the
person’s whole blood, or in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within 20 years of the conduct described in division
(a)(2)A. of this section, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
a violation of this division or a substantially equivalent State law or
municipal ordinance, division (a)(1) of this section or a substantially
equivalent State law or municipal ordinance, or shall do both of the following:
         A.   Operate any vehicle within this municipality while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         B.   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in division (a)(2)A. of this section, being asked by a law
enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and being advised by the
officer in accordance with R.C. § 4511.192 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance of the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission
to the test or tests, refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (b)   Underage alcohol consumption. No person under 21 years of age shall
operate any vehicle within this municipality if, at the time of the operation,
any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02% but less than
0.08% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood;
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.03% but less than
0.096% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma;
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02 grams but less than
0.08 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath;
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.028 grams but less
than 0.11 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (c)   Prosecution; limitation on convictions. In any proceeding arising out
of one incident, a person may be charged with a violation of division (a)(1)A.
or (a)(2) and a violation of division (b)(1), (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section,
but the person may not be convicted of more than one violation of these
divisions.
   (d)   Evidence; tests.
      (1)   A.   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (a)(1)A. of this section or for an equivalent offense
that is vehicle-related, the result of any test of any blood or urine withdrawn
and analyzed at any health care provider, as defined in R.C. § 2317.02, may be
admitted with expert testimony to be considered with any other relevant and
competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant.
         B.   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of division (a) or
(b) of this section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, the
court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse,
controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled substance or a combination
of them in the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine or
other bodily substance at the time of the alleged violation as shown by
chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn within three hours of the time of
the alleged violation. The three-hour time limit specified in this division
regarding the admission of evidence does not extend or affect the two-hour time
limit specified in R.C. § 4511.192(A) as the maximum period of time during
which a person may consent to a chemical test or tests as described in that
section. The court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of
abuse, or a combination of them as described in this division when a person
submits to a blood test at the request of a law enforcement officer under R.C.
§ 4511.191 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a blood or
urine sample is obtained pursuant to a search warrant. Only a physician, a
registered nurse, an emergency medical technician- intermediate, an emergency
medical technician-paramedic, or a qualified technician, chemist or
phlebotomist shall withdraw a blood sample for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the whole blood, blood serum or blood plasma. This
limitation does not apply to the taking of breath or urine specimens. A person
authorized to withdraw blood under this division may refuse to withdraw blood
under this division, if in that person’s opinion, the physical welfare of the
person would be endangered by the withdrawing of blood. The bodily substance
withdrawn under this division (d)(1)B. shall be analyzed in accordance with
methods approved by the Director of Health by an individual possessing a valid
permit issued by the Director pursuant to R.C. § 3701.143.
         C.   As used in division (d)(1)B. of this section, EMERGENCY MEDICAL
TECHNICIAN- INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (a) of this
section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle- related, if there was at
the time the bodily substance was withdrawn a concentration of less than the
applicable concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (a)(1)B., (a)(1)C.,
(a)(1)D. and (a)(1)E. of this section or less than the applicable concentration
of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled
substance specified for a violation of division (a)(1)J. of this section, that
fact may be considered with other competent evidence in determining the guilt
or innocence of the defendant. This division does not limit or affect a
criminal prosecution for a violation of division (b) of this section.
      (3)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney,
immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis. If the chemical
test was obtained pursuant to division (d)(1)B. of this section, the person
tested may have a physician, a registered nurse or a qualified technician,
chemist or phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing administer a chemical test
or tests, at the person’s expense, in addition to any administered at the
request of a law enforcement officer. If the person was under arrest as
described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the arresting officer shall advise the
person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent
chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. If the person was under arrest
other than described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the form to be read to the
person to be tested, as required under division (g) of this section, shall
state that the person may have an independent test performed at the person’s
expense. The failure or inability to obtain an additional chemical test by a
person shall not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the chemical
test or tests taken at the request of a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   A.   As used in division (d)(4)B. and (d)(4)C. of this section,
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION means the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration established as an administration of the United
States Department of Transportation under 96 Stat. 2415 (1983), 49 U.S.C. §
105.
         B.   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (a) or (b) of this section, of a municipal ordinance
relating to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, or of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine, if a law enforcement officer has
administered a field sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in
the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible and generally accepted field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including,
but not limited to, any testing standards then in effect that were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (d)(4)B.1. or (d)(4)B.2. of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
         C.   Division (d)(4)B. of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (d)(4)B. of this section.
   (e)   Laboratory report.
      (1)   Subject to division (e)(3) of this section, in any criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (a)(1)B.,
(a)(1)C., (a)(1)D., (a)(1)E., (a)(1)F., (a)(1)G., (a)(1)H., (a)(1)I. or (a)
(1)J. or (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3) or (b)(4) of this section or for an equivalent
offense that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions, a
laboratory report from any laboratory personnel issued a permit by the
Department of Health authorizing an analysis as described in this division that
contains an analysis of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine
or other bodily substance tested and that contains all of the information
specified in this division shall be admitted as prima facie evidence of the
information and statements that the report contains. The laboratory report
shall contain all of the following:
         A.   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         B.   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them that was found;
         C.   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director or a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties;
         D.   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (e)(1) of this section
is not admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any proceeding,
other than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless the
prosecutor has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or, if
the defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (e)(1) of this section
shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity or amount of any
substance if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains
or the defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (f)   Limitation of liability.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, any physician,
registered nurse, emergency medical technician-intermediate, emergency medical
technician-paramedic, or qualified technician, chemist or phlebotomist who
withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19, §
4511.191 or § 4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid station or clinic at which
blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19, §
4511.191 or § 4511.192, is immune from criminal liability and civil liability
based upon a claim of assault and battery or any other claim that is not a
claim of malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing blood from the
person. The immunity provided in this division also extends to an emergency
medical service organization that employs an emergency medical technician-
intermediate or emergency medical technician-paramedic who withdraws blood
under this section. The immunity provided in this division is not available to
a person who withdraws blood if the person engages in willful or wanton
misconduct.
(R.C. § 4511.19(A) - (F))
      (2)   As used in division (f)(1), EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-
INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4765.01.
   (g)   Implied consent.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (g), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         A.   ALCOHOL MONITORING DEVICE. Any device that provides for
continuous alcohol monitoring, any ignition interlock device, any immobilizing
or disabling device other than an ignition interlock device that is constantly
available to monitor the concentration of alcohol in a person’s system, or any
other device that provides for the automatic testing and periodic reporting of
alcohol consumption by a person and that a court orders a person to use as a
sanction imposed as a result of the person’s conviction of or plea of guilty to
an offense.
         B.   COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 5119.01.
         C.   PHYSICAL CONTROL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.194.
      (2)   Implied consent to chemical tests. Any person who operates a
vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property used by the public for
vehicular travel or parking within this municipality or who is in physical
control of a vehicle shall be deemed to have given consent to a chemical test
or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a
controlled substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine if arrested for a violation of division (a),
(b) or (o) of this section, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), § 4511.194 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or any other municipal O.V.I.
ordinance.
      (3)   Tests at request of law enforcement agent. The chemical test or
tests under division (g)(2) of this section shall be administered at the
request of a law enforcement officer having reasonable grounds to believe the
person was operating or in physical control of a vehicle in violation of a
division, section or ordinance identified in division (g)(2) of this section.
The law enforcement agency by which the officer is employed shall designate
which of the tests shall be administered.
      (4)   Effect of death or unconsciousness. Any person who is dead or
unconscious, or who otherwise is in a condition rendering the person incapable
of refusal, shall be deemed to have consented as provided in division (g)(2) of
this section and the test or tests may be administered, subject to R.C. §§
313.12 to 313.16.
      (5)   Chemical tests.
         A.   If a law enforcement officer arrests a person for a violation of
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal O.V.I. ordinance and if the person if
convicted would be required to be sentenced under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c), (G)
(1)(d) or (G)(1)(e), the law enforcement officer shall request the person to
submit, and the person shall submit, to a chemical test or tests of the
person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine for the purpose
of determining the alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of
a controlled substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine. A law enforcement officer who makes a
request pursuant to this division that a person submit to a chemical test or
tests is not required to advise the person of the consequences of submitting
to, or refusing to submit to, the test or tests and is not required to give the
person the form described in division (g)(7) of this section, but the officer
shall advise the person at the time of the arrest that if the person refuses to
take a chemical test the officer may employ whatever reasonable means are
necessary to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma. The officer shall also advise the person
at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent chemical test
taken at the person’s own expense. Divisions (g)(3) and (g)(4) of this section
apply to the administration of a chemical test or tests pursuant to this
division.
         B.   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test upon a request
made pursuant to division (g)(5)A. of this section, the law enforcement officer
who made the request may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary to
ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma. A law enforcement officer who acts pursuant to this
division to ensure that a person submits to a chemical test of the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma is immune from criminal and civil
liability based upon a claim for assault and battery or any other claim for the
acts, unless the officer so acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a
wanton or reckless manner.
(R.C. § 4511.191(A))
      (6)   Advice required. Except as provided in division (g)(5) of this
section, the arresting law enforcement officer shall give advice in accordance
with this division to any person under arrest for a violation of division (a),
(b) or (o) of this section, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or any other municipal O.V.I.
ordinance. The officer shall give that advice in a written form that contains
the information described in division (g)(7) of this section and shall read the
advice to the person. The form shall contain a statement that the form was
shown to the person under arrest and read to the person by the arresting
officer. One or more persons shall witness the arresting officer’s reading of
the form, and the witnesses shall certify to this fact by signing the form. The
person must submit to the chemical test or tests, subsequent to the request of
the arresting officer, within two hours of the time of the alleged violation
and, if the person does not submit to the test or tests within that two-hour
time limit, the failure to submit automatically constitutes a refusal to submit
to the test or tests.
      (7)   Certification of arrest. Except as provided in division (g)(5) of
this section, if a person is under arrest as described in division (g)(6) of
this section, before the person may be requested to submit to a chemical test
or tests to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance,
metabolite of a controlled substance or combination content of the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine, the arresting officer
shall read the following form to the person:
      “You now are under arrest for (specifically state the offense under state
law or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for which the person was
arrested – operating a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, a drug, or a
combination of them; operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance;
operating a vehicle after underage alcohol consumption; or having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence).”
      “If you refuse to take any chemical test required by law, your Ohio
driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay a
fee to have the privileges reinstated. If you have a prior conviction of O.V.I.
or operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance under state or
municipal law within the preceding 20 years, you are now under arrest for state
O.V.I., and, if you refuse to take a chemical test, you will face increased
penalties if you subsequently are convicted of the state O.V.I.
      (Read this part unless the person is under arrest for solely having
physical control of a vehicle while under the influence.) “If you take any
chemical test required by law and are found to be at or over the prohibited
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in your whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as set
by law, your Ohio driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you
will have to pay a fee to have the privileges reinstated.
      “If you take a chemical test, you may have an independent chemical test
taken at your own expense.”
      (8)   Actions required by arresting officer. If the arresting law
enforcement officer does not ask a person under arrest as described in division
(g)(5) of this section or division (g)(6) of this section to submit to a
chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this section, the arresting
officer shall seize the Ohio or out-of-state driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit of the person and immediately forward it to the court in
which the arrested person is to appear on the charge. If the arrested person is
not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the arrest,
and, upon the surrender, the agency immediately shall forward the license or
permit to the court in which the person is to appear on the charge. Upon
receipt of the license or permit, the court shall retain it pending the
arrested person’s initial appearance and any action taken under R.C. §
4511.196.
      (9)   Duties of officer.
         A.   If a law enforcement officer asks a person under arrest as
described in division (g)(5) of this section to submit to a chemical test or
tests under that division and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, or if a law enforcement
officer asks a person under arrest as described in division (g)(6) of this
section to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this
section, if the officer advises the person in accordance with this section of
the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission, and if either the
person refuses to submit to the test or tests or, unless the arrest was for a
violation of division (o) of this section, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the person submits to the test or tests and the
test results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine at the time of the alleged
offense, the arresting officer shall do all of the following:
            1.   On behalf of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, notify the
person that, independent of any penalties or sanctions imposed upon the person,
the person’s Ohio driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is suspended immediately, that the suspension
will last at least until the person’s initial appearance on the charge, which
will be held within five days after the date of the person’s arrest or the
issuance of a citation to the person, and that the person may appeal the
suspension at the initial appearance or during the period of time ending 30
days after that initial appearance;
            2.   Seize the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of
the person and immediately forward it to the Registrar. If the arrested person
is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the person is
given notice of the suspension, and, upon the surrender, the officer’s
employing agency immediately shall forward the license or permit to the
Registrar;
            3.   Verify the person’s current residence and, if it differs from
that on the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, notify
the Registrar of the change;
            4.   Send to the Registrar, within 48 hours after the arrest of the
person, a sworn report that includes all of the following statements:
               a.   That the officer had reasonable grounds to believe that, at
the time of the arrest, the arrested person was operating a vehicle in
violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or a municipal O.V.I. ordinance or for
being in physical control of a stationary vehicle in violation of R.C. §
4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
               b.   That the person was arrested and charged with a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal O.V.I. ordinance;
               c.   Unless division (g)(9)A.4.e. of this section applies, that
the officer asked the person to take the designated chemical test or tests,
advised the person in accordance with this section of the consequences of
submitting to, or refusing to take, the test or tests, and gave the person the
form described in division (g)(7) of this section;
               d.   Unless division (g)(9)A.4.e. of this section applies, that
either the person refused to submit to the chemical test or tests or, unless
the arrest was for a violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the person submitted to the chemical test or tests and the
test results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine at the time of the alleged
offense;
               e.   If the person was under arrest as described in division (g)
(5) of this section and the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance
with that division, that the person was under arrest as described in that
division, that the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance with
that division, and that test results indicated a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time
of the alleged offense.
         B.   Division (g)(9)A. of this section does not apply to a person who
is arrested for a violation of division (o) of this section, R.C. § 4511.194 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or any other substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, who is asked by a law enforcement officer to
submit to a chemical test or tests under this section, and who submits to the
test or tests, regardless of the amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or
a metabolite of a controlled substance that the test results indicate is
present in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine.
      (10)   Sworn report of arresting officer.
         A.   The arresting officer shall give the officer’s sworn report that
is completed under this section to the arrested person at the time of the
arrest, or the Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall send the report to the person
by regular first-class mail as soon as possible after receipt of the report,
but not later than 14 days after receipt of it. An arresting officer may give
an unsworn report to the arrested person at the time of the arrest, provided
the report is complete when given to the arrested person and subsequently is
sworn to by the arresting officer. As soon as possible, but not later than 48
hours after the arrest of the person, the arresting officer shall send a copy
of the sworn report to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on
the charge for which the person was arrested.
         B.   The sworn report of an arresting officer completed under this
section is prima facie proof of the information and statements that it
contains. It shall be admitted and considered as prima facie proof of the
information and statements that it contains in any appeal under R.C. § 4511.197
relative to any suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege that results from the
arrest covered by the report.
(R.C. § 4511.192)
      (11)   Suspension effective immediately. A suspension of a person’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege under this section for the time described in R.C. § 4511.191(B) or
(C) is effective immediately from the time at which the arresting officer
serves the notice of suspension upon the arrested person. Any subsequent
finding that the person is not guilty of the charge that resulted in the
person’s being requested to take the chemical test or tests under division (g)
(1) through (g)(5) of this section does not affect the suspension.
   (12)   Initial appearance. If a person arrested for operating a vehicle in
violation of division (a) or (b) of this section, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), or
any other municipal O.V.I. ordinance, or for being in physical control of a
vehicle in violation of division (o) of this section or R.C. § 4511.194 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, regardless of whether the
person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege is or is not suspended under R.C. § 4511.191(B) or (C) or
R.C. Chapter 4510, the person’s initial appearance on the charge resulting from
the arrest shall be held within five days of the person’s arrest or the
issuance of the citation to him or her, subject to any continuance granted by
the court pursuant to R.C. § 4511.197 regarding the issues specified in that
section.
(R.C. § 4511.191(D))
   (h)   Penalty for driving under the influence.
      (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of divisions (a)(1)A. through (a)
(1)I. or (a)(2) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them. Whoever
violates division (a)(1)J. of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle
while under the influence of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance. The court shall sentence the offender for
either offense under R.C. Chapter 2929, except as otherwise authorized or
required by divisions (h)(1)A. through (h)(1)E. of this section:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (h)(1)B., (h)(1)C., (h)
(1)D. or (h)(1)E. of this section, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree and the court shall sentence the offender to all of the
penalties and sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a)(i) to (G)(1)(a)
(iv).
         B.   Except as otherwise provided in division (h)(1)E. of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of division (a) of this
section, or one other equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and
sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) to (G)(1)(b)(v).
         C.   Except as otherwise provided in division (h)(1)E. of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (a) of this
section or other equivalent offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions provided in
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c)(i) to (G)(1)(c)(vi).
         D.   Except as otherwise provided in division (h)(1)E. of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (a) of
this section or other equivalent offenses or an offender who, within 20 years
of the offense, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to five or
more violations of that nature, or an offender who previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a specification of the type described in R.C.
§ 2941.1413, is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
         E.   An offender who previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) that was a felony, regardless of
when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   An offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (a) of this section and who subsequently seeks reinstatement of the
driver’s or occupational driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege suspended under this section or R.C. § 4511.19 as a result of the
conviction or guilty plea shall pay a reinstatement fee as provided in R.C. §
4511.191(F)(2).
      (3)   A.   If an offender is sentenced to a jail term under R.C. §
4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) or (G)(1)(b)(ii) or (G)(1)(c)(i) or (G)(1)(c)(ii) and if,
within 60 days of sentencing of the offender, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the term, the offender will not be able
to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing, the court may impose an alternative sentence as specified in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3) that includes a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring,
with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and
continuous alcohol monitoring.
         B.   As an alternative to the mandatory jail terms as required by R.C.
§ 4511.19(G)(1), the court may sentence the offender as provided in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3).
      (4)   If an offender’s driver’s or occupational driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended under division (h) of
this section or R.C. § 4511.19(G) and if R.C. § 4510.13 permits the court to
grant limited driving privileges, the court may grant the limited driving
privileges in accordance with that section. If division (A)(7) of that section
requires the court impose as a condition of the privileges that the offender
must display on the vehicle that is driven subject to the privileges restricted
license plates that are issued under R.C. § 4503.231, except as provided in
division (B) of that section, the court shall impose that condition as one of
the conditions of the limited driving privileges granted to the offender,
except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (5)   Fines imposed under this section for a violation of division (a) of
this section shall be distributed as provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(5).
      (6)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal
forfeiture under division (h)(1)C., (h)(1)D. or (h)(1)E. of this section is
assigned or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in
addition to or independent of any other penalty established by law, the court
may fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of
the National Auto Dealer’s Association. The proceeds of any fine so imposed
shall be distributed in accordance with division (C)(2) of that section.
      (7)   In all cases in which an offender is sentenced under division (h)
of this section, the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, the court, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, may order restitution pursuant to §
501.99(f) or R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for
any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender's operation of the vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under division
(h) of this section.
      (8)   A court may order an offender to reimburse a law enforcement agency
for any costs incurred by the agency with respect to a chemical test or tests
administered to the offender if all of the following apply:
         A.   The offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (a) of this section.
         B.   The test or tests were of the offender’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine.
         C.   The test or tests indicated that the offender had a prohibited
concentration of a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in the offender's whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine at the
time of the offense.
      (9)   As used in division (h) of this section, ELECTRONIC MONITORING has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (i)   Penalty for operating a vehicle after underage alcohol consumption.
Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of operating a motor
vehicle after underage alcohol consumption and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (i)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition to
any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class six
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6). The court may grant
limited driving privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021
and 4510.13. The court may grant unlimited driving privileges with an ignition
interlock device relative to the suspension and may reduce the period of
suspension as authorized under R.C. § 4510.022. If the court grants unlimited
driving privileges under R.C. § 4510.022, the court shall suspend any jail term
imposed under division (i)(1) of this section as required under that section;
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of division (a)
of this section or other equivalent offense or offenses, the offender is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition to any other sanction imposed
for the offense, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4). The court may grant limited driving
privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021 and 4510.13.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an
accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the
offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the
violation of division (b) of this section.
   (j)   Treatment programs.
      (1)   No court shall sentence an offender to an alcohol treatment program
under this section unless the treatment program complies with the minimum
standards for alcohol treatment programs adopted under R.C. Chapter 3793 by the
Director of Alcohol and Drug Addiction Services.
      (2)   An offender who stays in a drivers’ intervention program or in an
alcohol treatment program under an order issued under this section shall pay
the cost of the stay in the program. However, if the court determines that an
offender who stays in an alcohol treatment program under an order issued under
this section is unable to pay the cost of the stay in the program, the court
may order that the cost be paid from the court’s Indigent Drivers’ Alcohol
Treatment Fund.
   (k)   Appeal; effect on suspension.  If a person whose driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege is
suspended under this section or R.C. § 4511.19 files an appeal regarding any
aspect of the person’s trial or sentence, the appeal itself does not stay the
operation of the suspension.
   (l)   Exception; direction of health professional.  Division (a)(1)J. of
this section does not apply to a person who operates a vehicle while the person
has a concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of
a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or
urine that equals or exceeds the amount specified in that division, if both of
the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (m)   Applicability to R.C. § 2923.16(D). The prohibited concentrations of a
controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled substance listed in
division (a)(1)J. of this section also apply in a prosecution of a violation of
R.C. § 2923.16(D) in the same manner as if the offender is being prosecuted for
a prohibited concentration of alcohol.
   (n)   Applicability of terms.  All terms defined in R.C. § 4510.01 apply to
this section. If the meaning of a term defined in R.C. § 4510.01 conflicts with
the meaning of the same term as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or § 4511.01, the
term as defined in R.C. § 4510.01 applies to this section.
(R.C. § 4511.19(G) - (M)) (Ord. 2003-81, passed 6-23-2003)
   (o)   Physical control of vehicle while under the influence.
      (1)   Definition. As used in this division (o), PHYSICAL CONTROL means
being in the driver’s position of the front seat of a vehicle and having
possession of the vehicle’s ignition key or other ignition device.
      (2)   Generally. No person shall be in physical control of a vehicle if,
at the time of the physical control, any of the following apply:
         A.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
a combination of them.
         B.   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine
contains at least the concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (a)(1)B.,
(a)(1)C., (a)(1)D. or (a)(1)E. of this section.
         C.   Except as provided in division (o)(5) of this section, the person
has a concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of
a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or
urine that equals or exceeds the concentration specified in division (a)(1)J.
of this section.
      (3)   Field sobriety test. 
         A.   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of this section, if a law enforcement officer has administered a
field sobriety test to the person in physical control of the vehicle involved
in the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible and generally acceptable field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including,
but not limited to, any testing standards then in effect that were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (o)(3)A.1. or (o)(3)A.2. of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence, and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
         B.   Division (o)(3)A. of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (o)(3)A. of this section.
      (4)   Penalty. Whoever violates this division (o) is guilty of having
physical control of a vehicle while under the influence, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. In addition to other sanctions imposed, the court may impose on
the offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(7).
      (5)   Exception. Division (o)(2)C. of this section does not apply to a
person who is in physical control of a vehicle while the person has a
concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or
urine that equals or exceeds the amount specified in division (a)(1)J. of this
section if both of the following apply:
         A.   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
         B.   The person injected, ingested or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
(R.C. § 4511.194)
   (p)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL SANCTION, CONTINUOUS ALCOHOL MONITORING,
JAIL, MANDATORY PRISON TERM, MANDATORY TERM OF LOCAL INCARCERATION, PRISON TERM
AND SANCTION. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      (2)   DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.01.
      (3)   EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
         A.   A violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A);
         B.   A violation of a municipal O.V.I. ordinance;
         C.   A violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in a case in which the offender was
subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that section;
         D.   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(1) or § 2903.08 or a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those divisions;
         E.   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4), R.C. §
2903.08(A)(2), or former R.C. § 2903.07, or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of those divisions or that former section, in a
case in which a judge or jury as the trier of fact found that the offender was
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         F.   A violation of R.C. § 1547.11(A);
         G.   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine;
         H.   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or 1547.11(A);
         I.   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or 1547.11(A).
      (4)   EQUIVALENT OFFENSE THAT IS VEHICLE-RELATED. An equivalent offense
that is any of the following:
         A.   A violation described in division A., B., C., D. or E. of the
definition for EQUIVALENT OFFENSE provided in this division (p);
         B.   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A);
         C.   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A).
      (5)   MANDATORY JAIL TERM. The mandatory term in jail of three, six, ten,
20, 30 or 60 days that must be imposed under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a), (G)(1)
(b), or (G)(1)(c) upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of
that section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         A.   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
must be served in a jail.
         B.   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced or otherwise modified pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21
through 2929.28 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (6)   MUNICIPAL O.V.I. ORDINANCE and MUNICIPAL O.V.I. OFFENSE. Any
municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or
prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration
of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance
in the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine.
(R.C. § 4511.181)
Statutory reference:
   Continuous alcohol monitoring, see R.C. § 4511.198
   Disposition of fines, immobilization of vehicle and impoundment of license
plates, criminal forfeiture for municipal ordinance conviction, see R.C. §
4511.193
   Effect of refusal to submit to test, seizure of license, suspension periods,
appeal procedures, occupational driving privileges, and Indigent Drivers’
Alcohol Treatment Funds, see R.C. § 4511.191
   Judicial pretrial suspension, initial appearance, see R.C. § 4511.196
   Mayor’s Court to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 1905.201
   Seizure of vehicles upon arrest, see R.C. § 4511.195
   Trial judge to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 4510.05
§ 333.011 IMMOBILIZING OR DISABLING DEVICE VIOLATION.
   (a)   (1)   No offender who has been granted limited or unlimited driving
privileges, during any period that the offender is required to operate only a
motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, shall request
or permit any other person to breathe into the device if it is an ignition
interlock device or another type of device that monitors the concentration of
alcohol in a person’s breath or to otherwise start the motor vehicle equipped
with the device, for the purpose of providing the offender with an operable
motor vehicle.
      (2)   No person shall breathe into an immobilizing or disabling device
that is an ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors
the concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or otherwise start a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, for the purpose of
providing an operable motor vehicle to another person who has been granted
limited or unlimited driving privileges under the condition that the person
operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall tamper with or circumvent the
operation of an immobilizing or disabling device.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an immobilizing or
disabling device violation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4510.44)
§ 333.02 RECKLESS OPERATION ON STREETS, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful
or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private
property other than streets or highways in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property.
      (2)   Division (b)(1) of this section does not apply to the competitive
operation of vehicles on public or private property when the owner of the
property knowingly permits such operation thereon.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates any
provision of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year
of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates any
provision of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any
provision of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. §§ 4511.20, 4511.201)
§ 333.03 MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS; ASSURED CLEAR DISTANCE AHEAD.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface and
width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (b)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director of Transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed
not exceeding the following:
      (1)   A.   Twenty miles per hour in school zones during school recess and
while children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing
hours, and when 20 miles per hour school speed limit signs are erected, except
that on controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by division (b)(4) of this section, and on freeways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by divisions (b)(10) and (b)(11) of this section. The end of every school zone
may be marked by a sign indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section
or in the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control
Devices shall be construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs
equipped with flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the
hours in which the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         B.   As used in this section, SCHOOL means all of the following:
            1.   Any school chartered under R.C. § 3301.16;
            2.   Any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce in compliance with O.A.C.
3301-35-08, a copy of the school’s report for the parents of the school’s
pupils certifying that the school meets state minimum standards for
nonchartered, nontax- supported schools and presents evidence of this filing to
the jurisdiction from which it is requesting the establishment of a school
zone;
            3.   Any special elementary school that in writing requests the
County Engineer to create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon
receipt of such written request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone
at that location by erecting appropriate signs;
            4.   Any preschool education program operated by an educational
service center that is located on a street or highway with a speed limit of 45
miles per hour or more, when the educational service center in writing requests
that the County Engineer create a school zone at the location of that program.
Upon receipt of such a written request, the County Engineer shall create a
school zone at that location by erecting the appropriate signs.
         C.   As used in this section, SCHOOL ZONE means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and that
portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the Director of
Transportation or a request from a County Engineer in the case of a school zone
for a special elementary school, the Director may extend the traditional school
zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (b)(1)C.1. through (b)(1)C.3. below
shall not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction, and are bounded by
whichever of the following distances or combination thereof the Director
approves as most appropriate:
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction of the highway.
         D.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director’s initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (b)
(1)A. and (b)(1)C. of this section.
         E.   As used in this division, CROSSWALK has the meaning given that
term in R.C. § 4511.01(LL)(2).
         F.   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the legislative
authority and upon submission by the municipality of such engineering, traffic
and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school
zone on any portion of a state route lying within the municipality that
includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school
during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured
in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of a crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
in each appropriate direction of the state route.
         G.   As used in this section, SPECIAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL means a school
that meets all of the following:
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source.
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade.
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation.
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood.
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in all other portions of the
municipality, except on state routes outside business districts, through
highways outside business districts and alleys;
(R.C. § 4511.21(A), (B))
      (3)   Thirty-five miles per hour on all state routes or through highways
within the municipality outside business districts, except as provided in
divisions (b)(4) and (b)(6) of this section;
(Ord. 90-2, passed 2-12-1990)
      (3.5)   Forty-five miles per hour on Mason-Montgomery Road south of
Western-Row Road, in both directions;
(Ord. 91-36, passed 4-8-1991)
      (3.6)   Forty-five miles per hour on Kings Island Drive from Western Row
Road to the North Corporation Line.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed 2-14-2005)
      (4)   Fifty miles per hour on controlled-access highways and expressways
within the municipality, except as provided in divisions (b)(12), (b)(13), (b)
(14), (b)(15), and (b)(16) of this section;
      (5)   Fifty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality,
other than highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (b)(8)
of this section, highways as provided in divisions (b)(9) and (b)(10) of this
section, and highways, expressways and freeways as provided in divisions (b)
(12), (b)(13), (b)(14), and (b)(16) of this section;
      (6)   Fifty miles per hour on state routes within the municipality
outside urban districts unless a lower prima facie speed is established as
further provided in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen miles per hour on all alleys within the municipality;
      (8)   Thirty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality
that are within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Thirty-five miles per hour on through highways, except state
routes, that are outside municipal corporations and that are within a national
park with boundaries extending through two or more counties;
      (10)   Sixty miles per hour on two- lane state routes outside municipal
corporations as established by the Director under R.C. § 4511.21(H)(2);
      (11)   Fifty-five miles per hour on freeways with paved shoulders inside
the municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions (b)(14) and (b)
(16) of this section;
      (12)   Sixty miles per hour on rural expressways with traffic control
signals and on all portions of rural divided highways, except as provided in
divisions (b)(13) and (b)(14) of this section;
      (13)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all rural expressways without traffic
control signals;
      (14)   Seventy miles per hour on all rural freeways;
      (15)   Fifty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways in congested areas as determined by the Director and that are
located within a municipal corporation or within an interstate freeway
outerbelt, except as provided in division (b)(16) of this section;
      (16)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways without traffic control signals in urbanized areas.
   (c)   It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (b)(1)A., (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(6),(b)(8) and
(b)(9) of this section or any declared or established pursuant to this section
by the Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person to
exceed any of the speed limitations in division (d) of this section. No person
shall be convicted of more than one violation of this section for the same
conduct, although violations of more than one provision of this section may be
charged in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (d)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 miles per hour, except upon a two-lane
state route as provided in division (b)(10) of this section and upon a highway,
expressway or freeway as provided in divisions (b)(12), (b)(13), (b)(14), and
(b)(16) of this section;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 60 miles per hour upon a two-lane state route
as provided in division (b)(10) of this section and upon a highway as provided
in division (b)(12) of this section;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding 65 miles per hour upon an expressway as
provided in division (b)(13) of this section or upon a freeway as provided in
division (b)(16) of this section, except upon a freeway as provided in division
(b)(14) of this section;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding 70 miles per hour upon a freeway as provided
in division (b)(14) of this section;
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
   (e)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(E), in every charge of violating this
section, the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance
upon division (c) of this section also the speed which division (b)(1)A., (b)
(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(6), (b)(7), (b)(8) or (b)(9) of, or a limit declared
or established pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21 declares is prima
facie lawful at the time and place of the alleged violation, except that in
affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than
will permit the person to bring the vehicle to stop within the assured clear
distance ahead, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (f)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(F), when a speed in excess of both a prima
facie limitation and a limitation in division (d) of this section is alleged,
the defendant shall be charged in a single affidavit, alleging a single act,
with a violation indicated of both division (b)(1)A., (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4),
(b)(6), (b)(7), (b)(8) or (b)(9) of this section, or of a limit declared or
established pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.21 by the Director or local
authorities, and of the limitation in division (d) of this section. If the
court finds a violation of division (b)(1)A., (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(6),
(b)(7), (b)(8) or (b)(9) of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to,
this section or R.C. § 4511.21 has occurred, it shall enter a judgment of
conviction under that division and dismiss the charge under division (d) of
this section. If it finds no violation of division (b)(1)A., (b)(2), (b)(3),
(b)(4), (b)(6), (b)(7), (b)(8) or (b)(9) of, or a limit declared or established
pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21, it shall then consider whether the
evidence supports a conviction under division (d) of this section.
   (g)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(G), points shall be assessed for a
violation of a limitation under division (d) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
(R.C. § 4511.21(C) - (G))
   (h)   Whenever, in accordance with R.C. § 4511.21(H) through (N), the
maximum prima facie speed limitations as established herein have been altered,
either higher or lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been
erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed
limitations set forth on those signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person
to exceed the speed limits posted upon the signs.
   (i)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL BUS. A motor vehicle designed for carrying more than
nine passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      (2)   DIVIDED. Means a roadway having two or more travel lanes for
vehicles moving in opposite directions and that is separated by a median of
more than four feet, excluding turn lanes.
      (3)   INTERSTATE SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
      (4)   NONCOMMERCIAL BUS. Includes but is not limited to a school bus, or
a motor vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated
with a charitable or nonprofit organization.
      (5)   OUTERBELT. A portion of a freeway that is part of the interstate
system and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal corporation or
group of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      (6)   RURAL. An area outside urbanized areas and outside of a business or
urban district, and areas that extend within urbanized areas where the roadway
characteristics remain mostly unchanged from those outside the urbanized areas.
      (7)   URBANIZED AREA. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
(R.C. § 4511.21(O))
   (j)   Penalty.
      (1)   A violation of any provision of this section is one of the
following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (j)(1)B., (j)(1)C., and
(j)(2) and (j)(3) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
         B.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of this
section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of any other municipal ordinance that
is substantially equivalent to any provision of that section, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree;
         C.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of any other
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision of that
section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender operated a motor vehicle faster than 35 miles an
hour in a business district of the municipality, faster than 50 miles an hour
in other portions of the municipality, or faster than 35 miles an hour in a
school zone during recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the school’s opening or closing hours, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. This division does not apply if penalties may be imposed under division
(j)(1)B. or (j)(1)C. of this section.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (j)(1) of this section, if the offender
operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then posted in
accordance with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two times the
usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the offender
alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this division and if the court determines that the offender is an
indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
      (4)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under § 303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.21(P))
§ 333.031 DRIVING WHILE APPROACHING STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE AND
CERTAIN OTHER VEHICLES WITH FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (a)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection
vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor
vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a
highway maintenance vehicle that is displaying the appropriate visual signals
by means of flashing, oscillating, or rotating lights, as prescribed in R.C. §
4513.17, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a highway that
consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same direction of
travel as that of the driver’s motor vehicle, the driver shall proceed with due
caution and, if possible and with due regard to the road, weather and traffic
conditions, shall change lanes into a lane this is not adjacent to that of the
stationary public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle,
waste collection vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to
conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and
4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle.
      (2)   If the driver is not traveling on a highway of a type described in
division (a)(1) of this section, or if the driver is traveling on a highway of
that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so would be
unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of the
motor vehicle, and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather and traffic
conditions.
   (b)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle,
emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection vehicle, vehicle used
by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle inspections in
accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle
from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons and
property upon the highway.
   (c)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
divisions (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section when so required by division (a) of
this section.
   (d)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding § 501.99 or R.C. § 2929.28, upon a finding that a
person operated a motor vehicle in violation of division (c) of this section,
the court, in addition to all other penalties provided by law, shall impose a
fine of two times the usual amount imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under § 303.99(b).
   (e)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
(R.C. § 4511.213)
§ 333.04 STOPPING VEHICLE; SLOW SPEED; POSTED MINIMUM SPEEDS.
   (a)   No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to
comply with law.
   (b)   Whenever the Director of Transportation or local authorities determine
on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that slow speeds on
any part of a controlled-access highway, expressway or freeway consistently
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the Director or local
authority may declare a minimum speed limit below which no person shall operate
a motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe operation or in compliance with
the law. No minimum speed limit established hereunder shall be less than 30
miles per hour, greater than 50 miles per hour, nor effective until the
provisions of R.C. § 4511.21 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
relating to appropriate signs, have been fulfilled and local authorities have
obtained the approval of the Director.
   (c)   In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact, in
determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (e)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.22)
§ 333.05 SPEED LIMITATIONS OVER BRIDGES.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle over any bridge or other
elevated structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater
than the maximum speed that can be maintained with safety to the bridge or
structure, when the structure is posted with signs as provided in this section.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation upon request from any local
authority shall, or upon its own initiative may, conduct an investigation of
any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of a highway, and if
it finds that the structure cannot with safety withstand traffic traveling at
the speed otherwise permissible under this Traffic Code, the Department shall
determine and declare the maximum speed of traffic which the structure can
withstand, and shall cause or permit suitable signs stating the maximum speed
to be erected and maintained at a distance of a least 100 feet before each end
of the structure.
      (3)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this
section, proof of such determination of the maximum speed by the Department and
the existence of the signs shall constitute prima facie evidence of the maximum
speed which can be maintained with safety to the bridge or structure.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.23)
§ 333.06 SPEED EXCEPTIONS FOR EMERGENCY OR SAFETY VEHICLES.
   The prima facie speed limitations set forth in R.C. § 4511.21 or §
333.03 do not apply to emergency vehicles or public safety vehicles when they
are responding to emergency calls and are equipped with and displaying at least
one flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle, and when
the drivers thereof sound audible signals by bell, siren or exhaust whistle.
This section does not relieve the driver of an emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.24)
§ 333.07 STREET RACING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   As used in this section, STREET RACING means the operation of two or
more vehicles from a point side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive
attempt to outdistance each other, or the operation of one or more vehicles
over a common selected course, from the same point to the same point, wherein
timing is made of the participating vehicles involving competitive
accelerations or speeds. Persons rendering assistance in any manner to such
competitive use of vehicles shall be equally charged as the participants. The
operation of two or more vehicles side by side either at speeds in excess of
prima facie lawful speeds established by R.C. § 4511.21(B)(1)(a) through (B)(9)
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or rapidly accelerating from
a common starting point to a speed in excess of the prima facie lawful speeds
shall be prima facie evidence of street racing.
   (b)   No person shall participate in street racing upon any public road,
street or highway in this municipality.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any other sanctions, the court
shall suspend the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating
privileges for not less than 30 days or more than three years. No judge shall
suspend the first 30 days of any suspension of an offender’s license, permit or
privilege imposed under this division.
(R.C. § 4511.251)
§ 333.08 REASONABLE CONTROL.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, agricultural tractor or
agricultural tractor that is towing, pulling or otherwise drawing a unit of
farm machinery on any street, highway or property open to the public for
vehicular traffic without being in reasonable control of the vehicle,
agricultural tractor or unit of farm machinery.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or agricultural tractor without being in control of it, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.202)
§ 333.09 RESERVED.
§ 333.10 OPERATION IN VIOLATION OF IMMOBILIZATION ORDER.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or permit the operation of a
motor vehicle upon any public or private property used by the public for
vehicular travel or parking knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that
the motor vehicle has been ordered immobilized pursuant to an immobilization
order issued under R.C. § 4503.233.
   (b)   A motor vehicle that is operated by a person during a violation of
division (a) of this section shall be criminally forfeited to the state in
accordance with the procedures contained in R.C. § 4503.234.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4503.236)
§ 333.11 DEPOSIT OF $25 OF FINE FOR VIOLATING O.V.I. ORDINANCE INTO INDIGENT
DRIVERS ALCOHOL TREATMENT FUND; IMMOBILIZATION OR FORFEITURE ORDERS BASED ON
PRIOR CONVICTIONS.
   (a)   Twenty-five dollars of any fine imposed for a violation of a municipal
O.V.I. ordinance shall be deposited into the municipal or county Indigent
Drivers Alcohol Treatment Fund created pursuant to R.C. § 4511.191(H) in
accordance with this section and R.C. §§ 733.40, 1901.024(A), (B), and (C),
1901.31(F) or 1907.20(C). Regardless of whether the fine is imposed by a
municipal court, a mayor’s court, or a juvenile court, if the fine was imposed
for a violation of an ordinance of a municipal corporation that is within the
jurisdiction of a county-operated municipal court or a municipal court that is
not a county-operated municipal court, the $25 that is subject to this section
shall be deposited into the Indigent Drivers Alcohol Treatment Fund of the
county in which that municipal corporation is located if the municipal court
that has jurisdiction over that municipal corporation is a county-operated
municipal court or of the municipal corporation in which is located the
municipal court that has jurisdiction over that municipal corporation if that
municipal court is not a county-based municipal court. Regardless of whether
the fine is imposed by a county court, a mayor’s court, or a juvenile court, if
the fine was imposed for a violation of an ordinance of a municipal corporation
that is within the jurisdiction of a county court, the $25 that is subject to
this section shall be deposited into the Indigent Drivers Alcohol Treatment
Fund of the county in which is located the county court that has jurisdiction
over that municipal corporation. The deposit shall be made in accordance with
R.C. §§ 733.40, 1901.024(A), (B), and (C), 1901.31(F), or 1907.20(C).
   (b)   Any court cost imposed as a result of a violation of a municipal
ordinance that is a moving violation and designated for an indigent drivers
alcohol treatment fund established pursuant to R.C. § 4511.191(H) shall be
deposited into the municipal or county Indigent Drivers Alcohol Treatment Fund
created pursuant to R.C. § 4511.191(H) in accordance with this section and R.C.
§§ 733.40, 1901.024(A), (B), and (C), 1901.31(F), or 1907.20(C). Regardless of
whether the court cost is imposed by a municipal court, a mayor’s court, or a
juvenile court, if the court cost was imposed for a violation of an ordinance
of a municipal corporation that is within the jurisdiction of a county-operated
municipal court or a municipal court that is not a county-operated municipal
court, the court cost that is subject to this section shall be deposited into
the Indigent Drivers Alcohol Treatment Fund of the county in which that
municipal corporation is located if the municipal court that has jurisdiction
over that municipal corporation is a county-operated municipal court or of the
municipal corporation in which is located the municipal court that has
jurisdiction over that municipal corporation if that municipal court is not a
county-operated municipal court. Regardless of whether the court cost is
imposed by a county court, a mayor’s court, or a juvenile court, if the court
cost was imposed for a violation of an ordinance of a municipal corporation
that is within the jurisdiction of a county court, the court cost that is
subject to this section shall be deposited into the Indigent Drivers Alcohol
Treatment Fund of the county in which is located the county court that has
jurisdiction over that municipal corporation. The deposit shall be made in
accordance with R.C. §§ 733.40, 1901.024(A), (B), and (C), 1901.31(F), or
1907.20(C).
   (c)   (1)   The requirements and sanctions imposed by divisions (c)(1) and
(2) of this section are an adjunct to and derive from the state’s exclusive
authority over the registration and titling of motor vehicles and do not
comprise a part of the criminal sentence to be imposed upon a person who
violates a municipal O.V.I. ordinance.
      (2)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of a
municipal O.V.I. ordinance, if the vehicle the offender was operating at the
time of the offense is registered in the offender’s name, and if, within six
years of the current offense, the offender has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or one or more
other equivalent offenses, the court, in addition to and independent of any
sentence that it imposes upon the offender for the offense, shall do whichever
of the following is applicable:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(2)B. of this
section, if, within six years of the current offense, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation described in division (c)(2) of
this section, the court shall order the immobilization for 90 days of that
vehicle and the impoundment for 90 days of the license plates of that vehicle.
The order for the immobilization and impoundment shall be issued and enforced
in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
         B.   If, within six years of the current offense, the offender has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations described in
division (c)(2) of this section, or if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) under
circumstances in which the violation was a felony and regardless of when the
violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, the court shall order the
criminal forfeiture to the state of that vehicle The order of criminal
forfeiture shall be issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234.
   (d)   As used in this section, COUNTY- OPERATED MUNICIPAL COURT has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 1901.03.
(R.C. § 4511.193)
§ 333.12 SPEED LIMITS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (a)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may establish a speed
limit on the road or driveway by complying with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The speed limit is not less than 25 miles per hour and is indicated
by a sign that is in a proper position, is sufficiently legible to be seen by
an ordinarily observant person, and meets the specifications for the basic
speed limit sign included in the Manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation pursuant to R.C. § 4511.09;
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, a speed limit has been
established for the road or driveway, and the speed limit is enforceable by law
enforcement officers under state law.
   (b)   No person shall operate a vehicle upon a private road or driveway as
provided in division (a) of this section at a speed exceeding any speed limit
established and posted pursuant to division (a).
   (c)   When a speed limit is established and posted in accordance with
division (a) of this section, a law enforcement officer may apprehend a person
violating the speed limit of the residential area by utilizing any of the means
described in R.C. § 4511.091 or by any other accepted method of determining the
speed of a motor vehicle and may stop and charge the person with exceeding the
speed limit.
   (d)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.211(D), points shall be assessed for violation
of a speed limit established and posted in accordance with division (a) of this
section in accordance with R.C. § 4510.036.
   (e)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   OWNER. Includes but is not limited to a person who holds title to
the real property in fee simple, a condominium owners’ association, a property
owners’ association, a board of directors or trustees of a private community,
and a nonprofit corporation governing a private community.
      (2)   PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Does
not include a Chautauqua assembly as defined in R.C. § 4511.90.
   (f)   Penalty.
      (1)   A violation of division (b) of this section is one of the
following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (f)(1)B. and (f)(1)C.
of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
         B.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, R.C. §
4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent
to that division, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
         C.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this
section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.211)
§ 333.13 OPERATION RESTRICTED FOR MINI-TRUCKS AND LOW-SPEED, UNDER-SPEED, OR
UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall operate a low-speed vehicle upon any street or
highway having an established speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour.
      (2)   No person shall operate an under-speed or utility vehicle or a
mini-truck upon any street or highway except as follows:
         A.   Upon a street or highway having an established speed limit not
greater than 35 miles per hour and only upon such streets or highways where the
municipality has granted permission for such operation in accordance with
division (e) of this section;
         B.   A state park or political subdivision employee or volunteer
operating a utility vehicle exclusively within the boundaries of state parks or
political subdivision parks for the operation or maintenance of state or
political subdivision park facilities.
      (3)   No person shall operate a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter upon
any street or highway having an established speed limit greater than 45 miles
per hour.
   (b)   This section does not prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   A person operating a low-speed, under-speed, or utility vehicle or
a mini-truck from proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway
having a speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   A person operating a motor- driven cycle or motor scooter from
proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway having a speed limit
greater than 45 miles per hour.
   (c)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the municipality from adopting
more stringent local ordinances, resolutions, or regulations governing the
operation of a low-speed vehicle or a mini-truck, or a motor-driven cycle or
motor scooter.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.214)
   (e)   By ordinance or resolution, the municipality may authorize the
operation of under- speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on a public street
or highway under its jurisdiction. The municipality shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Limit the operation of those vehicles to streets and highways
having an established speed limit not greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   Require the vehicle owner who wishes to operate an under-speed or
utility vehicle or a mini-truck on the public streets or highways to submit the
vehicle to an inspection conducted by a local law enforcement agency that
complies with inspection requirements established by the Department of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.02;
      (3)   Permit the operation on public streets or highways of only those
vehicles that successfully pass the required vehicle inspection, are registered
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4503, and are titled in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4505;
      (4)   Notify the Director of Public Safety, in a manner the Director
determines, of the authorization for the operation of under-speed or utility
vehicles or mini-trucks.
   (f)   The municipality may establish additional requirements for the
operation of under- speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on its streets and
highways.
(R.C. § 4511.215)
   (g)   Notwithstanding divisions (a) through (f) of this section, a person
may operate a utility vehicle on any public roads or right-of-way, other than a
freeway, when traveling from one farm field to another for agricultural
purposes if the vehicle is displaying a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem
as described in R.C. § 4513.112.
(R.C. § 4511.216)
   (h)   (1)   Except as provided in this division (h) and divisions (e) and
(f) of this section, no person shall operate a mini-truck within this
municipality.
      (2)   A person may operate a mini-truck on a farm for agricultural
purposes only when the owner of the farm qualifies for the current agricultural
use valuation tax credit. A mini-truck may be operated by or on behalf of such
a farm owner on public roads and rights-of-way only when traveling from one
farm field to another.
      (3)   A person may operate a mini-truck on property owned or leased by a
dealer who sells mini-trucks at retail.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (h) shall be penalized as provided
in division (d) of this section.
(R.C. § 4519.401)
§ 333.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:  
   See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 335: LICENSING; ACCIDENTS
Section
335.01   Driver’s or commercial driver’s license required
335.02   Possession of more than one license prohibited
335.03   Driving with temporary instruction permit
335.031   Driving with probationary license
335.04   Certain acts prohibited
335.05   Owner or operator allowing another to drive
335.06   Display of license
335.07   Driving under suspension, revocation or restriction (Repealed)
335.071   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction
335.072   Operating motor vehicle or motorcycle without valid license
335.073   Driving under O.V.I. suspension
335.074   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or
cancellation; driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension
335.075   Failure to reinstate license
335.08   Operation or sale without certificate of title
335.09   Display of license plates; registration; obstructions
335.10   License plates to be unobstructed (Recodified)
335.11   Use of illegal license plates
335.12   Failure to stop after accident
335.13   Stopping after accident on other than public roads or highways
335.131   Prohibition against failure to report the accident
335.14   Vehicle accident resulting in damage to realty
335.15   Removal of vehicles after accidents
335.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Glass removal from street after accident , see §
311.01
Statutory reference:
   Deposit of driver’s license as bond, see R.C. § 2937.221
   Driver’s license law, see R.C. Ch. 4507
   Motor vehicle licensing law, see R.C. Ch. 4503
   Motorized bicycle operator’s license, see R.C. § 4511.521
   Power of trial court of record to suspend license for certain violations,
see R.C. §§ 4510.05, 4510.15
   State accident reports, see R.C. §§ 4509.01(J), 4509.06, 4509.74, 5502.11
   State point system suspension, see R.C. § 4510.037
§ 335.01 DRIVER’S OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   A.   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle
upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking, knowing the operator does not have a valid
driver's license issued to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicle or a
deputy registrar under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver's license
issued under R.C. Chapter 4506. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
whoever violates this division is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
501.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
501.99(e) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
501.99(g)(1)B.1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
501.99(f)(1)C. and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
501.99(f)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         B.   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A)(1))
   (b)   (1)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving or propelling a road roller or road machinery upon a street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving or propelling any agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a
street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      (3)   No person shall drive, operate, draw, move or propel any
agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a street or highway at a
speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the person has a current, valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (4)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate a
motorcycle having three wheels with a motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement.
      (5)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate an
autocycle or a cab-enclosed motorcycle.
      (6)   Every person on active duty in the military or naval forces of the
United States, when furnished with a driver’s permit and when operating an
official motor vehicle in connection with that duty, is exempt from the license
requirements of R.C. Chapters 4506 and 4507. Every person on active duty in the
military or naval forces of the United States or in service with the Peace
Corps, Volunteers in Service to America or the foreign service of the United
States is exempt from the license requirements of such sections for the period
of the person’s active duty or service and for six months thereafter, provided
the person was a licensee under such sections at the time the person commenced
the person’s active duty or service. This section does not prevent such a
person or the person’s spouse or dependent from making an application, as
provided in R.C. § 4507.10(C), for the renewal of a driver’s license or
motorcycle operator’s endorsement or as provided in R.C. § 4506.14 for the
renewal of a commercial driver’s license during the period of the person’s
active duty or service.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (b)(3) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.03)
   (c)   Nonresidents, permitted to drive upon the highways of their own state,
may operate any motor vehicle upon any highway in this state without
examination or license under R.C. §§ 4507.01 to 4507.39, inclusive, upon
condition that the nonresident may be required at any time or place to prove
lawful possession or their right to operate the motor vehicle, and to establish
proper identity.
(R.C. § 4507.04)
   (d)   Surrender of driver’s license from another state.
      (1)   Any person who becomes a resident of this state, within 30 days of
becoming a resident, shall surrender any driver's license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card issued by another state to the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar. If such a person intends to
operate a motor vehicle upon the public roads or highways, the person shall
apply for a temporary instruction permit or driver's license in this state. If
the person fails to apply for a driver's license or temporary instruction
permit or within 30 days of becoming a resident, the person shall not operate
any motor vehicle in this state under a license or permit issued by another
state.
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates division (d)(1) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         B.   The offense established under division (d)(2)A. of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
      (3)   For purposes of division (d)(1) of this section, “resident” means
any person to whom any of the following applies:
         A.   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         B.   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to be
a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C. §
4507.01.
(R.C. § 4507.213)
§ 335.02 POSSESSION OF MORE THAN ONE LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall receive a driver's license, or a motorcycle
operator's endorsement of a driver's or commercial driver's license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card unless and until the person
surrenders to the Registrar or a deputy registrar all valid licenses, temporary
instruction permits, and identification cards issued to the person by another
jurisdiction recognized by this state.
      (2)   The Registrar shall report the cancellation of a license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card to the issuing authority, together
with information that the license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card is now issued in this state. The Registrar or a deputy
registrar shall destroy any such license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (3)   No person shall possess more than one valid license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card at any time.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A)(2))
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.99)
§ 335.03 DRIVING WITH TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   (a)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
in violation of the conditions established under R.C. § 4507.05(A).
   (b)   Except as provided in division (c) of this section, no holder of a
temporary instruction permit that is issued under R.C. § 4507.05(A) and that is
issued on or after July 1, 1998, and who has not attained the age of 18 years,
shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property
used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m.
   (c)   The holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) on or after July 1, 1998, who has not attained the age of 18 years,
may operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property
used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. if, at the time of the operation, the holder is
accompanied by the holder’s parent, guardian or custodian, and the parent,
guardian or custodian holds a current valid driver’s or commercial driver’s
license issued by this state, is actually occupying a seat beside the permit
holder, and does not have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as provided in R.C. § 4511.19
(A).
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4507.05(F), (I))
§ 335.031 DRIVING WITH PROBATIONARY LICENSE.
   (a)   (1)   A.   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held
the license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. unless
the holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
         B.   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for 12 months or longer shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless the
holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
      (2)   A.   Subject to division (c)(1) of this section, division (a)(1)A.
of this section does not apply to the holder of a probationary driver’s license
who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of midnight and 6:
00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided
that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
         B.   Division (a)(1)B. of this section does not apply to the holder of
a probationary driver’s license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.,
provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written
documentation from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
      (3)   An employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event is not liable in damages in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises from, or is related
to, the fact that the employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event provided the holder of a probationary driver’s license with the
written documentation described in division (a)(2) of this section. The
Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall make available at no cost a form to serve as
the written documentation described in division (a)(2) of this section, and
employers, school officials, officials affiliated with religious events, and
holders of probationary driver’s licenses may utilize that form or may choose
to utilize any other written documentation to meet the requirements of that
division.
      (4)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking with more than one person who is not a family member
occupying the vehicle unless the probationary license holder is accompanied by
the probationary license holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of division (a)(1)A. or
(a)(1)B. of this section if, at the time of the violation, an emergency existed
that required the holder of the probationary driver’s license to operate a
motor vehicle in violation of division (a)(1)A. or (a)(1)B. of this section or
the holder was an emancipated minor.
   (c)   (1)   If a person is issued a probationary driver’s license prior to
attaining the age of 17 years and the person pleads guilty to, is convicted of,
or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a moving violation
during the six-month period commencing on the date on which the person is
issued the probationary driver’s license, the court with jurisdiction over the
violation may order that the holder must be accompanied by the holder’s parent
or guardian whenever the holder is operating a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking for a period not to exceed six months or the date the holder
attains the age of 17 years, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Any person who is subject to the operating restrictions established
under division (c)(1) of this section as a result of a first moving violation
may petition the court for driving privileges without being accompanied by the
holder’s parent or guardian during the period of time determined by the court
under that division. In granting the driving privileges, the court shall
specify the purposes of the privileges and shall issue the person appropriate
forms setting forth the privileges granted. If a person is convicted of, pleads
guilty to, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a second or
subsequent moving violation, the court with jurisdiction over the violation may
terminate any driving privileges previously granted under this division.
      (3)   No person shall violate any operating restriction imposed under
division (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section.
   (d)   No holder of a probationary license shall operate a motor vehicle upon
a highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking unless the total number of occupants of the vehicle
does not exceed the total number of occupant restraining devices originally
installed in the motor vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the
vehicle is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted
occupant restraining device.
   (e)   A restricted license may be issued to a person who is 14 or 15 years
of age under proof of hardship satisfactory to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
   (f)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by division (d) of this section, or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons if that requirement has been or is being violated,
or for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a
violation of that requirement.
   (g)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (a)(1)A. or (a)(1)B. of this
section has been or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons for such a violation or for causing the arrest or
commencing a prosecution of a person for such a violation.
   (h)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   FAMILY MEMBER of a probationary license holder. Includes any of the
following:
         A.   A spouse;
         B.   A child or stepchild;
         C.   A parent, stepparent, grandparent or parent-in-law;
         D.   An aunt or uncle;
         E.   A sibling, whether of the whole or half blood or by adoption, a
brother-in-law or a sister-in-law;
         F.   A son or daughter of the probationary license holder’s stepparent
if the stepparent has not adopted the probationary license holder; and
         G.   An eligible adult, as defined in R.C. § 4507.05.
      (2)   MOVING VIOLATION. Any violation of any statute or ordinance that
regulates the operation of vehicles on the highways or streets. MOVING
VIOLATION does not include a violation of R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of any statute or ordinance
regulating pedestrians or the parking of vehicles, vehicle size or load
limitations, vehicle fitness requirements or vehicle registration.
      (3)   OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4513.263.
   (i)   Whoever violates divisions (a)(1), (a)(4), (c)(3), or (d) of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4507.071(B) - (J))
§ 335.04 CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended or
altered;
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
      (3)   Display, or represent as one’s own, any identification card,
driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or
commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled;
      (5)   In any application for an identification card, driver's or
commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial
driver's license temporary instruction permit or any renewal, reprint, or
duplicate thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact or present any physician's
statement required under R.C. §§ 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to
be false or fictitious.
   (b)   Whoever violates any division of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.30)
§ 335.05 OWNER OR OPERATOR ALLOWING ANOTHER TO DRIVE.
   (a)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges.
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under R.C. Chapter 4510 or
any other provision of the Revised Code.
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in R.C. Chapter 4509.
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate R.C. § 4511.19 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under R.C. §
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (b)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4)
or (a)(5) of this section has occurred, it shall be prima facie evidence that
the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the
motor vehicle owned by the offender or under the offender’s control is in a
category described in division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4) or (a)(5) of this
section if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (a)(1), (a)(3) or (a)(5) of this section, the offender and the
operator of the motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by
consanguinity or affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (a)(2) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any
violation of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that
would or could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s
license, permit, or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (a)(4) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (c) to (h) of
this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the
offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
501.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
501.99(d) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
501.99(f)(1)B.1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
501.99(e)(1)C. and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
501.99(e)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   A.   If, within three years of a violation of division (a)(1), (a)
(2), or (a)(3) of this section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to
or been convicted of two or more violations of division (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)
(3) of this section, R.C. § 4511.203(A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   Whoever violates division (a)(4) or (a)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under this Code or R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), and, if
the vehicle involved in the offense is registered in the name of the offender,
the court may order one of the following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(3)B. or (c)(3)C. of
this section, the court may order, for 30 days, the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license
plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §
4503.233.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to
      one violation of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order, for 60 days, the
immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of
that vehicle’s license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and
enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         C.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal
forfeiture to the state of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the
order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234.
      (4)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under division (c)(3)C. of this section is assigned or
transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this
division shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (d)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(c)(3)A. or (c)(3)B. of this section, the court shall not release the vehicle
from the immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization
ordered unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (e)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(c)(3)C. of this section, upon receipt of the order from the court, neither the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor any deputy registrar shall accept any
application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of denial
shall be five years after the date the order is issued, unless, during that
five-year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in
the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar of the
termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar,
the Registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person to
register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (f)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in R.C. § 4549.65.
   (g)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to, or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section shall not be admissible as
evidence in any civil action that involves the offender or delinquent child who
is the subject of the conviction, plea or adjudication and that arises from the
wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
   (h)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name.
(R.C. § 4511.203)
§ 335.06 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (a)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator’s driver’s
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver’s
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made, and the operator has the operator’s driver’s license on or about
the operator’s person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person’s failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4507 when the person does not have the person’s license on
or about the person’s person shall be prima facie evidence of the person’s not
having obtained a driver’s license.
   (b)   (1)   Except as provided in division (b)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to § 501.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender
shall not be sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a
community residential sanction pursuant to § 501.99(d) or R.C. § 2929.26;
notwithstanding § 501.99(f)(1)B.1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender
may be fined up to $1,000; and notwithstanding § 501.99(e)(1)C. and R.C. §
2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant to § 501.99(e)(3) or R.C. §
2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to 500 hours. The failure
of an offender to complete a term of community service imposed by the court may
be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. § 2705.02(A) that may be
filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section,
R.C. § 4507.35, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.35)
§ 335.07 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OR RESTRICTION (REPEALED).
Editor’s note:
   Section 335.07 was repealed as part of the 2004 updating and revision of
these Codified Ordinances because substantially equivalent state law (R.C. §§
4507.02(B) - (H)) was repealed by the Ohio General Assembly. See §§
335.071 through
335.075 for current provisions.
§ 335.071 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (a)   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (a)(2) of this section, division (b)
of this section, §
335.074 and in R.C. §§ 4510.111 and 4510.16, no person whose driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended under any provision of the Revised Code, other than R.C. Chapter
4509, or under any applicable law in any other jurisdiction in which the
person’s license or permit was issued shall operate any motor vehicle upon the
public roads and highways or upon any public or private property used by the
public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking within this municipality
during the period of suspension unless the person is granted limited driving
privileges and is operating the vehicle in accordance with the terms of the
limited driving privileges.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality in violation of any restriction of the person’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit imposed under R.C. § 4506.10
(D) or § 4507.14.
      (3)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division (a)(1) of this
section or the person operated a motor vehicle in violation of a restriction at
the time of the alleged violation of division (a)(2) of this section. The
person charged with a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (4)   A.   Whoever violates division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the
offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(7).
         B.   1.   Except as provided in division (a)(4)B.2. or (a)(4)B.3. of
this section, the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on
the offender and if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111
or 4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon the
offender, may order the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense
for 30 days and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates for 30 days in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            2.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, or any combination of
two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any other
sentence that it imposes on the offender, may order the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense for 60 days and the impoundment of that
vehicle’s license plates for 60 days in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            3.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, or any
combination of three or more violations of this section or R.C. § 4510.11,
4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a substantially similar municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to any other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may
order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense to the
state.
      (5)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section
shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §§ 4503.233 and 4507.02, as applicable.
The court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this
section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
      (6)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order from
the court, neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a deputy registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the
date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
registrar of the termination. The registrar then shall take necessary measures
to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to
transfer registration of the vehicle.
      (7)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
501.99(f) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.11)
   (b)   Driving under suspension in violation of other provisions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license
has been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2151.354, 2151.87, 2935.27, 3123.58,
4301.99, 4510.032, 4510.22, or 4510.33, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (2)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (b)(1) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at the
time of the alleged violation of division (b)(1) of this section. The person
charged with a violation of division (b)(1) of this section may offer evidence
to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (b)(1) of this section is guilty of
driving under suspension and shall be punished as provided in division (b)(3)A.
or division (b)(3)B. of this section.
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(3)B. of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender shall be
sentenced pursuant to §
501.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
501.99(d) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
501.99(f)(1)B.1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
501.99(e)(1)C. and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
501.99(e)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         B.   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
was convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (b)(1)
of this section, or any combination of two or more violations of division (b)
(1) of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree, and the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender's
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.111)
   (c)   Repeat traffic offender; point system suspension. Any person whose
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privileges are suspended as a repeat traffic offender under R.C. § 4510.037 and
who, during the suspension, operates any motor vehicle upon any public roads
and highways is guilty of driving under a twelve- point suspension, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to a
minimum term of three days in jail. No court shall suspend the first three days
of jail time imposed pursuant to this division.
(R.C. § 4510.037(J))
   (d)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
§ 335.072 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE WITHOUT VALID LICENSE.
   (a)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04 and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public
road or highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person
has a valid driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a commercial
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04 and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person has a valid
license as a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. Chapter 4507.
   The license shall be in the form of an endorsement, as determined by the
Registrar, upon a driver’s or commercial driver’s license, if the person has a
valid license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle, or in the
form of a restricted license as provided in R.C. § 4507.14, if the person does
not have a valid license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor
vehicle.
   (b)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the person did not have either a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (a)(1) of this section or a valid license as a motorcycle operator
either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or a restricted license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (a)(2) of this section. The person charged with a violation of
division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section may offer evidence to rebut this
prima facie evidence.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender, if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator, either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this division, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
501.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
501.99(d) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
501.99(f)(1)B.1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
501.99(e)(1)C. and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
501.99(e)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender’s restricted license was expired at the time of the
offense, except as otherwise provided in this division, the offense is a minor
misdemeanor. If within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (d)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender’s
last violation of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (e)   If the offender is sentenced under division (c)(2) of this section, if
within three years of the offense the offender previously was convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance within the past three years, and
if the offender’s license was expired for more than six months at the time of
the offense, the court may impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s
driver license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(R.C. § 4510.12)
§ 335.073 DRIVING UNDER O.V.I. SUSPENSION.
   (a)   No person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under R.C. § 4511.19, §
4511.191 or § 4511.196 or under R.C. § 4510.07 for a conviction of a violation
of a municipal O.V.I. ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the public
roads or highways within this municipality during the period of the suspension.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under O.V.I.
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this
section, driving under O.V.I. suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         A.   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three- day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to division (c) of this section, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 30 consecutive days of house
arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with electronic
monitoring imposed under this division shall not exceed six months. If the
court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this division, the court
may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided that in no case shall
the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed six months;
         B.   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $1,000;
         C.   A license suspension under division (e) of this section; and
         D.   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization for 30 days of the
offender’s vehicle and impoundment for 30 days of the identification license
plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment shall be
issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under O.V.I. suspension is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         A.   A mandatory jail term of ten consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. § 2929.21 to 2929.28, the court may sentence
the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The ten-day
mandatory jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to division (c) of this
section, the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 90 consecutive
days of house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of house arrest
with electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year;
         B.   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         C.   A license suspension under division (e) of this section; and
         D.   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization of the offender’s
vehicle for 60 days and the impoundment for 60 days of the identification
license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under O.V.I. suspension is a
misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         A.   A mandatory jail term of 30 consecutive days. Notwithstanding the
jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, the court may sentence the
offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The court shall not
sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring in
lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term;
         B.   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in R.C. Chapter 2929, a fine
of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         C.   A license suspension under division (e) of this section; and
         D.   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, criminal forfeiture to the state
of the offender’s vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and
enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234. If title to a motor vehicle that
is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture under this division is assigned
or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, the court may fine
the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the
National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine so imposed
shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (c)   (1)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest
with electronic monitoring under division (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section
unless, within 60 days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender
will not be able to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following
the date of sentencing.
      (2)   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (d)   Fifty percent of any fine imposed by a court under division (b)(1),
(b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section shall be deposited into the Municipal Indigent
Drivers’ Alcohol Treatment Fund under the control of that court, as created by
the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 4511.191(H).
   (e)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law
or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the Mayor of a Mayor’s
Court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (1)   When permitted as specified in R.C. § 4510.021, if the court grants
limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the
privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the offender must
display restricted license plates, issued under R.C. § 4503.231, on the vehicle
driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (2)   A suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under
R.C. § 3123.58 or § 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from
holding a commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the
commercial driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person
whose commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be
issued a driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the
suspension.
   (f)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
501.99(f) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under this
section for which the offender is sentenced.
   (g)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   ELECTRONIC MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      (2)   EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
         A.   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state, or
law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to division (a) of
this section; and/or
         B.   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to division (a) of this section.
      (3)   JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      (4)   MANDATORY JAIL TERM. The mandatory term in jail of three, ten or 30
consecutive days that must be imposed under division (b)(1), (b)(2) or (b)(3)
of this section upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (a) of
this section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         A.   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail.
         B.   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision
of the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 4510.14)
   (h)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 335.074 DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR
CANCELLATION; DRIVING UNDER A NONPAYMENT OF JUDGMENT SUSPENSION.
   (a)   No person, whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle within
this municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to
be operated by another person in the municipality, during the period of the
suspension or cancellation, except as specifically authorized by R.C. Chapter
4509. No person shall operate a motor vehicle within this municipality, or
knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to be operated by
another person in the municipality, during the period in which the person is
required by R.C. § 4509.45 to file and maintain proof of financial
responsibility for a violation of R.C. § 4509.101, unless proof of financial
responsibility is maintained with respect to that vehicle.
   (b)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this municipality if the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or temporary instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a
judgment.
   (c)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (a) or (b) of this section may be admitted into evidence
as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under either a
financial responsibility law suspension at the time of the alleged violation of
division (a) of this section or a nonpayment of judgment suspension at the time
of the alleged violation of division (b) of this section. The person charged
with a violation of division (a) or (b) of this section may offer evidence to
rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of driving
under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall be
punished as provided in this division (d). Whoever violates division (b) of
this section is guilty of driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension and
shall be punished as provided in this division (d).
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (d)(2) of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an
unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
501.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
501.99(d) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
501.99(f)(1)B.1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
501.99(e)(1)C. and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
501.99(e)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section, or
any combination of two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or
4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender's
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.16)
   (e)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 335.075 FAILURE TO REINSTATE LICENSE.
   (a)   No person whose driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles or another provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (b)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (a) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person had not been reinstated by
the person at the time of the alleged violation of division (a) of this
section. The person charged with a violation of division (a) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license, and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
501.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
501.99(d) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
501.99(f)(1)B.1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
501.99(e)(1)C. and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
501.99(e)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of division (a) of this
section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two
or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver's license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(R.C. § 4510.21)
   (d)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
§ 335.08 OPERATION OR SALE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this municipality a motor vehicle for which a
certificate of title is required without having that certificate in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 4505 or, if a physical certificate of title has not been
issued for a motor vehicle, operate the motor vehicle in this state knowing
that the ownership information relating to the vehicle has not been entered
into the automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common
Pleas;
      (2)   Display or display for sale or sell as a dealer or acting on behalf
of a dealer, a motor vehicle without having obtained a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate, a certificate of title or an assignment of a
certificate of title for it as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title or any certificate of
registration or license plates upon cancellation of the same by the Registrar
of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed in R.C. Chapter
4505;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505 in case of the destruction or
dismantling or change of a motor vehicle in such respect that it is not the
motor vehicle described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any rules adopted pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapters 4505 and 4517, sell
at wholesale a motor vehicle ownership of which is not evidenced by an Ohio
certificate of title, or the current certificate of title issued for the motor
vehicle, or the manufacturer’s certificate of origin, and all title assignments
that evidence the seller’s ownership of the motor vehicle, and an odometer
disclosure statement that complies with R.C. § 4505.06 and subchapter IV of the
Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act, 86 Stat. 961 (1972), 15 U.S.C.
§ 1981; and/or
      (7)   Operate in this state a motor vehicle knowing that the certificate
of title to the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle as otherwise reflected in
the automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (b)   This section does not apply to persons engaged in the business of
warehousing or transporting motor vehicles for the purpose of salvage
disposition.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4505.18)
§ 335.09 DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES; REGISTRATION; OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (a)   (1)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to display in plain view on the rear of the motor vehicle a license plate
that displays the distinctive number and registration mark assigned to the
motor vehicle by the Ohio Director of Public Safety, including any county
identification sticker and any validation sticker when required by and issued
under R.C. §§ 4503.19 and 4503.191. However, a commercial tractor shall display
the license plate on the front of the commercial tractor.
      (2)   The license plate shall be securely fastened so as not to swing,
and shall not be covered by any material that obstructs its visibility.
      (3)   No person to whom a temporary motor vehicle license registration
has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under R.C. § 4503.182, and no
operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary motor
vehicle license registration in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either
in the rear window or on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall cover a temporary motor vehicle license
registration by any material that obstructs its visibility.
(R.C. § 4503.21(A))
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided by R.C. §§ 4503.103, 4503.107, 4503.173,
4503.41, 4503.43 and 4503.46, no person who is the owner or chauffeur of a
motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways shall fail
to file annually the application for registration or to pay the tax therefor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(A))
   (c)   (1)   Within 30 days of becoming a resident of this state, any person
who owns a motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways
shall register the vehicle in this state. If such a person fails to register a
vehicle owned by the person, the person shall not operate any motor vehicle in
this state under a license issued by another state.
      (2)   For purposes of division (c)(1) of this section, "resident" means
any person to whom any of the following applies:
         A.   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person's active service in the
United States armed forces.
         B.   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to be
a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C. §
4507.01.
(R.C. § 4503.111(A), (C))
   (d)   Upon the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle, the registration of
the motor vehicle expires, and the original owner immediately shall remove the
license plates from the motor vehicle, except as otherwise provided in R.C. §
4503.12.
(R.C. § 4503.12(A))
   (e)   No person shall operate or drive upon the highways of this
municipality a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered
the motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration.
(R.C. § 4549.11(A))
   (f)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of this
state shall operate or drive the motor vehicle upon the highways of this
municipality while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark
issued by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the
laws of this state relating to the registration and identification of motor
vehicles.
(R.C. § 4549.12(A))
   (g)   (1)   A.   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         B.   The offenses established under division (a) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4503.21(B), (C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(D))
      (3)   A.   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         B.   The offense established under division (g)(3)A. of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4503.111(B))
      (4)   Whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4503.12(D))
      (5)   Whoever violates division (e) of this section is guilty of
operation of a motor vehicle bearing license plates or an identification mark
issued to another, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.11(B))
      (6)   Whoever violates division (f) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation by a resident of this state of a motor vehicle bearing the
distinctive number or identification mark issued by a foreign jurisdiction, a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.12(B))
§ 335.10 LICENSE PLATES TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED (RECODIFIED).
Editor’s note:
   Sections 335.09 and 335.10 were combined as part of the 2009 updating and
recodification of these codified ordinances. For provisions regarding license
plates to be unobstructed, please see §
335.09.
§ 335.11 USE OF ILLEGAL LICENSE PLATES.
   (a)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the public roads
and highways in this municipality if it displays a license plate or a
distinctive number or identification mark that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   It is fictitious;
      (2)   It is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark; or
      (3)   It belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section
does not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and
highways in this municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates
that originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by
the same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads
and highways in this municipality during the 30-day period described in R.C. §
4503.12(A)(4).
   (b)   A person who fails to comply with the transfer of registration
provisions of R.C. § 4503.12 and is charged with a violation of that section
shall not be charged with a violation of this section.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section is
guilty of operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or
identification mark, this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the third degree on each
subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.08)
§ 335.12 FAILURE TO STOP AFTER ACCIDENT.
   (a)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision with
persons or property on a public road or highway, the operator of the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the operator’s motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or collision. The
operator shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
operator has given the operator’s name and address and, if the operator is not
the owner, the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together
with the registered number of that motor vehicle, to all of the following:
         A.   Any person injured in the accident or collision;
         B.   The operator, occupant, owner, or attendant of any motor vehicle
damaged in the accident or collision;
         C.   The police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event an injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given under division (a)(1) of this section, the
other operator involved in the accident or collision shall notify the nearest
police authority concerning the location of the accident or collision, and the
operator’s name, address, and the registered number of the motor vehicle the
operator was operating. The operator shall remain at the scene of the accident
or collision until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the scene by
an emergency vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident. Except as otherwise provided in division (b)
(2) or (b)(3) of this section, failure to stop after an accident is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.02)
§ 335.13 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT ON OTHER THAN PUBLIC ROADS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (a)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision resulting
in injury or damage to persons or property on any public or private property
other than a public road or highway, the operator of the motor vehicle, having
knowledge of the accident or collision, shall stop at the scene of the accident
or collision. Upon request of any person who is injured or damaged, or any
other person, the operator shall give that person the operator’s name and
address, and, if the operator is not the owner, the name and address of the
owner of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the operator’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license.
      (2)   If the operator of the motor vehicle involved in the accident or
collision does not provide the information specified in division (a)(1) of this
section, the operator shall give that information, within 24 hours after the
accident or collision, to the police department of the city or village in which
the accident or collision occurred, or if it occurred outside the corporate
limits of a city or village, to the sheriff of the county in which the accident
or collision occurred.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required under division (a)(1) of this section, in
writing, to a conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor
vehicle.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident. Except as otherwise provided
in division (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section, failure to stop after a nonpublic
road accident is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.021)
§ 335.131 PROHIBITION AGAINST FAILURE TO REPORT THE ACCIDENT.
   (a)   No person shall fail to report a motor vehicle accident as required
under the laws of this state.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2023-26, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 335.14 VEHICLE ACCIDENT RESULTING IN DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (a)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
damage to real property, or personal property attached to real property,
legally upon or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and
take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address, and of the
registration number of vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and if
available, shall exhibit the driver’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located
after reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident
resulting in damage to the property within 24 hours after the accident, shall
forward to the Police Department of the municipality the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the property and give
the location of the accident and a description of the damage insofar as it is
known.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident involving the property of others, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to § 501.99
(f) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.03)
§ 335.15 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AFTER ACCIDENTS.
   (a)   If a motor vehicle accident occurs on any highway, public street, or
other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel and if any
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that has been damaged or spilled as
a result of the motor vehicle accident is blocking the highway, street, or
other property or is otherwise endangering public safety, a public safety
official may do either of the following without the consent of the owner but
with the approval of the law enforcement agency conducting any investigation of
the accident:
      (1)   Remove, or order the removal of, the motor vehicle if the motor
vehicle is unoccupied, cargo, or personal property from the portion of the
highway, public street, or property ordinarily used for vehicular travel on the
highway, public street, or other property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
      (2)   If the motor vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle, allow the owner
or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to arrange for the removal of the
motor vehicle within a period of time specified by the public safety official.
If the public safety official determines that the motor vehicle cannot be
removed within the specified period of time, the public safety official shall
remove or order the removal of the motor vehicle.
   (b)   (1)   Except as provided in division (b)(2) of this section, the
Department of Transportation, any employee of the Department of Transportation,
or a public safety official who authorizes or participates in the removal of
any unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by
division (a) of this section, regardless of whether the removal is executed by
a private towing service, is not liable for civil damages for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that results from the removal of that
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property. Further, except as
provided in division (b)(2) of this section, if a public safety official
authorizes, employs, or arranges to have a private towing service remove any
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by division
(a) of this section, that private towing service is not liable for civil
damages for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that results from
the removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property.
      (2)   Division (b)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         A.   Any person or entity involved in the removal of an unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property pursuant to division (a) of this
section if that removal causes or contributes to the release of a hazardous
material or to structural damage to the roadway;
         B.   A private towing service that was not authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to remove an unoccupied motor vehicle,
cargo, or personal property under this section;
         C.   Except as provided in division (b)(2)D. of this section, a
private towing service that was authorized, employed, or arranged by a public
safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo,
or personal property but the private towing service performed the removal in a
negligent manner;
         D.   A private towing service that was authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that was endangering public safety
but the private towing service performed the removal in a reckless manner.
   (c)   As used in divisions (a) and (b) of this section:
      (1)   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.232.
      (2)   PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICIAL. Means any of the following:
         A.   The sheriff of the county, or the chief of a law enforcement
agency in the municipal corporation, township, port authority, conservancy
district, or township or joint police district, in which the accident occurred;
         B.   A state highway patrol trooper;
         C.   The chief of the fire department having jurisdiction where the
accident occurred;
         D.   A duly authorized subordinate acting on behalf of an official
specified in divisions A. to C. of this definition.
(R.C. § 4513.66)
   (d)   If a towing service is removing a motor vehicle, and the removal was
not authorized under R.C. § 4513.60, 4513.601, 4513.61, or 4513.66, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, prior to removing the motor
vehicle, the towing service shall provide a written estimate of the price for
the removal to the operator of the motor vehicle, if requested.
   (e)   The towing service shall ensure that any estimate provided under
division (d) of this section includes the fees, services to be rendered, and
destination of the vehicle.
   (f)   If a towing service fails to provide a written estimate as required by
this section, the towing service shall not charge fees for the towing and
storage of the motor vehicle that exceed 25% of any applicable fees established
by the public utilities commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25(B)(4)
or, if the vehicle was towed within a municipal corporation that has
established vehicle removal and storage fees, 25% of the fees established by
the municipal corporation.
   (g)   Any storage facility that accepts towed vehicles shall conspicuously
post a notice at the entrance to the storage facility that states the
limitation on fees established under division (f) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.68)
§ 335.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:  
   See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 337: SAFETY AND EQUIPMENT
Section
337.01   Driving unsafe vehicles; application
337.02   Lighted lights; measurement of distances and heights
337.03   Headlights on motor vehicles and motorcycles
337.04   Tail light; illumination of rear license plate
337.05   Rear red reflectors
337.06   Safety lighting on commercial vehicles
337.07   Obscured lights on vehicles in combination
337.08   Red light or red flag on extended loads
337.09   Lights on parked or stopped vehicles
337.10   Lights, emblems, and reflectors on slow-moving vehicles, farm
machinery, agricultural tractors, and animal-drawn vehicles
337.11   Spotlight and auxiliary lights
337.12   Cowl, fender and back-up lights
337.13   Two lights displayed
337.14   Use of headlight beams
337.15   Lights of less intensity on slow-moving vehicles
337.16   Number of lights permitted; red and flashing lights
337.17   Focus and aim of headlights
337.18   Motor vehicle and motorcycle brakes
337.19   Horn, siren and theft alarm signal
337.20   Muffler; muffler cutout; excessive smoke, gas or noise
337.21   Rear-view mirror; clear view to front, both sides and rear
337.22   Windshield required; sign or poster upon windshield; windshield wiper
337.23   Limited load extension on left side of passenger vehicle
337.24   Motor vehicle stop lights
337.25   Air cleaner required
337.26   Use of child restraints
337.27   Use of occupant restraining devices
337.28   Use of sunscreening, nontransparent and reflectorized materials
337.29   Bumpers
337.30   Motor vehicle music
337.31   Directional signals required
337.32   Air bags
337.33    Lights and sound-producing devices on coroners’ vehicles
337.34   Vehicles transporting preschool children
337.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Bicycle equipment, see §
373.06
   Towing requirements; exception to size and weight restrictions, see §
339.07
   Use of stop and turn signals, see §
331.14
   Use of studded tires and chains, see §
339.11
   Vehicles transporting explosives, see §
339.06
   Wheel protectors for commercial vehicles, see §
339.05
Statutory reference:
   Motorized bicycle lights and equipment, see R.C. § 4511.521
   Warning devices for commercial vehicles disabled upon freeways, see R.C. §
4513.28
§ 337.01 DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES; APPLICATION.
   (a)   No person shall drive or move, or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.02(A), (H))
§ 337.02 LIGHTED LIGHTS; MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCES AND HEIGHTS.
   (a)   Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a street
or highway within this state shall display lighted lights and illuminating
devices as required by R.C. §§ 4513.04 through 4513.37 during all of the
following times:
      (1)   The time from sunset to sunrise;
      (2)   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles and substantial objects
on the highway are not discernible at a distance of 1,000 feet ahead;
      (3)   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
   (b)   Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights
meeting the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4511.521. No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this section, shall be
operated upon a street or highway within this state using only parking lights
as illumination.
   (c)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the distance
from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or within
which such lamps or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be measured
upon a straight level unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions
unless a different condition is expressly stated.
   (d)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the mounted
height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such light or
device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (e)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway within this state to stop the vehicle solely because the
officer observes that a violation of division (a)(3) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that division, or causing the arrest of or
commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of that division.
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.03)
§ 337.03 HEADLIGHTS ON MOTOR VEHICLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
   (a)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped
with at least two headlights with at least one near each side of the front of
the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more
than two headlights.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.04)
§ 337.04 TAIL LIGHT; ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (a)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or
vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be
equipped with at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted,
shall emit a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear,
provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the
rearmost vehicle need be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
the registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of 50
feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating the registration plate.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.05)
§ 337.05 REAR RED REFLECTORS.
      (a)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and
operated on a highway, other than a commercial tractor to which a trailer or
semitrailer is attached, shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the tail
lamps or separately, two red reflectors meeting the requirements of this
section, except that vehicles of the type mentioned in R.C. § 4513.07 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be equipped with reflectors
as required by the regulations provided for in that section.
         (2)   Every such reflector shall be of a size and characteristics and
so maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to
50 feet from the vehicle.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.06)
§ 337.06 SAFETY LIGHTING ON COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (a)   (1)   When the Director of Public Safety prescribes and promulgates
regulations relating to clearance lights, marker lights, reflectors and stop
lights on buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers and pole
trailers, when operated upon any highway, these vehicles shall be equipped as
required by the regulations, and the equipment shall be lighted at all times
mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be lighted on any
such vehicle when it is operated within the municipality where there is
sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object on the highway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   This equipment shall be in addition to all other lights
specifically required by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through 4513.16, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances.
      (3)   Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission are not subject to this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.07)
§ 337.07 OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES IN COMBINATION.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by reason
of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination, need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
(R.C. § 4513.08)
§ 337.08 RED LIGHT OR RED FLAG ON EXTENDED LOADS.
   (a)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of this vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a red light or lantern plainly
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red
light or lantern required by this section is in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load a red flag or cloth not less than 16 inches
square.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.09)
§ 337.09 LIGHTS ON PARKED OR STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (a)   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or
stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or a shoulder adjacent thereto, whether
attended or unattended, during the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the vehicle shall be equipped
with one or more lights which shall exhibit a white or amber light on the
roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle,
and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear. No lights need
be displayed upon any such vehicle when it is stopped or parked within the
municipality where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon the highway. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
(R.C. § 4513.10)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 337.10 LIGHTS, EMBLEMS, AND REFLECTORS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES, FARM
MACHINERY, AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS, AND ANIMAL- DRAWN VEHICLES.
   (a)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   BOAT TRAILER. Means any vehicle designed and used exclusively to
transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina, or in and around a
marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a distance of no more
than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      (2)   SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE and SMV. Mean a boat trailer, unit of farm
machinery, road construction machinery, or other machinery designed by the
manufacturer to operate at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less. The term does
not include a bicycle, motorized bicycle, electric bicycle, or animal-drawn
vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.11)
   (b)   Generally.
      (1)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate
either of the following vehicles unless it is equipped with and displays the
lamps described in division (b)(2) of this section:
         A.   A vehicle not specifically required to be equipped with lamps or
other lighting devices by R.C. §§ 4513.03 to 4513.10;
         B.   A vehicle referred to in R.C. § 4513.02(G).
      (2)   Vehicles described in division (b)(1) of this section shall be
equipped with both of the following:
         A.   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle;
         B.   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an alternative, one lamp
displaying a red light visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to
the rear and two red reflectors visible from all distances of 600 feet to 100
feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (3)   A.   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall
operate a multi-wheel agricultural tractor model year 2001 or earlier on a
street or highway unless it is equipped with and displays reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by all of the following:
            1.   Flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the front
and the rear. The lamps need not flash simultaneously and need not flash in
conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor.
            2.   Amber reflectors, all visible to the front;
            3.   Red reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         B.   Rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4513.111 governing the lamps and reflectors described in division (b)(3)A. of
this section and their placement correlate with
            and, as far as possible, conform with paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1,
and 4.1.7.2 respectively of the American Society of Agricultural Engineers
Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT 98, Lighting and Marking of Agricultural
Equipment on Highways.
      (4)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate a
unit of farm machinery model year 2002 or later on a street or highway unless
it is equipped with and displays markings and illuminated lamps that meet or
exceed the lighting, illumination, and marking standards and specifications
that are applicable to that type of farm machinery for the unit's model year
specified in the American society of agricultural engineers standard ANSI/ASAE
S279.10 OCT 98, lighting and marking of agricultural equipment on highways.
      (5)   Any unit of farm machinery designed by its manufacturer to operate
at a speed of 25 miles per hour or greater or any SMV may be equipped with and
display a red flashing light that is visible from a distance of not less than
1,000 feet to the rear at all times specified in R.C. § 4513.03. When a double-
faced light is used, it shall display amber light to the front and red light to
the rear.
      (6)   Lights and reflectors required under divisions (b)(3) and (b)(4) of
this section and authorized under division (b)(5) of this section are in
addition to other lights required or permitted by this division (b) or R.C. §
4513.17.
      (7)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 that establish standards and specifications for lamps and
reflectors required or authorized by this section. Lamps and reflectors
required or authorized by this section shall meet those standards and
specifications.
      (8)   This division (b) does not apply to a bicycle, motorized bicycle,
electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
      (9)   Whoever violates this division (b) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.111)
   (c)   Slow-moving vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall
operate an SMV on a street or highway as follows:
         A.   At a speed exceeding 25 miles per hour;
         B.   Without displaying the triangular SMV emblem mounted in
accordance with division (c)(2) of this section.
      (2)   The SMV emblem shall be mounted so as to be visible from a distance
of not less than 500 feet to the rear. In accordance with R.C. Chapter 119, the
Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and specifications for the
design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The standards and
specifications for the SMV emblem correlate with and, so far as possible,
conform with those approved by the American Society of Agricultural Engineers.
      (3)   A person may operate an SMV on a street or highway without
displaying the triangular SMV emblem when any of the following apply:
         A.   The SMV is being used in actual construction and maintenance work
in an area guarded by a flagperson, or where flares are used.
         B.   The SMV is operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Ohio Director of Transportation, a city
engineer, or the county engineer of the several counties, when such
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Ohio
Director of Transportation and the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices,
as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09.
      (4)   No person shall display an SMV emblem on any of the following:
         A.   Any vehicle not required to use the SMV emblem by this division
(c) or R.C. § 4513.113 or 4513.114;
         B.   An SMV being transported upon any other vehicle;
         C.   Any stationary object on the highway.
      (5)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate an SMV, except a unit
designed to be completely mounted on a primary power unit that is manufactured
or assembled on or after April 1, 1966, unless it is equipped with an SMV
emblem mounting device.
      (6)   Whoever violates this division (c) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.112)
   (d)   Farm machinery and agricultural tractors.
      (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate on a street or
highway any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the unit displays both
of the following:
         A.   The SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
         B.   A speed identification symbol that does both of the following:
            1.   Meets the specifications contained in the American Society of
Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment:
Speed Identification Symbol (SIS);
            2.   Indicates the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the
unit of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate.
      (2)   No person operating a tractor on a street or highway that is
designed by its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour and that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of farm machinery
while operating at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour shall fail to display
both of the following on the unit of farm machinery:
         A.   The SMV emblem;
         B.   The speed identification symbol that matches the speed
identification symbol required to be displayed on the agricultural tractor.
      (3)   No person shall operate an agricultural tractor that is designed by
its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless
the person possesses documentation published or provided by the manufacturer
indicating the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the manufacturer
designed the agricultural tractor to operate.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (d) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.113)
   (e)   Animal-drawn vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (e)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, both
of the following:
         A.   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the animal-drawn vehicle;
         B.   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the animal-drawn vehicle, or as an
alternative, one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all
distances of 600 feet to one hundred feet to the rear when illuminated by the
lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (e)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at all times, all of the following:
         A.   One yellow flashing lamp displaying yellow light that is visible
from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet and that is mounted in either of
the following positions:
            1.   On the top most portion of the rear of the animal-drawn
vehicle;
            2.   On the top of the animal-drawn vehicle.
         B.   At least one of the following:
            1.   An SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
            2.   Micro-prism reflective tape that is visible from a distance of
not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams
of headlamps;
            3.   Both an SMV emblem and micro-prism reflective tape, as
specified in this division.
         C.   Lamps and micro- prism reflective tape required by this section
shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Ohio Director of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.114.
      (3)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety, in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119, shall adopt rules establishing standards and specifications for the
position and mounting of the lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required by
R.C. § 4513.114. The rules permit the micro-prism reflective tape to be red,
amber, white, or silver in color.
      (4)   A.   Divisions (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section do not apply to
the operator of animal-drawn agricultural equipment who is not transporting any
livestock or a person other than the operator.
         B.   No operator described in division (e)(4)A. of this section shall
operate animal-drawn agricultural equipment unless it is equipped with and
displays, at all times, the SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. §
4513.112(B).
         C.   As used in division (e)(4) of this section, “animal-drawn
agricultural equipment” means equipment drawn by the muscular power of an
animal that is used solely for agricultural purposes. “Animal-drawn
agricultural equipment” includes any of the following:
            1.   A plow;
            2.   A manure spreader;
            3.   A thresher.
      (5)   Whoever violates this division (e) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.114)
   (f)   Strict liability offenses. The offenses established under this section
are strict liability
offenses, and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of these offenses
as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
(R.C. § 4513.115)
§ 337.11 SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY LIGHTS.
   (a)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one
spotlight and every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high- intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side
of the vehicle, nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than three
auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. Any such lights
which do not conform to the specifications for auxiliary driving lights and the
regulations for their use prescribed by the Director of Public Safety shall not
be used.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.12)
§ 337.12 COWL, FENDER AND BACK-UP LIGHTS.
   (a)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender
lights which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with lights on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.13)
§ 337.13 TWO LIGHTS DISPLAYED.
   (a)   At all times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, at least two lighted lights shall be displayed, one near
each side of the front of every motor vehicle, except when the vehicle is
parked subject to the regulations governing lights on parked vehicles.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.14)
§ 337.14 USE OF HEADLIGHT BEAMS.
   (a)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the driver shall use a
distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles and substantial objects at a
safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle,
the driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so aimed that
the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
      (2)   Every new motor vehicle registered in this state which has
multiple-beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
headlights is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. This indicator shall
be so designed and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.15)
§ 337.15 LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES.
   (a)   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in
R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance when it is
equipped with two lighted lights upon the front thereof capable of revealing
persons and substantial objects 75 feet ahead, in lieu of lights required in
R.C. § 4513.14, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, provided
that the vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 20 miles per
hour.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.16)
§ 337.16 NUMBER OF LIGHTS PERMITTED; RED AND FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (a)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights is also equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not more than a
total of five of any such lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at
any one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (b)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
   (c)   (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or a left turn, or in the presence of a vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, or overtaking or passing.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (c)(1) of this section does not apply
to any of the following:
         A.   Emergency vehicles, road service vehicles servicing or towing a
disabled vehicle, stationary waste collection vehicles actively collecting
garbage, refuse, trash, or recyclable materials on the roadside, rural mail
delivery vehicles, vehicles as provided in R.C. § 4513.182, highway maintenance
vehicles, and similar equipment operated by state or local authorities,
provided such vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a street or
highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing,
oscillating, or rotating amber light;
         B.   Vehicles or machinery permitted by R.C. § 4513.111 to have a
flashing red light;
         C.   Farm machinery and vehicles escorting farm machinery, provided
such machinery and vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a
street or highway, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber light. Farm
machinery also may display the lights described in R.C. § 4513.111.
         D.   A funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle, provided that the
funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle is equipped with and displays, when
used on a street or highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights,
a flashing, oscillating, or rotating purple or amber light.
         E.   A vehicle being used for emergency preparedness, response, and
recovery activities, as those terms are defined in R.C. § 5502.21, that is
equipped with and displays, when used on a street or highway for the special
purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber
or red and white light, provided that the vehicle is being operated by a person
from one of the following and the vehicle is clearly marked with the applicable
agency’s or authority’s insignia:
            1.   The Ohio Emergency Management Agency;
            2.   A countywide emergency management agency established under
R.C. § 5502.26;
            3.   A regional authority for emergency management established
under R.C. § 5502.27;
            4.   A program for emergency management established under R.C. §
5502.271.
      (3)   Division (c)(1) of this section does not apply to animal-drawn
vehicles subject to R.C. § 4513.114.
   (d)   (1)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in
R.C. § 4511.01(E), an emergency management agency vehicle, as described in
division (c)(2)E. of this section, or a school bus, no person shall operate,
move, or park upon, or permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public
street or highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying
a flashing red or a flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating
or rotating red light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating
light.
      (2)   Except a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to
enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety
vehicle when on duty, no person shall operate, move, or park upon, or permit to
stand within the right-of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment
that is equipped with, or upon which is mounted, and displaying a flashing blue
or a flashing combination blue and white light, or an oscillating or rotating
blue light, or a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (e)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights whether on farm machinery or
vehicles escorting farm machinery when used on a street or highway.
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.17)
§ 337.17 FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (a)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.18, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, upon any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless these lights are equipped, mounted and
adjusted as to focus and aim in accordance with regulations which are
prescribed by the Director of Public Safety.
   (b)   The headlights on any motor vehicle shall comply with the headlamp
color requirements contained in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number
108, 49 C.F.R. § 571.108. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in violation
of this division.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.19)
§ 337.18 MOTOR VEHICLE AND MOTORCYCLE BRAKES.
   (a)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the motor vehicle, including two separate means of applying
the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at
least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, then on those motor vehicles, manufactured or assembled
after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one
part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without
brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the highways, the following vehicles shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to
hold the vehicle, designed to be applied by the driver of the towing motor
vehicle from its cab, and also designed and connected so that, in case of a
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of 2,000 pounds or
more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942;
         B.   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight of
2,000 pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of 3,000 pounds or more that is manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate brakes equipped with
hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds, and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall,
at all times and under all conditions of loading, be capable of being stopped
on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
         A.   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all wheels
shall come to a stop in 30 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per hour.
         B.   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on all
wheels shall come to a stop in 40 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per
hour.
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.20)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 337.19 HORN, SIREN AND THEFT ALARM SIGNAL.
   (a)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting
sound audible, under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200
feet.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal. Every emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by
the Director of Public Safety. The equipment shall not be used except when the
vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or is in the immediate
pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which case the driver
of the emergency vehicle shall sound the equipment when it is necessary to warn
pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.21)
§ 337.20 MUFFLER; MUFFLER CUTOUT; EXCESSIVE SMOKE, GAS OR NOISE.
   (a)   (1)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion
engine shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle
plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person’s possession any
motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow
into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of the vehicle, or equipped in any way
to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of the
vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an internal
combustion engine under normal operation.
(R.C. § 4513.22)
   (b)   Every motor vehicle must be equipped with a tailpipe or tailpipes
which are affixed to the muffler or mufflers and shall extend to the rear
bumper of the motor vehicle, or if the tailpipe or tailpipes are of the design
which extends out to the side or sides of the motor vehicle they must be of
such design as to egress beyond the rear tires. The entire exhaust system must
be affixed securely to the motor vehicle or motorcycle.
(Ord. 13-1977, passed 3-14-1977)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 337.21 REAR-VIEW MIRROR; CLEAR VIEW TO FRONT, BOTH SIDES AND REAR.
   (a)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the highway to the rear of the
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles and
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles and
motorcycles by mirror.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.23)
§ 337.22 WINDSHIELD REQUIRED; SIGN OR POSTER UPON WINDSHIELD; WINDSHIELD WIPER.
   (a)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
municipality, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not
equipped with a windshield.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side or rear windows of the vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign, poster or
decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as to conceal
the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when, in accordance
with federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle passenger
compartment and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle glazing without
moving any part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (b)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         A.   It is a “vehicle safety technology” as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. § 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         B.   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it does not conceal the vehicle
identification number.
      (3)   Division (b)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         A.   It is a “vehicle safety technology” as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. § 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         B.   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it is mounted not more than 8.5 inches
below the upper edge of the windshield.
   (c)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow or other moisture from the windshield. The device shall
be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be controlled or
operated by the operator of the vehicle.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.24)
§ 337.23 LIMITED LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF PASSENGER VEHICLE.
   (a)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a highway with any load
carried on the vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the vehicle’s left side.
(R.C. § 4513.30)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 337.24 MOTOR VEHICLE STOP LIGHTS.
   (a)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer and pole trailer when
operated upon a highway shall be equipped with two or more stop lights, except
that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1967,
motorcycles and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least one stop
light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. These stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a train of
vehicles only the stop lights on the rearmost vehicle need be visible from the
distance specified.
      (2)   These stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light
to the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
R.C. § 4513.19.
      (4)   Historical motor vehicles as defined in R.C. § 4503.181, not
originally manufactured with stop lights, are not subject to this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.071)
§ 337.25 AIR CLEANER REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate upon any street, alley or other public place any
motor vehicle which is not equipped with a functioning air cleaner, except for
motor vehicles equipped with electronic fuel-injection engines.
§ 337.26 USE OF CHILD RESTRAINTS.
   (a)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child
restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age; and
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (b)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, that is owned,
leased or otherwise under the control of a nursery school or child care center,
the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child restraint system
that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age; and
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (c)   When any child who is less than eight years of age and less than four
feet nine inches in height, who is not required by division (a) or (b) of this
section to be secured in a child restraint system, is being transported in a
motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01 or a vehicle that is regulated under R.C. § 5104.015, that is
required by the United States Department of Transportation to be equipped with
seat belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor
vehicle shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions on a booster seat that meets federal motor vehicle
safety standards.
   (d)   When any child who is at least eight years of age but not older than
15 years of age, and who is not otherwise required by division (a), (b), or (c)
of this section to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions
in a child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards
or in an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. § 4513.263.
   (e)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (c) or (d) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation or
summons for a violation of division (c) or (d) of this section or causing the
arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of division
(c) or (d) of this section, and absent another violation of law, a law
enforcement officer’s view of the interior or visual inspection of a motor
vehicle being operated on any street or highway may not be used for the purpose
of determining whether a violation of division (c) or (d) of this section has
been or is being committed.
   (f)   The Director of Public Safety shall adopt such rules as are necessary
to carry out this section.
   (g)   The failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to secure a child in a
child restraint system, a booster seat, or in an occupant restraining device as
required in this section is not negligence imputable to the child, is not
admissible as evidence in any civil action involving the rights of the child
against any other person allegedly liable for injuries to the child, is not to
be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the operator of the motor
vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section, and is not
admissible as evidence in any criminal action involving the operator of the
motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (h)   This section does not apply when an emergency exists that threatens
the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is being
used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be restrained
under this section. This section does not apply to a person operating a motor
vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the child who otherwise would be
required to be restrained under this section has a physical impairment that
makes use of a child restraint system, booster seat, or an occupant restraining
device impossible or impractical, provided that the person operating the
vehicle has safely and appropriately restrained the child in accordance with
any recommendations of the physician or chiropractor as noted on the affidavit.
   (i)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to
carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to prove the age of the
child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for a child showing that
the child was not of an age to which this section applies is a defense against
any ticket, citation, or summons issued for violating this section.
   (j)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a), (b), (c), or (d) of this section
shall be punished as follows, provided that the failure of an operator of a
motor vehicle to secure more than one child in a child restraint system,
booster seat, or occupant restraining device as required by this section that
occurred at the same time, on the same day, and at the same location is deemed
to be a single violation of this section:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (j)(1)B. of this
section, the offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $75.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (a), (b),(c) or (d) of this section or of a
state law or municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent any of those
divisions, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   All fines imposed pursuant to division (j)(1) of this section shall
be forwarded to the State Treasurer for deposit in the Child Highway Safety
Fund created by R.C. § 4511.81(I).
(R.C. § 4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L))
§ 337.27 USE OF OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICES.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   AUTOMOBILE. Any commercial tractor, passenger car, commercial car
or truck that is required to be factory- equipped with an occupant restraining
device for the operator or any passenger by regulations adopted by the United
States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the National Traffic and Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1966, 80 Stat. 719, 15 U.S.C. § 1392.
      (2)   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR, PASSENGER CAR AND COMMERCIAL CAR. Have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      (3)   OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. A seat safety belt, shoulder belt,
harness or other safety device for restraining a person who is an operator of
or passenger in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum federal vehicle
safety standards established by the United States Department of Transportation.
      (4)   PASSENGER. Any person in an automobile, other than its operator,
who is occupying a seating position for which an occupant restraining device is
provided.
      (5)   TORT ACTION. A civil action for damages for injury, death or loss
to person or property. TORT ACTION includes a product liability claim, as
defined in R.C. § 2307.71, and as asbestos claim, as defined in R.C. § 2307.91,
but does not include a civil action for damages for breach of contract or
another agreement between persons.
      (6)   VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE. As used in the definitions of the terms
set forth above, have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (b)   Prohibited acts. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless he or she is
wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device, or operate a school bus that has an occupant restraining
device installed for use in its operator’s seat unless he or she is wearing all
of the available elements of the device, as properly adjusted.
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless each
passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirement set forth in
division (b)(3) of this section is wearing all of the available elements of a
properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway unless he or she is wearing
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device.
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
   (c)   Exceptions. Division (b)(3) of this section does not apply to a person
who is required by R.C. § 4511.81 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance to be secured in a child restraint device or booster seat. Division
(b)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is an employee of the
United States Postal Service or of a newspaper home delivery service, during
any period in which the person is engaged in the operation of an automobile to
deliver mail or newspapers to addressees. Divisions (b)(1) and (b)(3) of this
section do not apply to a person who has an affidavit signed by a physician
licensed to practice in this state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor
licensed to practice in this state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the
person has a physical impairment that makes use of an occupant restraining
device impossible or impractical.
   (d)   Officers not permitted to stop cars to determine violation.
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law enforcement
officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on any street
or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of division (b) of this section has been or is being committed or for
the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation or summons for the violation or
for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for the
violation. No law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually
inspect any automobile being operated on any street or highway for the sole
purpose of determining whether the violation has been or is being committed.
   (e)   Use of fines for educational program. All fines collected for
violations of division (b) of this section shall be forwarded to the State
Treasurer for deposit in the funds as set forth in R.C. § 4513.263(E).
   (f)   Limitations on evidence used for prosecution.
      (1)   Subject to division (f)(2) of this section, the failure of a person
to wear all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device in violation of division (b)(1) or (b)(3) of this section or
the failure of a person to ensure that each minor who is a passenger of an
automobile being operated by that person is wearing all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device in violation of
division (b)(2) of this section shall not be considered or used by the trier of
fact in a tort action as evidence of negligence or contributory negligence.
But, the trier of fact may determine based on evidence admitted consistent with
the Ohio Rules of Evidence that the failure contributed to the harm alleged in
the tort action and may diminish a recovery of compensatory damages that
represents non-economic loss, as defined in R.C. § 2307.011, in a tort action
that could have been recovered but for the plaintiff’s failure to wear all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
Evidence of that failure shall not be used as a basis for a criminal
prosecution of the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this
section; and shall not be admissible as evidence in a criminal action involving
the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
      (2)   If, at the time of an accident involving a passenger car equipped
with occupant restraining devices, any occupant of the passenger car who
sustained injury or death was not wearing an available occupant restraining
device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a device, or was
not wearing such a device as properly adjusted, then, consistent with the Rules
of Evidence, the fact that the occupant was not wearing the available occupant
restraining device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a
device, or was not wearing such a device as properly adjusted is admissible in
evidence in relation to any claim for relief in a tort action to the extent
that the claim for relief satisfies all of the following:
         A.   It seeks to recover damages for injury or death to the occupant;
         B.   The defendant in question is the manufacturer, designer,
distributor or seller of the passenger car; and
         C.   The claim for relief against the defendant in question is that
the injury or death sustained by the occupant was enhanced or aggravated by
some design defect in the passenger car or that the passenger car was not
crashworthy.
   (g)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (b)(1) of this section shall be fined
$30.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b)(2) of this section shall be subject
to the penalty set forth in § 408.02.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (b)(3) of this section shall be fined
$20.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (b)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (b)(4) of this section, whoever violates division (b)(4) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4513.263)
§ 337.28 USE OF SUNSCREENING, NONTRANSPARENT AND REFLECTORIZED MATERIALS.
   (a)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease, or rent any
motor vehicle that is required to be registered in this state with any
sunscreening material, or other product or material which has the effect of
making the windshield or windows nontransparent or would alter the windows’
color, increase its reflectivity, or reduce its light transmittance, unless the
product or material satisfies one of the following exceptions:
      (1)   Any manufacturer’s tinting or glazing of motor vehicle windows or
windshields that is otherwise in compliance with or permitted by Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standard Number 205 (FMVSS 205) in effect at the time of the
manufacture of the motor vehicle until such standard is subsequently repealed
or reduced. In Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 205, (FMVSS 205)
MANUFACTURER means any person engaged in the manufacturing or assembling of
motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment, including any person importing motor
vehicles or motor vehicle equipment for resale. Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standard Number 205 (FMVSS), 49 C.F.R. Part 571, can be obtained online at web
site www.access.gpo.gov/nara;
      (2)   Any sunscreening material or other product or material applied to
the windshield when used in conjunction with the safety glazing materials of
the window, has a light transmittance of not less than 70% plus or minus 3% and
is not red or yellow in color;
      (3)   Any sunscreening material or other product or material applied to
the side windows to the immediate right or left the driver, so long as the
material, when used in conjunction with the safety glazing materials of such
windows, has a light transmittance of not less than 50% plus or minus 3% and is
not red or yellow in color.
      (4)   Any sunscreening material or other product or material applied to a
window not otherwise listed in divisions (a)(1) through (a)(3) or (a)(5) of
this section, except that outside left and right rear view mirrors are required
if the sunscreening material is applied to the rear window and the sunscreening
material, when used in conjunction with the safety glazing material of the
window, has a light transmittance of less than 50% plus or minus 3%; or
      (5)   Any sunscreening material or other product or material applied
along the top of the windshield and that does not extend downward beyond the
AS-1 line or five inches from the top of the windshield, whichever is closer to
the top, is not regulated by this rule or this section.
   (b)   No person shall install in any motor vehicle any glass or other
material that fails to conform to the specifications of this section.
   (c)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as defined
in R.C. § 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to conform to the
specifications of this chapter.
   (d)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings or rear window.
   (e)   No person shall operate on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease, or rent any
motor vehicle that is required to be registered in this state that is equipped
with privacy drapes, louvers, curtains or blinds unless the drapes, louvers,
curtains or blinds are open and secure during vehicle operation.
   (f)   All motor vehicles, beginning with the 1990 model year, must be
equipped with labels identifying sunscreening material. All sunscreening
material must indicate the manufacturer’s name and the percentage level of
light transmission of the material permanently installed between the material
and the surface to which the material is applied or affixed. The label must be
legible and must be placed in the lower left-hand corner of the vehicle window
when viewed from the outside.
(O.A.C. 4501-41-03)
   (g)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The provisions of this section do not apply to a motor vehicle
registered in this state in the name of a person, or the person’s parent, legal
guardian, or spouse who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to
practice in this state under R.C. Chapter 4731, or an affidavit signed by an
optometrist licensed to practice in this state under R.C. Chapter 4725, that
states that the person has a physical condition that makes it necessary to
equip such motor vehicle with sunscreening material which would be of a light
transmittance and/or luminous reflectance in violation of this chapter. The
affidavit shall be in the possession of the person so afflicted, or the driver,
at all times while in the motor vehicle.
      (2)   The provisions of this section do not apply to the windows to the
rear of the driver in chauffeured limousines as defined in division (h).
      (3)   The provisions of this section do not apply to the windows to the
rear of the driver in those vehicles designed and used to transport corpses
which include hearses and other vehicles adapted for the use.
      (4)   The provisions of this section do not apply to the manufacturer’s
tinting or glazing of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in
compliance with or permitted by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number
205 (FMVSS 205) in effect at the time of the manufacture of the motor vehicle
as provided in divisions (a) through (f). Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard
Number 205 (FMVSS 205), 49 C.F.R. Part 571, can be obtained online at web site
www.access.gpo.gov/nara.
(O.A.C. 4501-41-05)
   (h)   Definitions. As used in this section, certain terms are defined as
follows:
      (1)   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A motor vehicle that is designed to carry
nine or fewer passengers and is operated for hire on an hourly basis pursuant
to a prearranged contract for the transportation of passengers on public roads
and highways along a route under the control of the person hiring the vehicle
and not over a defined and regular route. PREARRANGED CONTRACT means an
agreement, made in advance of boarding, to provide transportation from a
specific location in a chauffeured limousine at a fixed rate per hour or trip.
CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE does not include any vehicle that is used exclusively in
the business of funeral directing.
      (2)   MANUFACTURER. Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, means any
person who engages in the manufacturing or assembling of sunscreening products
or materials or any person who fabricates, laminates, or tempers a safety
glazing material, incorporating, during the manufacturing process, the capacity
to reflect or reduce the transmission of light.
      (3)   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than
muscular power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except
motorized bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power shovels, power
cranes, and other equipment used in construction work and not designed for or
employed in general highway transportation, hole-digging machinery, well-
drilling machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery, trailers used to
transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials between a
local place of storage or supply and the farm when drawn or towed on a public
road or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less, threshing machinery,
hay-baling machinery, and agricultural tractors and machinery used in the
production of horticultural, floricultural, agricultural, and vegetable
products.
      (4)   SUNSCREENING MATERIAL. Products or materials, including film,
glazing, and perforated sunscreening, which, when applied to the windshield or
windows of a motor vehicle, reduce the effects of the sun with respect to light
reflectance or transmittance.
      (5)   TRANSMITTANCE. The ratio of the amount of total light, expressed in
percentages, which is allowed to pass through the product or material,
including glazing, to the amount of total light falling on the product or
material and the glazing.
      (6)   WINDOW. Any device designed for exterior viewing from a motor
vehicle, except the windshield or any roof-mounted viewing device.
      (7)   WINDSHIELD. The front exterior viewing device of a motor vehicle.
(O.A.C. 4501-41-02)
§ 337.29 BUMPERS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. The manufacturer’s gross vehicle
weight rating established for that vehicle.
      (2)   MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      (3)   MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. A motor vehicle with motive power,
except a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that is constructed
either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road
operation.
      (4)   PASSENGER CAR. Any motor vehicle with motive power, designed for
carrying ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle or
motorcycle.
      (5)   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers,
designed and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle weight rating of
10,000 pounds or less.
   (b)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 119, shall govern the maximum bumper height or, in the absence of
bumpers and in cases where bumper height has been lowered or modified, the
maximum height to the bottom of the frame rail of any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck.
   (c)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state that does not
conform to the requirements of this section or any applicable rule adopted
pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021.
   (d)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this state in
such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with
the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels
to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person shall
disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to defeat
the safe operation of that system.
   (e)   Nothing contained in this section or in the rules adopted pursuant to
R.C. § 4513.021 shall be construed to prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle or truck registered in this state of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs.
      (2)   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this state with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
   (f)   This section and the rules adopted pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021 do not
apply to any specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose
passenger vehicle or truck when operated off a street or highway in races and
similar events.
   (g)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.021)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum height on bumpers, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-43
§ 337.30 MOTOR VEHICLE MUSIC.
   No person, being the owner, or person in possession, of a motor vehicle with
a device described in §
511.04, shall cause or permit any noise emanating from the motor vehicle which
is plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the motor vehicle. As provided
in §
337.19, the lawful use of a motor vehicle horn shall not be a violation of this
section.
(Ord. 99-134, passed 9-13-1999)
§ 337.31 DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 1954, unless the vehicle is equipped with
electrical or mechanical directional signals.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motorcycle or motor-driven cycle
manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1968, unless the vehicle is
equipped with electrical or mechanical directional signals.
   (b)   DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS. An electrical or mechanical signal device capable
of clearly indicating an intention to turn either to the right or to the left
and which shall be visible from both the front and rear.
   (c)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminating devices when
in use at the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.261)
§ 337.32 AIR BAGS.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   AIR BAG. Has the same meaning as in 49 C.F.R. § 579.4, as amended.
      (2)   COUNTERFEIT AIR BAG. An air bag displaying a mark identical or
similar to the genuine mark of a motor vehicle manufacturer, without the
authorization of the motor vehicle manufacturer.
      (3)   NONFUNCTIONAL AIR BAG. Any of the following:
         A.   A replacement air bag that has been previously deployed or
damaged;
         B.   A replacement air bag that has an electrical fault that is
detected by the air bag diagnostic system of a vehicle after the air bag is
installed;
         C.   A counterfeit air bag, air bag cover, or some other object that
is installed in a vehicle to deceive an owner or operator of the vehicle into
believing that a functional air bag has been installed.
   (b)   No person shall install or reinstall in any motor vehicle a
counterfeit or nonfunctional air bag or any object intended to fulfill the
function of an air bag other than an air bag that was designed in conformance
with or that is regulated by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208
for the make, model, and model year of the vehicle, knowing that the object is
not in accordance with that standard.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly manufacture, import, sell, or offer for sale
any of the following:
      (1)   A counterfeit air bag;
      (2)   A nonfunctional air bag;
      (3)   Any other object that is intended to be installed in a motor
vehicle to fulfill the function of an air bag and that is not in conformance
with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208
         for the make, model, and model year of the vehicle in which the object
is intended to be installed.
   (d)   No person shall knowingly sell, install, or reinstall a device in a
motor vehicle that causes the diagnostic system of a vehicle to inaccurately
indicate that the vehicle is equipped with a functional air bag.
   (e)   (1)   Whoever violates division (b) or (d) of this section is guilty
of improper replacement of a motor vehicle air bag, a misdemeanor of the first
degree on a first offense. On each subsequent offense, or if the violation
results in serious physical harm to an individual, the person is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (c) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Each manufacture, importation, installation, reinstallation, sale,
or offer for sale in violation of this section shall constitute a separate and
distinct violation.
(R.C. § 4549.20)
§ 337.33 LIGHTS AND SOUND-PRODUCING DEVICES ON CORONERS’ VEHICLES.
   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a motor vehicle operated
by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator may be equipped with a
flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and siren, whistle or bell
capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of
not less than 500 feet. Such a vehicle may display the flashing, oscillating or
rotating red or blue light and may give the audible signal of the siren,
whistle or bell only when responding to a fatality or a fatal motor vehicle
accident on a street or highway and only at those locations where the stoppage
of traffic impedes the ability of the coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s
investigator to arrive at the site of the fatality.
   (b)   This section does not relieve the coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s
investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard
for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.171)
§ 337.34 VEHICLES TRANSPORTING PRESCHOOL CHILDREN.
   (a)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle owned, leased or hired by a
nursery school, kindergarten or day-care center, while transporting preschool
children to or from such an institution, unless the motor vehicle is equipped
with and displaying two amber flashing lights mounted on a bar attached to the
top of the vehicle, and a sign bearing the designation “caution — children,”
which shall be attached to the bar carrying the amber flashing lights in such a
manner as to be legible to persons both in front of and behind the vehicle. The
lights and sign shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Director
of Public Safety.
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the lights and sign
required by this section for any purpose other than the transportation of
preschool children as provided in this section.
(R.C. § 4513.182)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 337.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:  
   See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 339: COMMERCIAL AND HEAVY VEHICLES
Section
339.01   Load limits
339.02   Use of local streets; local permit and conditions
339.03   Maximum width, height and length
339.04   Route and load information
339.05   Wheel protectors
339.06   Vehicles transporting explosives
339.07   Towing requirements; exception to size and weight restrictions
339.08   Loads dropping or leaking; tracking mud; removal required
339.09   Shifting load; loose loads
339.10   Vehicles with spikes, lugs and chains
339.11   Use of studded tires and chains
339.12   Parking commercial and heavy vehicles prohibited
339.13   Use of engine brakes prohibited
339.14   Chauffeured limousines
339.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Slower moving vehicles to be driven in right-hand lane, see §
331.01(b)
Statutory reference:
   Arrest notice of driver, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Weighing vehicle; removal of excess load, see R.C. § 4513.33
§ 339.01 LOAD LIMITS.
   (a)   State regulations.
      (1)   A.   The municipality, with respect to highways under their
jurisdiction, upon application in writing, shall issue a special regional heavy
hauling permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles as follows:
            1.   At a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum
specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. §§ 4513.01 to 4513.37.
            2.   Upon any highway under the jurisdiction of municipality except
those highways with a condition insufficient to bear the weight of the vehicle
or combination of vehicles as stated in the application.
            3.   For regional trips at distances of 150 miles or less from a
facility stated on the application as the applicant’s point of origin.
            4.   Issuance of a special regional heavy hauling permit is subject
to the payment of a fee established by the municipality in accordance with this
section.
         B.   In circumstances where a person is not eligible to receive a
permit under division (a)(1)A. of this section, the municipality, with respect
to highways under its jurisdiction, upon application in writing and for good
cause shown, may issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to
operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of
vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with R.C. §§ 4513.01 through 4513.37,
upon any highway under its jurisdiction.
      (2)   A.   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 715.22 and 723.01, the holder of a
permit issued by the Director of Transportation under R.C. § 4513.34 may move
the vehicle or combination of vehicles described in the permit on any highway
that is a part of the state highway system when the movement is partly within
and partly without the corporate limits of the municipality. No local authority
shall require any other permit or license or charge any license fee or other
charge against the holder of a permit for the movement of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles on any highway which is a part of the state highway
system. The Ohio Director of Transportation shall not require the holder of a
permit issued by the municipality to obtain a special permit for the movement
of vehicles or combination of vehicles on highways within the jurisdiction of
the municipality.
         B.   Except as provided in R.C. § 4513.34(B)(3), permits may be issued
for any period of time not to exceed one year, as the local authority in its
discretion determines advisable or for the duration of any public construction
project.
      (3)   A.   The application for a permit issued under this section shall
be in the form that the municipality prescribes. The municipality may prescribe
a permit fee to be imposed and collected when any permit described in this
section is issued. The permit fee may be in an amount sufficient to reimburse
the municipality for the administrative costs incurred in issuing the permit,
and also to cover the cost of normal and expected damage caused to the roadway
or a street or highway structure as the result of the operation of the
nonconforming vehicle or combination of vehicles.
         B.   For the purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the
Director under R.C. § 4513.34, milk transported in bulk by vehicle is deemed a
nondivisible load.
         C.   For purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the Director
under R.C. § 4513.34, three or fewer aluminum coils, transported by a vehicle,
are deemed a nondivisible load. The Director shall adopt rules establishing
requirements for an aluminum coil permit that are substantially similar to the
requirements for a steel coil permit under O.A.C. Chapter 5501:2-1.
      (4)   The municipality shall issue a special regional heavy hauling
permit under division (a)(1)A. of this section upon application and payment of
the applicable fee. However, the municipality may issue or withhold a permit
specified in division (a)(1)B. of this section. If a permit is to be issued,
the municipality may limit or prescribe conditions of operation for the vehicle
and may require the posting of a bond or other security conditioned upon the
sufficiency of the permit fee to compensate for damage caused to the roadway or
a street or highway structure. In addition, the municipality, as a condition of
issuance of an overweight permit, may require the applicant to develop and
enter into a mutual agreement with the municipality to compensate for or to
repair excess damage caused to the roadway by travel under the permit.
      (5)   Every permit issued under this section shall be carried in the
vehicle or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to
inspection by any police officer or authorized agent of any authority granting
the permit. No person shall violate any of the terms of a permit.
      (6)   The Director of Transportation may debar an applicant from applying
for a special permit under this section upon a finding based on a reasonable
belief that the applicant has done any of the actions specified in R.C. §
4513.34(F).
      (7)   Notice and procedures for debarment shall be as provided in R.C. §
4513.34(G).
      (8)   A.   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under
this section that relate to gross load limits.
         B.   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to axle load by more than 2,000 pounds per axle or group of
axles.
         C.   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to an approved route except upon order of a law enforcement
officer or authorized agent of the issuing authority.
      (9)   A permit issued by the municipality under this section for the
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles is valid for the purposes of
the vehicle operation in accordance with the conditions and limitations
specified on the permit. Such a permit is voidable by law enforcement only for
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of the weight,
dimension, or route provisions of the permit. However, a permit is not voidable
for operation in violation of a route provision of a permit if the operation is
upon the order of a law enforcement officer.
(R.C. § 4513.34)
   (b)   Violations. Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 339.02 USE OF LOCAL STREETS; LOCAL PERMIT AND CONDITIONS.
   (a)   Local streets. No person shall operate a vehicle exceeding a size as
specified R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. §§ 4513.01 through 4513.37, or exceeding a gross weight of five tons, upon
any street in the municipality other than state routes and county roads, except
those local streets designated as a truck route and marked as such by
appropriate traffic signs, and except when the operation is necessary to load
or unload property, to go to or from the usual place of storage of the vehicle
or to perform any other legitimate business or act other than passage through
the municipality. Operators of vehicles so deviating from either a state route
or a designated truck route within the municipality shall confine the deviation
to that required in order to accomplish the purpose of the departure. On county
roads, Council or other duly designated local authority shall establish
reasonable weight limits commensurate with the construction and material
specifications for the roads and the load resistance of the roads as determined
by the County Engineer. County roads shall be posted with signs indicating the
weight limits.
   (b)   Local permit and conditions. Upon application and for good cause, the
Police Chief may issue a local permit authorizing an applicant to move an
oversize or overweight vehicle or combination of vehicles upon local streets
and highways.
      (1)   No permittee shall be required to obtain a special permit from the
Ohio Director of Transportation for the movement of the vehicle or combination
of vehicles on streets or highways under local jurisdiction. However, the
approval of the Ohio Director of Transportation shall be required for movement
upon state routes as provided in §
339.01.
      (2)   The Police Chief may grant a permit for a single or round trip, or
for such period of time, not to exceed one year, as the Police Chief in his or
her discretion deems advisable, or for the duration of any construction
project. The Police Chief may limit or prescribe terms or conditions of
operation for the vehicle or combination of vehicles by designating the route,
hours, speed or such other restrictions as may be necessary for the
preservation of the public peace, property, health and safety. The Police Chief
may require the posting of bond or other security necessary to compensate for
any damage to a roadway or road structure.
      (3)   For each permit, the Police Chief shall charge a fee as established
and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time. For each hour of time or any part thereof spent
by each police officer in supervising the movement of the vehicle, the
applicant shall pay a fee as established and set forth in the fee schedule in
Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time.
      (4)   Except as provided in §
339.01 (a) and (b), streets and highways shall be posted with signs indicating
“no thru trucks - gross weight 5 tons” or words of similar import to inform
drivers of the limitations imposed by this section. No driver shall disobey the
instructions indicated on any such sign.
      (5)   Violation of any of the limitations, terms or conditions of the
permit granted by the Police Chief shall be cause for immediate revocation or
suspension of the permit and denial of request for any future permit. This
violation shall also subject the violator to the penalties prescribed by §
303.99.
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 339.03 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT AND LENGTH.
   (a)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways, streets,
bridges and culverts within this municipality whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (b)   No such vehicle shall have a width:
      (1)   In excess of 104 inches for passenger bus type vehicles operated
exclusively within the municipality.
      (2)   In excess of 102 inches, excluding such safety devices as are
required by law, for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways, and
other state roads with minimum pavement widths of 22 feet, except those roads
or portions of roads over which operation of 102-inch buses is prohibited by
order of the Director of Transportation.
      (3)   In excess of 132 inches for traction engines.
      (4)   In excess of 102 inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety
devices and retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in
width and except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch
recreational vehicles on designated state highways or portions of highways.
      (5)   In excess of 102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles,
except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch vehicles on the
state highways or portions of state highways as the Director designates.
   (c)   No such vehicle shall have a length:
      (1)   In excess of 66 feet for passenger bus type vehicles and
articulated passenger bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit
authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 to 306.54.
      (2)   In excess of 45 feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles.
      (3)   In excess of 53 feet for any semitrailer when operated in a
commercial tractor- semitrailer combination, with or without load, except that
the Director may prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination on the state highways or portions of state highways as
the Director designates.
      (4)   In excess of 28.5 feet for any semitrailer or trailer when operated
in a commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-semitrailer-
semitrailer combination, except that the Director may prohibit the operation of
any such commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-
semitrailer-semitrailer combination on the state highways or portions of state
highways as the Director designates.
      (5)   A.   In excess of 97 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route
or state route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a
distance not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route
or state route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles, but which may
include one fullmount;
         B.   In excess of 75 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any roadway not designated as an
interstate, United States route or state route, not to exceed three
saddlemounted vehicles, but which may include one fullmount.
      (6)   In excess of 65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled
together, with or without load, except as provided in division (c)(3) and (c)
(4), and in division (e) below.
      (7)   In excess of 45 feet for recreational vehicles.
      (8)   In excess of 50 feet for all other vehicles, except trailers and
semitrailers, with or without load.
   (d)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of 13.5 feet, with or
without load.
   (e)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of 65 feet, and a stinger-steered automobile transporter or stinger-
steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of 75 feet, except that the
load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the rear of such vehicles
and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front of the vehicles, and
except further that the Director may prohibit the operation of a stinger-
steered automobile transporter, stinger-steered boat transporter, or a B-train
assembly on any state highway or portion of any state highway that the Director
designates.
   (f)   (1)   The widths prescribed in division (b) of this section shall not
include side mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry
and egress, flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant
devices, and load-induced tire bulge.
      (2)   The widths prescribed in division (b)(5) of this section shall not
include automatic covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware, and tiedown
assemblies, provided these safety devices do not extend more than three inches
from either side of the vehicle.
      (3)   The lengths prescribed in divisions (c)(2) to (c)(7) shall not
include safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear of the bus or
combination, non-property carrying devices or components that do not extend
more than 24 inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for loading
or unloading, B-train assembly used between the first and second semitrailer of
a commercial tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination, energy conservation
devices as provided in any regulations adopted by the Secretary of the United
States Department of Transportation, or any noncargo-carrying refrigerator
equipment attached to the front of trailers and semitrailers. In special cases,
vehicles that dimensions exceed those prescribed by this section may operate in
accordance with rules adopted by the Director.
   (g)   (1)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks or
other vehicles or apparatus belonging to the municipality or to the volunteer
fire department thereof or used by that department in the discharge of its
functions. This section does not apply to vehicles and pole trailers used in
the transportation of wooden and metal poles, nor to the transportation of
pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to farm machinery and equipment.
      (2)   The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery or equipment not
specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the
dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same on the highways
and streets of the municipality, shall comply with the rules of the Director
governing such movement. Any person adversely affected shall have the same
right of appeal as provided in R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   This section does not require the municipality or any railroad or
other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical clearance to permit
the operation of the vehicle, or to make any changes in or about existing
structures now crossing streets, roads and other public thoroughfares.
   (h)   As used in this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 5577.05)
   (i)   No person shall violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the
Director of Transportation in accordance with R.C. § 5577.05.
(R.C. § 5577.06)
   (j)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
§ 339.04 ROUTE AND LOAD INFORMATION.
   Drivers of vehicles described in this chapter are required, upon request by
a police officer, to give full and true information as to the route they are
following and the name of the consignor and consignee and place of delivery or
removal and the location of any consignment being hauled or goods being
removed, and upon a designation by such police officer of a route to be
followed, shall immediately adopt and pursue the route.
§ 339.05 WHEEL PROTECTORS.
   (a)   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated,
any commercial car, trailer or semitrailer, used for the transportation of
goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons,
upon the public highways, streets, bridges and culverts within the
municipality, unless the vehicle is equipped with suitable metal protectors or
substantial flexible flaps on the rearmost wheels of the vehicle or combination
of vehicles to prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from throwing dirt,
water or other materials on the windshields of following vehicles. The
protectors or flaps shall have a ground clearance of not more than one-third of
the distance from the center of the rearmost axle to the center of the flaps
under any conditions of loading of the vehicle, and they shall be at least as
wide as the tires they are protecting. If the vehicle is so designed and
constructed that the requirements are accomplished by means of fenders, body
construction or other means of enclosure, then no such protectors or flaps are
required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by fenders, bodies or other parts
of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by protective means extending at
least to the centerline of the rearmost axle.
(R.C. § 5577.11)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $25.
(R.C. § 5577.99(E))
§ 339.06 VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (a)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a
highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word “EXPLOSIVES” in letters not less than eight inches high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of the vehicle a red flag not less than 24
inches square marked with the word “DANGER” in white letters six inches high,
or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with § 177.823 of the United
States Department of Transportation regulations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.29)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 339.07 TOWING REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION TO SIZE AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   (1)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby, and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one
vehicle to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles
transporting poles, pipe, machinery or other objects of structural nature which
cannot readily be dismembered.
      (2)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope or cable, there shall be displayed upon the connection a white
flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.   
      (3)   In addition to the drawbar or other connection, each trailer and
each semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a
fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which
it is being drawn. These chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and
strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle in
case the drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case
of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle.
      (4)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and
pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility as defined in R.C. §
5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed
and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less, and vehicles
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less, shall have a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch
mounted on the towing vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull
all the weight towed thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport
agricultural produce or agricultural production materials as provided in this
section may be towed or drawn at one time except as follows:
         A.   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such
vehicle;
         B.   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one- half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.32)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (c)   Exception to size and weight restrictions.
      (1)   The size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter
5577 do not apply to any of the following:
         A.   A person who is engaged in the initial towing or removal of a
wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from the site of an emergency on a public
highway where the vehicle became wrecked or disabled to the nearest site where
the vehicle can be brought into conformance with the requirements of this
chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577, to the nearest storage facility, or to the
nearest qualified repair facility;
         B.   A person who is en route to the site of an emergency on a public
highway to remove a wrecked or disabled motor vehicle;
         C.   A person who is returning from delivering a wrecked or disabled
motor vehicle to a site, storage facility, or repair facility as specified in
division (c)(1)A. of this section.
      (2)   Any subsequent towing of a wrecked or disabled vehicle shall comply
with the size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577.
      (3)   No court shall impose any penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99 or
the civil liability established in R.C. § 5577.12 upon a person who is
operating a vehicle in the manner described in division (c)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 5577.15)
§ 339.08 LOADS DROPPING OR LEAKING; TRACKING MUD; REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the
vehicle is so constructed, loaded or covered as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand or
other substances may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water
or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining
the roadway.   
      (2)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.31)
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (c)   No person shall operate any vehicle so as to track mud on any public
way or place.
   (d)   It shall be the duty of the driver of a vehicle who unlawfully drops
or deposits mud or permits the load or any portion thereof to be dropped or
deposited upon any public way or place to immediately remove the same or cause
it to be removed.
§ 339.09 SHIFTING LOAD; LOOSE LOADS.
   (a)   In addition to any other lawful requirements of load distribution, no
person shall operate any vehicle upon a street or highway unless the vehicle is
so laden as to prevent its contents from shifting or otherwise unbalancing the
vehicle to such an extent as to interfere with the safe operation of the same.
   (b)   No motor vehicle or trailer shall be driven unless the tailboard or
tailgate, tarpaulins, chains (except ground or contact chains), ropes, stakes,
poles and the like, or any part of the load, are securely fastened to prevent
dangling, flapping, swinging or falling from the side, end or top of the load
or body. All projecting cargo shall be properly guarded by a red flag or cloth
or a red light or lantern as required by R.C. § 4513.09, or §
337.08.
§ 339.10 VEHICLES WITH SPIKES, LUGS AND CHAINS.
   (a)   No person shall drive over the improved highways of this municipality
a traction engine or tractor with tires or wheels equipped with ice picks,
spuds, spikes, chains or other projections of any kind extending beyond the
cleats, and no person shall tow or in any way pull another vehicle over the
improved highways of this municipality which towed or pulled vehicle has tires
or wheels equipped with ice picks, spuds, spikes, chains or other projections
of any kind. TRACTION ENGINE or TRACTOR, as used in this section, applies to
all self-propelling engines equipped with metal-tired wheels operated or
propelled by any form of engine, motor or mechanical power.
   (b)   This municipality shall not adopt, enforce or maintain any ordinance,
rule or regulation contrary to or inconsistent with division (a) above, nor
shall this municipality require any license tax upon or registration fee for
any traction engine, tractor or trailer, or any permit or license to operate.
Operators of traction engines or tractors shall have the same rights upon the
public streets and highways as the drivers of any other vehicles, unless some
other safe and convenient way is provided, and no public road open to traffic
shall be closed to traction engines or tractors.
(R.C. § 5589.08)
§ 339.11 USE OF STUDDED TIRES AND CHAINS.
   (a)   For the purposes of this section, STUDDED TIRE means any tire designed
for use on a vehicle and equipped with metal studs or studs of wear- resisting
material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire.
   (b)   (1)   Except as provided in division (b)(2) of this section, no person
shall operate any motor vehicle other than a public safety vehicle or school
bus that is equipped with studded tires on any street or highway in this
municipality, except during the period extending from the first day of November
of each year through the fifteenth day of April of the succeeding year.
      (2)   A person may operate a motor vehicle that is equipped with
retractable studded tires with the studs retracted at any time of the year, but
shall operate the motor vehicle with the studs extended only as provided in
division (b)(1) of this section.
   (c)   Division (b) of this section does not apply to the use of tire chains
when there is snow or ice on the streets or highways where the chains are being
used, or the immediate vicinity thereof.
(R.C. § 5589.081)
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 339.12 PARKING COMMERCIAL AND HEAVY VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stop, park or leave standing on any street in the city any
vehicle exceeding a gross weight of three tons, or a commercial tractor,
trailer, semitrailer or any vehicle of any of the following dimensions or
larger: 96 inches, with or without load, in width; 25 feet, with or without
load in length; or 108 inches, with or without load, in height, except when
parking is necessary to load or unload property, to perform other business
services requiring the parking of the vehicle, to comply with the provisions of
this Traffic Code, or to obey the directions of a police officer or a traffic-
control device. Operators of vehicles so parked for business reasons within the
city shall limit parking to a reasonable time to perform loading and unloading
or other business service.
(Ord. 54-1982, passed 7-12-1982)
§ 339.13 USE OF ENGINE BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated, any
commercial vehicle, trailer, or semi trailer that is equipped with special
brakes or engine brakes, in a manner that the use of the brakes creates an
excessive or unreasonable noise.
(Ord. 2006-138, passed 10-23-2006)
§ 339.14 CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINES.
   (a)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine shall accept passengers only
on the basis of prearranged contracts, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, and shall
not cruise in search of patronage unless the limousine is in compliance with
any statute or ordinance governing the operation of taxicabs or other similar
vehicles for hire.
   (b)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine may provide transportation to
passengers who arrange for the transportation through an intermediary,
including a digital dispatching service. Notwithstanding any law to the
contrary, when providing transportation arranged through an intermediary, the
operator of a chauffeured limousine may establish the fare and method of fare
calculation, so long as the method of fare calculation is provided to the
passenger upon request.
   (c)   No person shall advertise or hold himself or herself out as doing
business as a limousine service or livery service or other similar designation
unless each vehicle used by the person to provide the service is registered in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.24 and is in compliance with R.C. § 4509.80.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.85)
§ 339.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates the weight provisions of §§
339.01 to 339.03 inclusive, shall be fined $150 for the first 2,000 pounds or
fraction thereof of overloads; for overloads in excess of 2,000 pounds, but not
in excess of 5,000 pounds; the person shall be fined $150 and in addition
thereto $1 per 100 pounds of overload; for overloads in excess of 5,000 pounds,
but not in excess of 10,000 pounds, the person shall be fined $150 and in
addition thereto $2 per 100 pounds of overload, or imprisoned not more than 30
days, or both. For all overloads in excess of 10,000 pounds the person shall be
fined $150 and in addition thereto $3 per 100 pounds of overload, or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both. Whoever violates the weight provisions of
vehicle and load relating to gross load limits shall be fined not less than
$150.
(Ord. 44-1985, passed 7-25-1985)
Editors note:
   See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 341: COMMERCIAL DRIVERS
Section
341.01   Definitions
341.02   Use of actual gross weight in lieu of rating
341.03   Prerequisites to operation of a commercial motor vehicle
341.04   Prohibitions
341.05   Criminal offenses
341.06   Information required of prospective drivers by employers; unauthorized
driving
341.07   Physical qualification to operate commercial motor vehicles
341.08   Application of 49 C.F.R. Part 383
341.09   Authority of peace officers re drunk driving
341.10   Permitting or driving while fatigued or ill prohibited
341.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Load limits, see
Ch. 339
Statutory reference:
   Arrest notice of driver, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Disqualification, see R.C. § 4506.16
   Suspension or revocation of license, see R.C. § 4507.16
   Warning devices when disabled on freeways, see R.C. § 4513.28
§ 341.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION. The concentration of alcohol in a person’s
blood, breath or urine. When expressed as a percentage, it means grams of
alcohol per the following:
      (1)   One hundred milliliters of whole blood, blood serum or blood
plasma;
      (2)   Two hundred ten liters of breath; and
      (3)   One hundred milliliters of urine.
   (b)   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE.
      (1)   A license issued in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4506 that
authorizes an individual to drive a commercial motor vehicle. Except as
otherwise specifically provided, “commercial driver’s license” includes an
“enhanced commercial driver’s license.”
      (2)   “Enhanced commercial driver’s license” means a commercial driver’s
license issued in accordance with R.C. §§ 4507.021 and 4506.072 that denotes
citizenship and identity and is approved by the United States Secretary of
Homeland Security or other designated federal agency for purposes of entering
the United States.
   (c)   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM. The information system
established pursuant to the requirements of the Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety
Act of 1986, 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App. 2701.
   (d)   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Except when used in R.C. § 4506.25, any
motor vehicle designed or used to transport persons or property that meets any
of the following qualifications:
      (1)   Any combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight or combined
gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more, provided that the gross
vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight rating of the vehicle or vehicles being
towed is in excess of 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   Any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle
weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is not a class A
or class B vehicle, but is designed to transport 16 or more passengers
including the driver;
      (4)   Any school bus with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight
rating of less than 26,001 pounds that is designed to transport fewer than 16
passengers including the driver;
      (5)   Is transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is
required under 49 C.F.R. Part 172, Subpart F, as amended; or
      (6)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is designed to
be operated and to travel on a public street or highway and is considered by
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to be a commercial motor
vehicle, including but not limited to a motorized crane, a vehicle whose
function is to pump cement, a rig for drilling wells and a portable crane.
   (e)   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Includes all of the following:
      (1)   Any substance classified as a controlled substance under the
Controlled Substances Act, 80 Stat. 1242 (1970), 21 U.S.C. § 802(6), as
amended;
      (2)   Any substance included in Schedules I through V of 21 C.F.R. Part
1308, as amended;
      (3)   Any drug of abuse.
   (f)   CONVICTION. An unvacated adjudication of guilt or a determination that
a person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original
jurisdiction or an authorized administrative tribunal, an unvacated forfeiture
of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person’s appearance in court, a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court, the payment of a fine
or court cost, or violation of a condition of release without bail, regardless
of whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended or probated.
   (g)   DISQUALIFICATION. Any of the following:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation or cancellation of a person’s privileges
to operate a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privileges to operate a commercial
motor vehicle as the result of a violation of state or local law relating to
motor vehicle traffic control other than parking, vehicle weight or vehicle
defect violations;
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. Part 391.
   (h)   DOMICILED. Having a true, fixed, principal, and permanent residence to
which an individual intends to return.
   (i)   DOWNGRADE. Any of the following, as applicable:
      (1)   A change in the commercial driver’s license, or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit, holder’s self-certified status as
described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1);
      (2)   A change to a lesser class of vehicle;
      (3)   Removal of commercial driver’s license privileges from the
individual’s driver’s license.
   (j)   DRIVE. To drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor vehicle.
   (k)   DRIVER. Any person who drives, operates or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle or is required to have a commercial driver’s license.
   (l)   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles
that authorizes an individual to drive.
   (m)   DRUG OF ABUSE. Any controlled substance, dangerous drug as defined in
R.C. § 4729.01, harmful intoxicant as defined in R.C. § 2925.01, or over-the-
counter medication that, when taken in quantities exceeding the recommended
dosage, can result in impairment of judgment or reflexes.
   (n)   ELECTRONIC DEVICE. Includes a cellular telephone, a personal digital
assistant, a pager, a computer, and any other device used to input, write,
send, receive, or read text.
   (o)   ELIGIBLE UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A village, township or county that
has a population of not more than 3,000 persons according to the most recent
federal census.
   (p)   EMPLOYER. Any person, including the federal government, any state and
a political subdivision of any state, that owns or leases a commercial motor
vehicle or assigns a person to drive such a motor vehicle.
   (q)   ENDORSEMENT. An authorization on a person’s commercial driver’s
license that is required to permit the person to operate a specified type of
commercial motor vehicle.
   (r)   FARM TRUCK. A truck controlled and operated by a farmer for use in the
transportation to or from a farm, for a distance of not more than 150 miles, of
products of the farm, including livestock and its products, poultry and its
products, floricultural and horticultural products, and in the transportation
to the farm, from a distance of not more than 150 miles, of supplies for the
farm, including tile, fence and every other thing or commodity used in
agricultural, floricultural, horticultural, livestock and poultry production,
and livestock, poultry and other animals and things used for breeding, feeding
or other purposes connected with the operation of the farm, when the truck is
operated in accordance with this  definition and is not used in the operations
of a motor carrier, as defined in R.C. § 4923.01.
   (s)   FATALITY. The death of a person as the result of a motor vehicle
accident occurring not more than 365 days prior to the date of death.
   (t)   FELONY. Any offense under federal or state law that is punishable by
death or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year and includes any offense
specifically classified as a felony under the law of this state, regardless of
the penalty that may be imposed.
   (u)   FOREIGN JURISDICTION. Any jurisdiction other than a state.
   (v)   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. The value specified by the manufacturer
as the maximum loaded weight of a single or a combination vehicle. The gross
vehicle weight rating of a combination vehicle is the gross vehicle weight
rating of the power unit plus the gross vehicle weight rating of each towed
unit.
   (w)   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material that has been designated as
hazardous under 49 U.S.C. § 5103 and is required to be placarded under 49
C.F.R. Part 172, Subpart F or any quantity of a material listed as a select
agent or toxin in 42 C.F.R. Part 73, as amended.
   (x)   IMMINENT HAZARD. The existence of a condition that presents a
substantial likelihood that death, serious illness, severe personal injury or a
substantial endangerment to health, property or the environment may occur
before the reasonably foreseeable completion date of a formal proceeding begun
to lessen the risk of death, illness, injury or endangerment.
   (y)   MEDICAL VARIANCE. One of the following received by a driver from the
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration that allows the driver to be issued
a medical certificate:
      (1)   An exemption letter permitting operation of a commercial motor
vehicle under 49 C.F.R. part 381, subpart C or 49 C.F.R. § 391.64;
      (2)   A skill performance evaluation certificate permitting operation of
a commercial motor vehicle pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 391.49.
   (z)   MOBILE TELEPHONE. A mobile communication device that falls under or
uses any commercial mobile radio service as defined in 47 C.F.R. part 20,
except that mobile telephone does not include two-way or citizens band radio
services.
   (aa)   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer or semitrailer
propelled or drawn by mechanical power used on highways, except that the term
does not include a vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer or semitrailer operated
exclusively on a rail.
   (bb)   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER. A declaration by an authorized enforcement
officer of a federal, state, local, Canadian or Mexican jurisdiction declaring
that the driver, commercial motor vehicle or commercial motor carrier operation
is out of service as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 390.5.
   (cc)   PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
   (dd)   PORTABLE TANK. A liquid or gaseous packaging designed primarily to be
loaded on or temporarily attached to a vehicle and equipped with skids,
mountings or accessories to facilitate handling of the tank by mechanical
means.
   (ee)   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01(E)
(1) and (E)(3).
   (ff)   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Includes every vehicle that is defined as a
recreational vehicle in R.C. § 4501.01 and is used exclusively for purposes
other than engaging in business for profit.
   (gg)   RESIDENCE. Any person’s residence determined in accordance with
standards prescribed in the rules adopted by the Registrar.
   (hh)   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (ii)   SERIOUS TRAFFIC VIOLATION. Any of the following:
      (1)   A conviction arising from a single charge of operating a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of any provision of R.C. § 4506.03;
      (2)   A.   Except as provided in division (2)B. of this definition, a
violation while operating a commercial motor vehicle of a law of this state, or
any municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or any other
substantially similar law of another state or political subdivision of another
state, prohibiting either of the following:
            1.   Texting while driving;
            2.   Using a handheld mobile telephone.
         B.   It is not a serious traffic violation if the person was texting
or using a handheld mobile telephone to contact law enforcement or other
emergency services.
      (3)   A conviction arising from the operation of any motor vehicle that
involves any of the following:
         A.   A single charge of any speed in excess of the posted speed limit
by 15 miles per hour or more;
         B.   Violations of R.C. § 4511.20 or § 4511.201 or any substantially
equivalent ordinance or resolution, or of any substantially equivalent law of
another state or political subdivision of another state;
         C.   Violation of a law of this state or an ordinance or resolution
relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation, or of any
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, that results in a fatal accident;
         D.   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license with the proper class or endorsement for the specific vehicle
group being operated or for the passengers or type of cargo being transported;
         E.   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license being in the person’s possession;
         F.   Violation of R.C. § 4511.33 or § 4511.34, or any municipal
ordinance or county or township resolution substantially equivalent to either
of those sections, or any substantially equivalent law of another state or
political subdivision of another state;
         G.   Violation of any other law of this state, any law of another
state, or any ordinance or resolution of a political subdivision of this state
or another state that meets both of the following requirements:
            1.   It relates to traffic control, other than a parking violation;
            2.   It is determined to be a serious traffic violation by the
United States Secretary of Transportation and is designated by the director as
such by rule.
   (jj)   STATE. A state of the United States and includes the District of
Columbia.
   (kk)   TANK VEHICLE. Any commercial motor vehicle that is designed to
transport any liquid or gaseous materials within a tank or tanks that are
either permanently or temporarily attached to the vehicle or its chassis and
have an individual rated capacity of more than 119 gallons and an aggregate
rated capacity of 1,000 gallons or more. The term does not include a commercial
motor vehicle transporting an empty storage container tank that is not designed
for transportation, has a rated capacity of 1,000 gallons or more, and is
temporarily attached to a flatbed trailer.
   (ll)   TESTER. A person or entity acting pursuant to a valid agreement
entered into pursuant to R.C. § 4506.09(B).
   (mm)   TEXTING. Manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading text
from, an electronic device. “Texting” includes short message service (SMS), e-
mail, instant messaging, a command or request to access a world wide web page,
pressing more than a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone, or engaging in any other form of
electronic text retrieval or entry, for present or future communication.
“Texting” does not include the following:
      (1)   Using voice commands to initiate, receive, or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone;
      (2)   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system;
      (3)   Pressing a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone; or
      (4)   Using, for a purpose that is not otherwise prohibited by law, a
device capable of performing multiple functions, such as a fleet management
system, a dispatching device, a mobile telephone, a citizens band radio, or a
music player.
   (nn)   TEXTING WHILE DRIVING. Texting while operating a commercial motor
vehicle, with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because
of traffic, a traffic control device, or other momentary delays. Texting while
driving does not include operating a commercial motor vehicle with or without
the motor running when the driver has moved the vehicle to the side of, or off,
a highway and is stopped in a location where the vehicle can safely remain
stationary.
   (oo)   UNITED STATES. The 50 states and the District of Columbia.
   (pp)   UPGRADE. A change in the class of vehicles, endorsements, or self-
certified status as described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) that expands the ability
of a current commercial driver’s license holder to operate commercial motor
vehicles under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
   (qq)   USE OF A HANDHELD MOBILE TELEPHONE. Means:
      (1)   Using at least one hand to hold a mobile telephone to conduct a
voice communication;
      (2)   Dialing or answering a mobile telephone by pressing more than a
single button; or
      (3)   Reaching for a mobile telephone in a manner that requires a driver
to maneuver so that the driver is no longer in a seated driving position, or
restrained by a seat belt that is installed in accordance with 49 C.F.R. §
393.93 and adjusted in accordance with the vehicle manufacturer’s instructions.
   (rr)   VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4506.01)
§ 341.02 USE OF ACTUAL GROSS WEIGHT IN LIEU OF RATING.
   For purposes of this chapter, the actual gross weight of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles may be used in lieu of a gross vehicle weight rating to
determine whether a vehicle or combination of vehicles qualifies as a
commercial motor vehicle if the gross vehicle weight rating specified by the
manufacturer for the vehicle of combination of vehicles is not determinable, or
if the manufacturer of the vehicle has not specified a gross vehicle weight
rating.
(R.C. § 4506.011)
§ 341.03 PREREQUISITES TO OPERATION OF A COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   Except as provided in divisions (b) or (c) of this section, the
following shall apply:
      (1)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in
this municipality unless the person holds, and has in the person’s possession,
a valid commercial driver’s license with proper endorsements for the motor
vehicle being driven, issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, a valid
examiner’s commercial driver’s permit issued under R.C. § 4506.13, a valid
restricted commercial driver’s license and waiver for farm-related service
industries issued under R.C. § 4506.24, or a valid commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued by the Registrar and is accompanied by an
authorized state driver’s license examiner or tester or a person who has been
issued and has in the person’s immediate possession a current, valid commercial
driver’s license with proper endorsements for the motor vehicle being driven.
      (2)   No person shall be issued a commercial driver’s license until the
person surrenders to the registrar of motor vehicles all valid licenses issued
to the person by another jurisdiction recognized by this state. The Registrar
shall report the surrender of a license to the issuing authority, together with
information that a license is now issued in this state. The Registrar shall
destroy any such license that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (3)   No person who has been a resident of this state for thirty days or
longer shall drive a commercial motor vehicle under the authority of a
commercial driver’s license issued by another jurisdiction.
   (b)   Nothing in division (a) of this section applies to any qualified
person when engaged in the operation of any of the following:
      (1)   A farm truck;
      (2)   Fire equipment for a fire department, volunteer or nonvolunteer
fire company, fire district, or joint fire district;
      (3)   A public safety vehicle used to provide transportation or emergency
medical service for ill or injured persons;
      (4)   A recreational vehicle;
      (5)   A commercial motor vehicle within the boundaries of an eligible
unit of local government, if the person is employed by the eligible unit of
local government and is operating the commercial motor vehicle for the purpose
of removing snow or ice from a roadway by plowing, sanding, or salting, but
only if either the employee who holds a commercial driver’s license issued
under R.C. Chapter 4506 and ordinarily operates a commercial motor vehicle for
these purposes is unable to operate the vehicle, or the employing eligible unit
of local government determines that a snow or ice emergency exists that
requires additional assistance;
      (6)   A vehicle operated for military purposes by any member or uniformed
employee of the armed forces of the United States or their reserve components,
including the Ohio National Guard. This exception does not apply to United
States reserve technicians;
      (7)   A commercial motor vehicle that is operated for nonbusiness
purposes. OPERATED FOR NONBUSINESS PURPOSES means that the commercial motor
vehicle is not used in commerce as COMMERCE is defined in 49 C.F.R. § 383.5, as
amended, and is not regulated by the Public Utilities Commission pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 4905, 4921, or 4923;
      (8)   A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for the transportation
of goods and not persons, while that motor vehicle is being used for the
occasional transportation of personal property by individuals not for
compensation and not in the furtherance of a commercial enterprise;
      (9)   A police SWAT team vehicle.
   (c)   Nothing contained in division (b)(5) of this section shall be
construed as preempting or superseding any law, rule or regulation of this
state concerning the safe operation of commercial motor vehicles.
   (d)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a person may drive a
commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this state if all of the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   The person has a valid commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit issued by any state or
jurisdiction in accordance with the minimum standards adopted by the federal
motor carrier safety administration under the Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety
Act of 1986, 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C.A. App. for issuance of commercial
drivers’ licenses;
      (2)   The person’s commercial driver’s license or permit is not
suspended, revoked, or canceled;
      (3)   The person is not disqualified from driving a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (4)   The person is not subject to an out-of-service order;
      (5)   The person is medically certified as physically qualified to
operate a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with this chapter or R.C.
Chapter 4506 and is able to verify the medical certification when on duty as
follows:
         A.   Prior to January 30, 2012, the person shall have in the person’s
possession the original or copy of the person’s current medical examiner’s
certificate when on duty.
         B.   On or after January 30, 2012:
            1.   A person who submitted a medical examiner’s certificate to the
Registrar in accordance with R.C. § 4506.10(A)(2) and whose medical
certification information is maintained in the commercial driver’s license
information system is not required to have the medical examiner’s certificate
in the person’s possession when on duty.
            2.   A person whose medical certification information is not
maintained in the commercial driver’s license information system is required to
have in the person’s possession when on duty the original or copy of a current
medical examiner’s certificate that was issued prior to January 30, 2012,
except that after January 30, 2014, such person is required to have in the
person’s possession when on duty, the original or a copy of the current medical
examiner’s certificate that was submitted to the Registrar, but the person may
operate a commercial motor vehicle with such proof of medical certification for
not more than 15 days after the date the current medical examiner’s certificate
was issued to the person.
            3.   A person who has a medical variance shall have in the person’s
possession the original or copy of the medical variance documentation at all
times while on duty.
(R.C. § 4506.05(A))
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.03)
§ 341.04 PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having in the person’s
possession or otherwise under the person’s control more than one valid driver’s
license issued by this state, any other state or by a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality
in violation of an out-of-service order while the person’s driving privilege is
suspended, revoked or cancelled, or while the person is subject to
disqualification;
      (3)   Drive a motor vehicle on a highway in the municipality under the
authority of a commercial driver’s license issued by another state or a foreign
jurisdiction, after having been a resident of this state for 30 days or longer;
      (4)   Knowingly give false information in any application or
certification required by R.C. § 4506.07; and/or
      (5)   Knowingly provide false statements or engage in any fraudulent act
related to testing for a commercial driver’s license as required in R.C. §
4506.09.
   (b)   The municipality shall give every conviction occurring out of this
state and notice of which was received by the State Department of Public Safety
after December 31, 1989, full faith and credit and treat it for sanctioning
purposes under this chapter as though the conviction had occurred in this
state.
(R.C. § 4506.04(A), (B))
   (c)   No person shall drive any commercial motor vehicle for which an
endorsement is required under R.C. § 4506.12 unless the proper endorsement
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit. No person shall drive a commercial motor
vehicle in violation of a restriction established under R.C. § 4506.12 that
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit.
(R.C. § 4506.12(I))
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a)(1), (2) or (3) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(4) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (a)(5) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
(R.C. § 4506.04(C))
      (4)   A.   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   The offenses established under division (c) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
whether in this section or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4506.12(J))
§ 341.05 CRIMINAL OFFENSES.
   (a)   No person who holds a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or who operates a motor vehicle
for which a commercial driver’s license or permit is required shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having a measurable or
detectable amount of alcohol or of a controlled substance in the person’s
blood, breath or urine;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.04% or more by whole blood or breath;
      (3)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.048% or more by blood serum or blood plasma;
      (4)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.056% or more by urine;
      (5)   Drive a motor vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance;
      (6)   Drive a motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a municipal
O.V.I. ordinance as defined in R.C. § 4511.181;
      (7)   Use a vehicle in the commission of a felony;
      (8)   Refuse to submit to a test under R.C. § 4506.17 or R.C. § 4511.191,
or any substantially similar municipal ordinance;
      (9)   Operate a commercial motor vehicle while the person’s commercial
driver’s license or permit or other commercial driving privileges are revoked,
suspended, cancelled or disqualified;
      (10)   Cause a fatality through the negligent operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, including, but not limited to, the offenses of aggravated
vehicular homicide, vehicular homicide and vehicular manslaughter;
      (11)   Fail to stop after an accident in violation of R.C. §§ 4549.02 to
4549.03, or any substantially similar municipal ordinance;
      (12)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle in violation of any provision of
R.C. §§ 4511.61 to 4511.63 or any federal or local law or ordinance pertaining
to railroad-highway grade crossings;
      (13)   Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony involving the
manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance as defined
in R.C. § 3719.01 or the possession with intent to manufacture, distribute, or
dispense a controlled substance;
      (14)   Use a commercial motor vehicle in the commission of a violation of
R.C. § 2905.32 or any other substantially equivalent offense established under
federal law or the laws of another state.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
   (c)   The offenses established under this section are strict liability
offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of these offenses
as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
(R.C. § 4506.15)
Statutory reference:
   Alcohol or controlled substance testing, disqualification of drivers, see
R.C. § 4506.17
   Disqualification of drivers for violations, see R.C. § 4506.16
§ 341.06 INFORMATION REQUIRED OF PROSPECTIVE DRIVERS BY EMPLOYERS; UNAUTHORIZED
DRIVING.
   (a)   Each employer shall require every applicant for employment as a driver
of a commercial vehicle to provide the applicant’s employment history for the
ten years preceding the date the employment application is submitted to the
prospective employer. The following information shall be submitted:
      (1)   A list of the names and addresses of the applicant’s previous
employers for which the applicant was the operator of a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (2)   The dates the applicant was employed by these employers; and
      (3)   The reason for leaving each of these employers.
   (b)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize any driver employed by
the employer to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which any
of the following apply:
      (1)   The driver’s commercial driver’s license is suspended, revoked or
cancelled by any state or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   The driver has lost the privilege to drive, or currently is
disqualified from driving, a commercial motor vehicle in any state or foreign
jurisdiction;
      (3)   The driver, the commercial motor vehicle the driver is driving, or
the motor carrier operation is subject to an out-of-service order in any state
or a foreign jurisdiction; and/or
      (4)   The driver has more than one driver’s license.
   (c)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4506.15.
   (d)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle if the driver does not hold a valid, current
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit bearing the proper class or endorsements for the vehicle. No
employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of the restrictions on the driver’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit.
   (e)   Whoever violates division (a), (b) or (d) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (f)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 4506.20)
§ 341.07 PHYSICAL QUALIFICATION TO OPERATE COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (a)   No person who holds a valid commercial driver’s license shall drive a
commercial motor vehicle unless the person is physically qualified to do so.
      (1)   Any person applying for a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit, the renewal or upgrade of a
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit, or the transfer of a commercial driver’s license from out
of state shall self-certify to the Registrar for purposes of 49 C.F.R. § 383.71
one of the following in regard to the applicant’s operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, as applicable:
         A.   1.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in interstate or foreign commerce and is subject to and meets the
requirements under 49 C.F.R. part 391, the applicant shall self-certify that
the applicant is non- excepted interstate and shall provide the Registrar with
the original or a copy of a medical examiner’s certificate and each
subsequently issued medical examiner’s certificate prepared by a qualified
medical examiner to maintain a medically certified status on the applicant’s
commercial driver licensing system driver record;
            2.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in interstate commerce, but engages in transportation or
operations excepted under 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.68, or 398.3 from
all or parts of the qualification requirements of 49 C.F.R. part 391, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted interstate and is
not required to obtain a medical examiner’s certificate;
         B.   1.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and is
subject to state driver qualification requirements, the applicant shall self-
certify that the applicant is non-excepted intrastate;
            2.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and is
excepted from all or parts of the state driver qualification requirements, the
applicant shall self- certify that the applicant is excepted intrastate.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the expiration date on a person’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit,
every commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit holder shall provide the Registrar with the certification
required by this section on or after January 30, 2012, but prior to January 30,
2014.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.10(A), (E))
§ 341.08 APPLICATION OF 49 C.F.R. PART 383.
   (a)   The provisions of 49 C.F.R. Part 383, Subpart C (Notification
Requirements and Employer Responsibilities), as amended, shall apply to all
commercial drivers or persons who apply for employment as commercial drivers.
No person shall fail to make a report to the person’s employer as required by
this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.19)
§ 341.09 AUTHORITY OF PEACE OFFICERS RE DRUNK DRIVING.
   (a)   Within the jurisdictional limits of the appointing authority, any
peace officer shall stop and detain any person found violating R.C. § 4506.15,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, without obtaining a
warrant. When there is reasonable ground to believe that a violation of R.C. §
4506.15, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, has been
committed and a test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood plasma or
blood serum, breath or urine is necessary, the peace officer shall take the
person to an appropriate place for testing. If a person refuses to submit to a
test after being warned as provided in R.C. § 4506.17(C), or submits to a test
that discloses the presence of a controlled substance or an alcohol
concentration of 0.04% or more by whole blood or breath, an alcohol
concentration of 0.048% or more by blood serum or blood plasma, or an alcohol
concentration of 0.056% or more by urine, the peace officer shall require that
the person immediately surrender the person’s commercial driver’s license to
the peace officer.
   (b)   As used in this section, JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS means the limits within
which a peace officer may arrest and detain a person without a warrant under
R.C. § 2935.03, except that the Superintendent and the troopers of the State
Highway Patrol may stop and detain, without warrant, any person who, in the
presence of the Superintendent or any trooper, is engaged in a violation of any
of the provisions of R.C. Chapter 4506.
(R.C. § 4506.23)
§ 341.10 PERMITTING OR DRIVING WHILE FATIGUED OR ILL PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4506.01, or a commercial car or commercial tractor, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, while the person’s ability or alertness is so impaired by fatigue,
illness or other causes that it is unsafe for the person to drive the vehicle.
No driver shall use any drug which would adversely affect the driver’s ability
or alertness.
   (b)   No owner, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, of a commercial motor vehicle,
commercial car or commercial tractor, or a person employing or otherwise
directing the driver of the vehicle, shall require or knowingly permit a driver
in any such condition described in division (a) of this section to drive the
vehicle upon any street or highway.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.79, or R.C. § 4511.63, § 4511.76, § 4511.761, § 4511.762, §
4511.764 or § 4511.77, or a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any of those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.79)
§ 341.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:  
   See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
***** TITLE SEVEN: PARKING *****
CHAPTER 351: PARKING GENERALLY
Section
351.01   Police may remove illegally parked vehicle
351.02   Registered owner prima-facie liable for unlawful parking
351.03   Prohibited standing or parking places
351.04   Manner of parallel parking; disabled parking
351.05   Manner of angle parking
351.06   Selling, washing or repairing vehicle upon roadway
351.07    Unattended vehicles; duty to lock ignition, remove key, set brake and
the like
351.08   Opening vehicle door on traffic side (Recodified)
351.09   Truck loading zones
351.10   Bus stops and taxicab stands
351.11   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions
351.12   Prohibition against parking on streets or highways
351.13   Continuous operation of engine prohibited
351.14   Parking unlicensed motor vehicle on public right-of-way prohibited
351.15   Parking time limit on municipal parking lot
351.16   Fire lanes
351.17   Snow emergency routes
351.18   Parking prohibitions on private property; private tow-away zones
351.19   Waiver
351.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Lights on parked or stopped vehicles, see §
337.09
   Parking near stopped fire apparatus, see §
331.27
   Police may remove ignition key from unattended vehicle, see §
303.03
Statutory reference:
   Owner nonliability, lease defense, see R.C. § 4511.071
§ 351.01 POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (a)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of R.C. § 4511.66 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
the officer may move the vehicle, or require the driver or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or improved
or main traveled part of the highway.
   (b)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge or causeway, or in any tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes an
obstruction to traffic, the officer may provide for the removal of the vehicle
to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(R.C. § 4511.67)
§ 351.02 REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA-FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle, testimony
that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully parked as
prohibited by the provisions of this Traffic Code, and further testimony that
the record of the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles shows that the license plate
was issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that the vehicle
which was unlawfully parked, was so parked by the defendant. A certified
registration copy, showing that fact, from the Registrar shall be proof of
ownership.
§ 351.03 PROHIBITED STANDING OR PARKING PLACES.
   (a)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this
title, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, except as provided in division (b) of this section;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of, and upon the approach to, any flashing beacon,
stop sign or traffic-control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic- control device;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and, on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75
feet of the entrance when it is properly posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
the standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a highway, or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping;
      (15)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle; and
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway or thruway.
(R.C. § 4511.68(A))
   (b)   As used in this section, STREET LAWN shall be defined as the grassy
area located between the street and sidewalk.
(Ord. 2004-102, passed 8-9-2004)
   (c)   A person is permitted, without charge or restriction, to stand or park
on a sidewalk a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter that has an engine not
larger than 150 cubic centimeters, a low-speed micromobility device, or a
bicycle or electric bicycle, provided that the motor-driven cycle, motor
scooter, low-speed micromobility device, bicycle, or electric bicycle does not
impede the normal flow of pedestrian traffic. This division does not authorize
any person to operate a vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.711, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.68(B), (C))
§ 351.04 MANNER OF PARALLEL PARKING; DISABLED PARKING.
   (a)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and not more than 12 inches from the right-hand curb,
unless it is impossible to approach so close to the curb; in this case the stop
shall be made as close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary
to discharge and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise. Local
authorities by ordinance may permit angle parking on any roadway under their
jurisdiction, except that angle parking shall not be permitted on a state route
within the municipality unless an unoccupied roadway width of not less than 25
feet is available for free-moving traffic.
   (b)   Local authorities by ordinance may permit parking of vehicles with the
left-hand wheels adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb of a
one- way roadway.
   (c)   (1)   A.   Except as provided in division (c)(1)B. of this section, no
vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the vehicle facing
in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the road or
highway.
         B.   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into an
angled parking space so that when the motorcycle is parked it is facing in a
direction other than the direction of travel on the side of the road or
highway.
      (2)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into a parking
space that is located on the side of, and parallel to, a road or highway. The
motorcycle may face any direction when so parked. Not more than two motorcycles
at a time shall be parked in a parking space as described in this division (c)
(2) of this section irrespective of whether or not the space is metered.
   (d)   Notwithstanding any statute or any rule, regulation, resolution or
ordinance, air compressors, tractors, trucks and other equipment, while being
used in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair or removal of
facilities near, on, over or under a street or highway, may stop, stand or park
where necessary in order to perform the work, provided a flagperson is on duty
or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the Director
of Transportation.
   (e)   Accessible parking locations and privileges for persons with
disabilities that limit or impair the ability to walk shall be provided and
designated by all political subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and
instrumentalities thereof at all offices and facilities where parking is
provided, whether owned, rented or leased, and at all publicly owned parking
garages. The locations shall be designated through the posting of an elevated
sign, whether permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the international
symbol of access and shall be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators
and ramps. All elevated signs posted in accordance with this division and R.C.
§ 3781.111(C) shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance
from the ground to the bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five
feet. If a new sign or a replacement sign designating an accessible parking
location is posted on or after October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed
upon the surface of that sign or affixed next to the designating sign a notice
that states the fine applicable for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in
the designated accessible parking location if the motor vehicle is not legally
entitled to be parked in that location.
   (f)   (1)   A.   No person shall stop, stand or park any motor vehicle at
accessible parking locations provided under division (e) of this section, or at
accessible clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned
parking lots, parking garages or other parking areas and designated in
accordance with that division, unless one of the following applies:
            1.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or accessible license plates;
or
            2.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability and is displaying a parking card or accessible
license plates.
         B.   Any motor vehicle that is parked in an accessible marked parking
location in violation of division (f)(1)A.1. or (f)(1)A.2. of this section may
be towed or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law enforcement
agency of the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or removed shall
not be released to its owner until the owner presents proof of ownership of the
motor vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the
municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor vehicle is a
leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the lessee
presents proof that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and pays all
towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for towing and
storing motor vehicles.
         C.   If a person is charged with a violation of division (f)(1)A.1. or
            (f)(1)A.2. of this section, it is an affirmative defense to the
charge that the person suffered an injury not more than 72 hours prior to the
time the person was issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the
injury, the person meets at least one of the criteria contained in R.C. §
4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle in an area
that is commonly known as an access aisle, which area is marked by diagonal
stripes and is located immediately adjacent to an accessible parking location
provided under division (e) of this section or at an accessible clearly marked
parking location provided in or on a privately owned parking lot, parking
garage, or other parking area and designated in accordance with that division.
   (g)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or accessible license plates, or when
a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a person with a
disability and is displaying a parking card or accessible license plates, the
motor vehicle is permitted to park for a period of two hours in excess of the
legal parking period permitted by local authorities, except where local
ordinances or police rules provide otherwise or where the vehicle is parked in
such a manner as to be clearly a traffic hazard.
   (h)   No owner of an office, facility or parking garage where accessible
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with division (e)
of this section shall fail to properly mark the accessible parking locations in
accordance with that division or fail to maintain the markings of the
accessible locations, including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or
movable signs.
   (i)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or accessible license
plates if the parking card or accessible license plates issued to the person or
organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
   (j)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   ACCESSIBLE LICENSE PLATES and REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD. Any
license plates, standard removable windshield placard, permanent removable
windshield placard, or temporary removable windshield placard issued under R.C.
§ 4503.41 or 4503.44, and also mean any substantially similar license plates or
removable windshield placard issued by a state, district, country, or
sovereignty.
      (2)   PERSON WITH A DISABILITY. Any person who has lost the use of one or
both legs or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf or unable to move without the
aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose mobility is restricted by a permanent
cardiovascular, pulmonary or other disabling condition.
      (3)   PERSON WITH A DISABILITY THAT LIMITS OR IMPAIRS THE ABILITY TO
WALK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4503.44.
   (k)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (a) or (c) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates division (f)(1)A.1. or (f)(1)A.2. of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
division (k)(2)A. and (k)(2)B. of this section. Except as otherwise provided in
division (k)(2)A. of this section, an offender who violates division (f)(1)A.1.
or (f)(1)A.2. of this section shall be fined not less than $250 nor more than
$500. An offender who violates division (f)(1)A.1. or (f)(1)A.2. of this
section shall be fined not more than $100 if the offender, prior to sentencing,
proves either of the following to the satisfaction of the court:
            1.   At the time of the violation of division (f)(1)A.1. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a removable windshield placard that then was
valid or accessible license plates that then were valid but the offender or the
person neglected to display the placard or license plates as described in
division (f)(1)A.1. of this section.
            2.   At the time of the violation of division (f)(1)A.2. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a parking card that then was valid or accessible
license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person neglected to
display the card or license plates as described in division (f)(1)A.2. of this
section.
         B.   In no case shall an offender who violates division (f)(1)A.1. or
(f)(1)A.2. be sentenced to any term of imprisonment.
         C.   An arrest or conviction for a violation of division (f)(1)A.1. or
(f)(1)A.2. of this section does not constitute a criminal record and need not
be reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries
contained in any application for employment, license or other right or
privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
         D.   The Clerk of the Court shall pay every fine collected under
divisions (k)(2) and (k)(3) of this section to the municipality. Except as
provided in division (k)(2) of this section, the municipality shall use the
fine moneys it receives under divisions (k)(2) and (k)(3) of this section to
pay the expenses it incurs in complying with the signage and notice
requirements contained in division (e) of this section. The municipality may
use up to 50% of each fine it receives under divisions (k)(2) and (k)(3) of
this section to pay the costs of educational, advocacy, support and assistive
technology programs for persons with disabilities, and for public improvements
within the municipality that benefit or assist persons with disabilities, if
governmental agencies or nonprofit organizations offer the programs.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (f)(2) of this section shall be fined not
less than $250 nor more than $500. In no case shall an offender who violates
division (f)(2) of this section be sentenced to any term of imprisonment. An
arrest or conviction for a violation of division (f)(2) of this section does
not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries contained in any application
for employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection
with the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (h) of this section shall be punished as
follows:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (k)(4) of this section,
the offender shall be issued a warning.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (h) of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that division, the offender shall
not be issued a warning but shall be fined not more than $25 for each parking
location that is not properly marked or whose markings are not properly
maintained.
(R.C. § 4511.69)
§ 351.05 MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
   Upon streets where angle parking is permitted, no person shall stop, stand
or park a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway as
is indicated by appropriate signs or markings.
§ 351.06 SELLING, WASHING OR REPAIRING VEHICLE UPON ROADWAY.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway for the
principal purpose of:
   (a)   Displaying the vehicle for sale; or
   (b)   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle except repairs necessitated
by an emergency.
§ 351.07 UNATTENDED VEHICLES; DUTY TO LOCK IGNITION, REMOVE KEY, SET BRAKE AND
THE LIKE.
   (a)   (1)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
      (2)   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition, and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle do not apply to any of the following:
         A.   A motor vehicle that is parked on residential property;
         B.   A motor vehicle that is locked, regardless of where it is parked;
         C.   An emergency vehicle ;
         D.   A public safety vehicle.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.661)
§ 351.08 OPENING VEHICLE DOOR ON TRAFFIC SIDE (RECODIFIED).
Editor’s note:
   Sections 331.25 and 351.08 were combined as part of the 2004 updating and
revision of these codified ordinances. For provisions regarding Opening vehicle
door on traffic side, please see §
331.25.
§ 351.09 TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time, other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and
loading of materials, in any place marked as a truck loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to those zones are in effect. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
§ 351.10 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of,
and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when the
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter the zone, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes, if
the stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
   (b)   No operator of a bus shall stop, stand or park the vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted
as such, except in case of an emergency.
   (c)   No operator of a bus shall fail to enter a bus stop on a street or
other public way in such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload
passengers or baggage is in a position with the right front wheel of the
vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately
parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular
traffic.
   (d)   No operator of a taxicab shall stand or park the vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place other than in a taxicab stand so
designated and posted as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of
a taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking provisions at any place for the purpose of, and while actually engaged
in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers.
§ 351.11 PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic-
control signal.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading, and
then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
§ 351.12 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON STREETS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (a)   (1)   Upon any highway, no person shall stop, park or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled
part of the highway if it is practicable to stop, park or so leave the vehicle
off the paved or main traveled part of the highway. In every event a clear and
unobstructed portion of the highway opposite the standing vehicle shall be left
for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view of the stopped vehicle
shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each direction upon the
highway.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway
in such manner and to the extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in that position.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.66)
§ 351.13 CONTINUOUS OPERATION OF ENGINE PROHIBITED.
   Continuous operation or running of the engine of a vehicle while parked on
any street or during a stop for loading and/or unloading is prohibited except
where such operation is necessary for any power take-offs, power operated
tailgates or lifts or operation of any refrigeration equipment.
§ 351.14 PARKING UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLE ON PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall intentionally park or leave standing an unlicensed motor
vehicle on any public right-of-way in the city.
(Ord. 57-1973, passed 6-11-1973)
§ 351.15 PARKING TIME LIMIT ON MUNICIPAL PARKING LOT.
   (a)   No person shall park and let remain parked a motor vehicle of any
type, whether operative or inoperative, on any city-owned or operated parking
lot or temporary parking area in violation of any posted parking restrictions
unless otherwise authorized by the City Manager.
   (b)   In addition to any other penalties provided by law, any vehicle parked
in violation of this section shall be considered to constitute a hazard or
obstruction to the normal movement of traffic and shall be subject to removal
and impounding pursuant to §
303.08.
(Ord. 64-1974, passed 12-9-1974; Ord. 2006-139, passed 10-23-2006; Ord. 2009-
24, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 351.16 FIRE LANES.
   (a)   The Safety Director is hereby given authority to establish parking
restrictions in certain areas where fire lanes are necessary for the movement
and functioning of fire apparatus.
   (b)   Designated fire lanes shall be maintained free of obstructions and
vehicles and marked in a manner prescribed by the fire official. Such fire
lanes shall be posted or otherwise designated as no parking areas.
   (c)   Any person convicted of parking a motor vehicle in such fire lane or
causing an obstruction to be there shall be punished as provided in §
303.99.
(Ord. 86-62, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 351.17 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (a)   U.S. Route 42 is hereby established as a snow emergency route in the
city. The route will be designated by official signs, and is to be kept open
and clear in times of a snow emergency for the safety and convenience of the
public.
   (b)   No person shall park on any portion of the snow emergency route during
any period in which a snow emergency is in effect. Whenever any police officer
finds a vehicle parked in violation of this section, the officer may provide
for the removal of the vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
   (c)   A snow emergency is in effect at any time within 24 hours after a
snowfall of two inches or more has occurred. However, parking shall be
permitted, if otherwise lawful after snow accumulation upon the street has been
removed or the street has been otherwise cleared of snow by the city.
   (d)   In addition, the Safety Director may declare a snow emergency when
snow, sleet, freezing rain or other weather conditions cause or appear likely
to cause, in the judgment of the Director, slippery or hazardous conditions
which might lead to serious congestion or hazard. In that case, the Director
shall declare termination of the snow emergency as soon as conditions permit.
   (e)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 141-1978, passed 11-27-1978)
§ 351.18 PARKING PROHIBITIONS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; PRIVATE TOW-AWAY ZONES.
   (a)   (1)   The chief of a law enforcement agency of the municipal
corporation, upon complaint of any person adversely affected, may order into
storage any motor vehicle, other than an abandoned junk motor vehicle as
defined in R.C. § 4513.63, that has been left on private residential or private
agricultural property for at least four hours without the permission of the
person having the right to the possession of the property. The chief, upon
complaint of a repair garage or place of storage, may order into storage any
motor vehicle, other than an abandoned junk motor vehicle, that has been left
at the garage or place of storage for a longer period than that agreed upon.
When ordering a motor vehicle into storage pursuant to this division, the chief
may arrange for the removal of the motor vehicle by a towing service and shall
designate a storage facility.
      (2)   A towing service towing a motor vehicle under division (a)(1) of
this section shall remove the motor vehicle in accordance with that division.
The towing service shall deliver the motor vehicle to the location designated
by the chief not more than two hours after the time it is removed from the
private property, unless the towing service is unable to deliver the motor
vehicle within two hours due to an uncontrollable force, natural disaster, or
other event that is not within the power of the towing service.
      (3)   Subject to division (b) of this section, the owner of a motor
vehicle that has been removed pursuant to this division may recover the vehicle
only in accordance with division (d) of this section.
      (4)   As used in this section, “private residential property” means
private property on which is located one or more structures that are used as a
home, residence, or sleeping place by one or more persons, if no more than
three separate households are maintained in the structure or structures. The
phrase does not include any private property on which is located one or more
structures that are used as a home, residence, or sleeping place by two or more
persons, if more than three separate households are maintained in the structure
or structures.
   (b)   (1)   If the owner or operator of a motor vehicle that has been
ordered into storage pursuant to division (a)(1) of this section arrives after
the motor vehicle has been prepared for removal, but prior to its actual
removal from the property, the towing service shall give the owner or operator
oral or written notification at the time of such arrival that the vehicle owner
or operator may pay a fee of not more than one-half of the fee for the removal
of the motor vehicle established by the Public Utilities Commission in rules
adopted under R.C. § 4921.25, in order to obtain release of the motor vehicle.
However, if the vehicle is within a municipal corporation and the municipal
corporation has established a vehicle removal fee, the towing service shall
give the owner or operator oral or written notification that the owner or
operator may pay not more than one-half of that fee to obtain release of the
motor vehicle. That fee may be paid by use of a major credit card unless the
towing service uses a mobile credit card processor and mobile service is not
available at the time of the transaction.
      (2)   Upon payment of the applicable fee, the towing service shall give
the vehicle owner or operator a receipt showing both the full amount normally
assessed and the actual amount received and shall release the motor vehicle to
the owner or operator. Upon its release, the owner or operator immediately
shall move it so that it is not on the private residential or private
agricultural property without the permission of the person having the right to
possession of the property, or is not at the garage or place of storage without
the permission of the owner, whichever is applicable.
   (c)   (1)   The chief of a law enforcement agency in the municipal
corporation shall maintain a record of motor vehicles that the chief orders
into storage pursuant to division (a)(1) of this section. The record shall
include an entry for each such motor vehicle that identifies the motor
vehicle’s license number, make, model, and color, the location from which it
was removed, the date and time of its removal, the telephone number of the
person from whom it may be recovered, and the address of the place to which it
has been taken and from which it may be recovered. The chief shall provide any
information in the record that pertains to a particular motor vehicle to any
person who, either in person or pursuant to a telephone call, identifies self
as the owner or operator of the motor vehicle and requests information
pertaining to its location.
      (2)   Any person who registers a complaint that is the basis of the
chief’s order for the removal and storage of a motor vehicle under division (a)
(1) of this section shall provide the identity of the law enforcement agency
with which the complaint was registered to any person who identifies self as
the owner or operator of the motor vehicle and requests information pertaining
to its location.
   (d)   (1)   The owner or lienholder of a motor vehicle that is ordered into
storage pursuant to division (a)(1) of this section may reclaim it upon both of
the following:
         A.   Payment of all applicable fees established by the Public
Utilities Commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25 or, if the vehicle
was towed within a municipal corporation that has established fees for vehicle
removal and storage, payment of all applicable fees established by the
municipal corporation.
         B.   Presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by a
certificate of title to the motor vehicle, a certificate of registration for
the motor vehicle, or a lease agreement.
      (2)   When the owner of a vehicle towed under this section retrieves the
vehicle, the towing service or storage facility in possession of the vehicle
shall give the owner written notice that if the owner disputes that the motor
vehicle was lawfully towed, the owner may be able to file a civil action under
R.C. § 4513.611.
      (3)   Upon presentation of proof of ownership as required under division
(d)(1)B. of this section, the owner of a motor vehicle that is ordered into
storage under division (a)(1) of this section may retrieve any personal items
from the motor vehicle without retrieving the vehicle and without paying any
fee. However, a towing service or storage facility may charge an after-hours
retrieval fee established by the Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted
under R.C. § 4921.25 if the owner retrieves the personal items after hours,
unless the towing service or storage facility fails to provide the notice
required under R.C. § 4513.69(B)(3), if applicable. The owner of a motor
vehicle shall not do either of the following:
         A.   Retrieve any personal item that has been determined by the chief
to be necessary to a criminal investigation;
         B.   Retrieve any personal item from a vehicle if it would endanger
the safety of the owner, unless the owner agrees to sign a waiver of liability.
      (4)   For purposes of division (d)(3) of this section, “personal items”
do not include any items that are attached to the motor vehicle.
      (5)   If a motor vehicle that is ordered into storage pursuant to
division (a)(1) of this section remains unclaimed by the owner for 30 days, the
procedures established by R.C. §§ 4513.61 and 4513.62 apply.
   (e)   (1)   No person shall remove, or cause the removal of, any motor
vehicle from any private residential or private agricultural property other
than in accordance with division (a)(1) of this section or R.C. §§ 4513.61 to
4513.65.
      (2)   No towing service or storage facility shall fail to comply with the
requirements of this section.
   (f)   This section does not apply to any private residential or private
agricultural property that is established as a private tow-away zone in
accordance with division (h) of this section or R.C. § 4513.601.
   (g)   Whoever violates division (e) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.60)
   (h)   Private Tow-away Zones.
      (1)   The owner of a private property may establish a private tow-away
zone, but may do so only if all of the following conditions are satisfied:
         A.   The owner of the private property posts on the property a sign,
that is at least 18 inches by 24 inches in size, that is visible from all
entrances to the property, and that includes all of the following information:
            1.   A statement that the property is a tow-away zone;
            2.   A description of persons authorized to park on the property.
If the property is a residential property, the owner of the private property
may include on the sign a statement that only tenants and guests may park in
the private tow-away zone, subject to the terms of the property owner. If the
property is a commercial property, the owner of the private property may
include on the sign a statement that only customers may park in the private
tow-away zone. In all cases, if it is not apparent which persons may park in
the private tow-away zone, the owner of the private property shall include on
the sign the address of the property on which the private tow- away zone is
located or the name of the business that is located on the property designated
as a private tow-away zone.
            3.   If the private tow-away zone is not enforceable at all times,
the times during which the parking restrictions are enforced;
            4.   The telephone number and the address of the place from which a
towed vehicle may be recovered at any time during the day or night;
            5.   A statement that the failure to recover a towed vehicle may
result in the loss of title to the vehicle as provided in R.C. § 4505.101(B).
            6.   In order to comply with the requirements of division (h)(1)A.
of this section, the owner of a private property may modify an existing sign by
affixing to the existing sign stickers or an addendum in lieu of replacing the
sign.
         B.   A towing service ensures that a vehicle towed under this division
(h) is taken to a location from which it may be recovered that complies with
all of the following:
            1.   It is located within 25 linear miles of the location of the
private tow-away zone, unless it is not practicable to take the vehicle to a
place of storage within 25 linear miles.
            2.   It is well-lighted.
            3.   It is on or within a reasonable distance of a regularly
scheduled route of one or more modes of public transportation, if any public
transportation is available in the municipal corporation or township in which
the private tow-away zone is located.
      (2)   A.   If a vehicle is parked on private property that is established
as a private tow-away zone in accordance with division (h)(1) of this section,
without the consent of the owner of the private property or in violation of any
posted parking condition or regulation, the owner of the private property may
cause the removal of the vehicle by a towing service. The towing service shall
remove the vehicle in accordance with this division (h). The vehicle owner and
the operator of the vehicle are considered to have consented to the removal and
storage of the vehicle, to the payment of the applicable fees established by
the Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25, and to
the right of a towing service to obtain title to the vehicle if it remains
unclaimed as provided in R.C. § 4505.101. The owner or lienholder of a vehicle
that has been removed under this division (h), subject to division (h)(3) of
this section, may recover the vehicle in accordance with division (h)(7) of
this section.
         B.   If a municipal corporation requires tow trucks and tow truck
operators to be licensed, no owner of a private property located within the
municipal corporation shall cause the removal and storage of any vehicle
pursuant to division (h)(2) of this section by an unlicensed tow truck or
unlicensed tow truck operator.
         C.   No towing service shall remove a vehicle from a private tow-away
zone except pursuant to a written contract for the removal of vehicles entered
into with the owner of the private property on which the private tow-away zone
is located.
      (3)   If the owner or operator of a vehicle that is being removed under
authority of division (h)(2) of this section arrives after the vehicle has been
prepared for removal, but prior to its actual removal from the property, the
towing service shall give the vehicle owner or operator oral or written
notification at the time of such arrival that the vehicle owner or operator may
pay a fee of not more than one-half of the fee for the removal of the vehicle
established by the Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted under R.C. §
4921.25 in order to obtain release of the vehicle. That fee may be paid by use
of a major credit card unless the towing service uses a mobile credit card
processor and mobile service is not available at the time of the transaction.
Upon payment of that fee, the towing service shall give the vehicle owner or
operator a receipt showing both the full amount normally assessed and the
actual amount received and shall release the vehicle to the owner or operator.
Upon its release, the owner or operator immediately shall move the vehicle so
that the vehicle is not parked on the private property established as a private
tow- away zone without the consent of the owner of the private property or in
violation of any posted parking condition or regulation.
      (4)   A.   Prior to towing a vehicle under division (h)(2) of this
section, a towing service shall make all reasonable efforts to take as many
photographs as necessary to evidence that the vehicle is clearly parked on
private property in violation of a private tow-away zone established under
division (h)(1) of this section. The towing service shall record the time and
date of the photographs taken under this division (h). The towing service shall
retain the photographs and the record of the time and date, in electronic or
printed form, for at least 30 days after the date on which the vehicle is
recovered by the owner or lienholder or at least two years after the date on
which the vehicle was towed, whichever is earlier.
         B   A towing service shall deliver a vehicle towed under division (h)
(2) of this section to the location from which it may be recovered not more
than two hours after the time it was removed from the private tow-away zone,
unless the towing service is unable to deliver the motor vehicle within two
hours due to an uncontrollable force, natural disaster, or other event that is
not within the power of the towing service.
      (5)   A.   If an owner of a private property that is established as a
private tow- away zone in accordance with division (h)(1) of this section
causes the removal of a vehicle from that property by a towing service under
division (h)(2) of this section, the towing service, within two hours of
removing the vehicle, shall provide notice to the law enforcement agency of the
municipal corporation concerning all of the following:
            1.   The vehicle’s license number, make, model, and color;
            2.   The location from which the vehicle was removed;
            3.   The date and time the vehicle was removed;
            4.   The telephone number of the person from whom the vehicle may
be recovered;
            5.   The address of the place from which the vehicle may be
recovered.
         B.   The chief of a law enforcement agency of the municipal
corporation shall maintain a record of any vehicle removed from private
property in the chief’s jurisdiction that is established as a private tow-away
zone of which the chief has received notice under this division (h). The record
shall include all information submitted by the towing service. The chief shall
provide any information in the record that pertains to a particular vehicle to
a person who, either in person or pursuant to a telephone call, identifies self
as the owner, operator, or lienholder of the vehicle and requests information
pertaining to the vehicle.
      (6)   A.   When a vehicle is removed from private property in accordance
with this section, within three business days of the removal, the towing
service or storage facility from which the vehicle may be recovered shall cause
a search to be made of either of the following to ascertain the identity of the
owner and any lienholder of the vehicle:
            1.   The records of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles;
            2.   The records of any vendor or vendors, approved by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles, that are capable of providing real- time access to
owner and lienholder information.
         B.   The towing service or storage facility may search the National
            Motor Vehicle Title Information System in order to determine the
state in which the vehicle is titled. The entity that provides the record of
the owner and any lienholder under this division shall ensure that such
information is provided in a timely manner.
         C.   Subject to division (h)(6)F. of this section, the towing service
or storage facility shall send notice to the vehicle owner and any known
lienholder as follows:
            1.   Within five business days after the applicable entity provides
the identity of the owner and any lienholder of the motor vehicle, if the
vehicle remains unclaimed, to the owner’s and lienholder’s last known address
by certified or express mail with return receipt requested, by certified mail
with electronic tracking, or by a commercial carrier service utilizing any form
of delivery requiring a signed receipt;
            2.   If the vehicle remains unclaimed 30 days after the first
notice is sent, in the manner required under division (h)(6)C.1. of this
section.
         D.   Sixty days after any notice sent pursuant to division (h)(6)C. of
this section is received, as evidenced by a receipt signed by any person, or
the towing service or storage facility has been notified that delivery was not
possible, the towing service or storage facility, if authorized under R.C. §
4505.101(B), may initiate the process for obtaining a certificate of title to
the motor vehicle as provided in that section.
         E.   A towing service or storage facility that does not receive a
signed receipt of notice, or a notification that delivery was not possible,
shall not obtain, and shall not attempt to obtain, a certificate of title to
the motor vehicle under R.C. § 4505.101(B).
         F.   With respect to a vehicle concerning which a towing service or
storage facility is not eligible to obtain title under R.C. § 4505.101, the
towing service or storage facility need only comply with the initial notice
required under division (h)(6)C.1. of this section.
      (7)   A.   The owner or lienholder of a vehicle that is removed under
division (h)(2) of this section may reclaim it upon both of the following:
            1.   Presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by
a certificate of title to the vehicle, a certificate of registration for the
motor vehicle, or a lease agreement;
            2.   Payment of the following fees:
               a.   All applicable fees established by the Public Utilities
Commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25, except that the lienholder of
a vehicle may retrieve the vehicle without paying any storage fee for the
period of time that the vehicle was in the possession of the towing service or
storage facility prior to the date the lienholder received the notice sent
under division (h)(6)A.1. of this section;
               b.   If notice has been sent to the owner and lienholder as
described in division (h)(6) of this section, a processing fee of $25.
         B.   A towing service or storage facility in possession of a vehicle
that is removed under authority of division (h)(2) of this section shall show
the vehicle owner, operator, or lienholder who contests the removal of the
vehicle all photographs taken under division (h)(4) of this section. Upon
request, the towing service or storage facility shall provide a copy of all
photographs in the medium in which the photographs are stored, whether paper,
electronic, or otherwise.
         C.   When the owner of a vehicle towed under this section retrieves
the vehicle, the towing service or storage facility in possession of the
vehicle shall give the owner written notice that if the owner disputes that the
motor vehicle was lawfully towed, the owner may be able to file a civil action
under R.C. § 4513.611.
         D.   Upon presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced
by a certificate of title to the vehicle, a certificate of registration for the
motor vehicle, or a lease agreement, the owner of a vehicle that is removed
under authority of division (h)(2) of this section may retrieve any personal
items from the vehicle without retrieving the vehicle and without paying any
fee. The owner of the vehicle shall not retrieve any personal items from a
vehicle if it would endanger the safety of the owner, unless the owner agrees
to sign a waiver of liability. For purposes of division (h)(7)D. of this
section, “personal items” do not include any items that are attached to the
vehicle.
      (8)   No person shall remove, or cause the removal of, any vehicle from
private property that is established as a private tow-away zone under this
division (h) or store such a vehicle other than in accordance with this
division (h), or otherwise fail to comply with any applicable requirement of
this division (h).
      (9)   This section does not affect or limit the operation of divisions
(a) through (g) of this section, R.C. § 4513.60 or R.C. §§ 4513.61 to 4613.65
as they relate to property other than private property that is established as a
private tow-away zone under division (h)(1) of this section.
      (10)   Whoever violates division (h)(8) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (11)   As used in this section, “owner of a private property” or “owner
of the private property” includes, with respect to a private property, any of
the following:
         A.   Any person who holds title to the property;
         B.   Any person who is a lessee or sublessee with respect to a lease
or sublease agreement for the property;
         C.   A person who is authorized to manage the property;
         D.   A duly authorized agent of any person listed in divisions (h)
(11)A. to (h)(11)C. of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.601)
   (i)   If an owner of private property posts on the property in a conspicuous
manner a prohibition against parking on the property or conditions and
regulations under which parking is permitted, no person shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   Park a vehicle on the property without the owner’s consent;
      (2)   Park a vehicle on the property in violation of any condition or
regulation posted by the owner.
   (j)   Whoever violates division (i) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.681)
§ 351.19 WAIVER.
   Any person charged with a violation of any provision of this chapter for
which payment of a prescribed fine may be made, may pay the sum in the manner
prescribed on the issued traffic ticket. This payment shall be deemed a plea of
guilty, waiver of court appearance and acknowledgment of conviction of the
alleged offense and may be accepted in full satisfaction of the prescribed
penalty for the alleged violation. Payment of the prescribed fine need not be
accepted when laws prescribe that a certain number of such offenses shall
require court appearance.
§ 351.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:  
   See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
***** TITLE NINE: PEDESTRIANS, BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES *****
CHAPTER 371: PEDESTRIANS
Section
371.01   Right-of-way in crosswalk
371.02   Right-of-way of blind person
371.03   Right-of-way yielded by pedestrian; crossing roadways
371.04   Moving in crosswalks
371.05   Walking on sidewalks and streets
371.06   Soliciting rides or business; riding on outside of vehicle or in cargo
storage area
371.07   Right-of-way on sidewalks
371.08   Right-of-way of public safety vehicles
371.09   Intoxication
371.10   Passing through bridge signals or railroad barriers
371.11   Motorized wheelchair operators
371.12   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices
371.13   Operation of personal delivery device on sidewalks and crosswalks
371.14   Low-speed micromobility devices
371.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Obedience to traffic-control devices, see §§
313.01,
313.03
   Pedestrian control signals, see §
313.05
   Pedestrian defined, see §
301.22
   Pedestrian prohibited on freeways, see §
303.06
§ 371.01 RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALK.
   (a)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, not in operation or are
not clearly assigning the right- of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall yield
the right-of- way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, or if
required by §
313.09, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, to a pedestrian
crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of
the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the pedestrian is
approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as to be in
danger.
   (b)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (c)   Division (a) of this section does not apply under the conditions
stated in §
371.03(b), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (d)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (e)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (f)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.46)
(Ord. 90-3, passed 1-22-1990)
§ 371.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF BLIND PERSON.
   (a)   (1)   As used in this section BLIND PERSON or BLIND PEDESTRIAN means a
person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses, or visual acuity greater than 20/200, but with a limitation
in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog, or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (b)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley or other public thoroughfare, shall carry a white or metallic
cane, with or without a red tip.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.47)
§ 371.03 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED BY PEDESTRIAN; CROSSING ROADWAYS.
   (a)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (b)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (c)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (d)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (e)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
   (f)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.48)
§ 371.04 MOVING IN CROSSWALKS.
   (a)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.49)
§ 371.05 WALKING ON SIDEWALKS AND STREETS.
   (a)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (b)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (c)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in §§
313.03 and
371.01, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, any pedestrian
upon a roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (e)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.50)
§ 371.06 SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS; RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE OR IN CARGO
STORAGE AREA.
   (a)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (b)   (1)   Except as provided in division (b)(2) of this section, no person
shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business or
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
      (2)   With rules approved by the City Manager, the Safety Director may
authorize the issuance of a permit to a charitable organization to allow a
person acting on behalf of the organization to solicit charitable contributions
from the occupant of a vehicle by standing on a highway, other than a freeway
as provided in R.C. § 4511.051(A), that is under the jurisdiction of the
municipality. The permit shall be valid for only one period of time, which
shall be specified in the permit, in any calendar year.
      (3)   As used in division (b)(2) of this section, “charitable
organization” means an organization that has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a currently valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-
exempt status of the organization pursuant to IRC 501(c)(3).
   (c)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (d)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (e)   No driver of a truck, trailer or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver’s vehicle if the vehicle is
traveling faster than 25 miles per hour, unless either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. §
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt; or
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer or
semitrailer.
   (f)   No driver of a truck, trailer or semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of the driver’s vehicle while the tailgate is
unlatched.
   (g)   Any person denied a permit by the Safety Director pursuant to this
section shall have the right to appeal said denial to City Council. Notice of
such appeal shall be submitted in writing to the Safety Director. A hearing on
such appeal shall be conducted at the next regularly scheduled Council meeting,
or at a Council meeting agreed to by the appealing party.
   (h)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
any provision of divisions (a) to (d) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates any provision of divisions (a) to (d) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any provision of divisions
(a) to (d) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (e) or (f) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2013-47, passed 8-12-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Hitchhiking - soliciting employment, business, or contributions from
occupant of vehicle, see R.C. § 4511.51
§ 371.07 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON SIDEWALKS.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right- of-way to any
pedestrian on a sidewalk.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.441)
§ 371.08 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (a)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as stated in
R.C. § 4511.45 or §
331.21, every pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the public safety
vehicle.
   (b)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.452)
§ 371.09 INTOXICATION.
   (a)   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol, any drug of abuse,
or any combination of them, to a degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard
shall not walk or be upon a highway.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.481)
§ 371.10 PASSING THROUGH BRIDGE SIGNALS OR RAILROAD BARRIERS.
   (a)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (b)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.511)
§ 371.11 MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR OPERATORS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair shall have all of the rights
and duties applicable to a pedestrian that are contained in this chapter,
except those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(R.C. § 4511.491)
§ 371.12 OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (a)   (1)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may be operated on
the public streets, highways, sidewalks and paths and portions of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this Traffic Code that by their nature are applicable to an electric personal
assistive mobility device apply to the device and the person operating it
whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk or path or
upon any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
      (3)   The municipality may regulate or prohibit the operation of electric
personal assistive mobility devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks and
paths, or portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
under its jurisdiction.
   (b)   No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         A.   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet; and
         B.   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or highway that has
an established speed limit of 55 miles per hour or more;
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path;
      (6)   If under 18 years of age, operate the device unless wearing a
protective helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened;
and
      (7)   If under 16 years of age, operate the device unless, during the
operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible supervision of
another person who is 18 years of age or older and is responsible for the
immediate care of the person under 16 years of age.
   (c)   No person who is under 14 years of age shall operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
   (d)   No person shall distribute or sell an electric personal assistive
mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a written statement that is
substantially equivalent to the following: “WARNING: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT – HELMET,
WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS AND KNEE PADS.”
   (e)   Nothing in this section affects or shall be construed to affect any
rule of the Director of Natural Resources or a Board of Park District
Commissioners governing the operation of vehicles on lands under the control of
the Director or Board, as applicable.
   (f)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (b) or (c) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
         A.   The offender shall be fined $10;
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (b) or (c) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to imposing the fine required under division (f)(1)A. of this section,
shall do one of the following:
            1.   Order the impoundment for not less than one day but no more
than 30 days of the electric personal assistive mobility device that was
involved in the current violation of that division. The court shall order the
device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the court and
may assess storage fees of not more than $5 per day; provided the total
storage, processing and release fees assessed against the offender or the
device in connection with the device’s impoundment or subsequent release shall
not exceed $50.
            2.   If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
division (f)(1)B.1. of this section, issue an order prohibiting the offender
from operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one day but not more than 30
days.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.512)
   (g)   As used in this code, ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE
means a self-balancing two non-tandem wheeled device that is designed to
transport only one person, has an electric propulsion system of an average of
750 watts, and when ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs
170 pounds has a maximum speed of less than 20 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4501.01(TT))
§ 371.13 OPERATION OF PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE ON SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   ELIGIBLE ENTITY. Means a corporation, partnership, association,
firm, sole proprietorship, or other entity engaged in business.
      (2)   PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE. Means an electrically powered device to
which all of the following apply:
         A.   The device is intended primarily to transport property and cargo
on sidewalks and crosswalks.
         B.   The device weighs less than 250 pounds excluding any property or
cargo being carried in the device.
         C.   The device has a maximum speed of ten miles per hour.
         D.   The device is equipped with technology that enables the operation
of the device with active control or monitoring by a person, without active
control or monitoring by a person, or both with or without active control or
monitoring by a person.
      (3)   PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE OPERATOR. Means an agent of an eligible
entity who exercises direct  physical control over, or monitoring of, the
navigation and operation of a personal delivery device. The phrase does not
include, with respect to a delivery or other service rendered by a personal
delivery device, the person who requests the delivery or service. The phrase
also does not include a person who only arranges for and dispatches a personal
delivery device for a delivery or other service.
   (b)   An eligible entity may operate a personal delivery device on sidewalks
and crosswalks so long as all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The personal delivery device is operated in accordance with all
regulations, if any, established by each local authority within which the
personal delivery device is operated.
      (2)   A personal delivery device operator is actively controlling or
monitoring the navigation and operation of the personal delivery device.
      (3)   The eligible entity maintains an insurance policy that includes
general liability coverage of not less than $100,000 for damages arising from
the operation of the personal delivery device by the eligible entity and any
agent of the eligible entity.
      (4)   The device is equipped with all of the following:
         A.   A marker that clearly identifies the name and contact information
of the eligible entity operating the personal delivery device and a unique
identification number;
         B.   A braking system that enables the personal delivery device to
come to a controlled stop;
         C.   If the personal delivery device is being operated between sunset
and sunrise, a light on both the front and rear of the personal delivery device
that is visible in clear weather from a distance of at least 500 feet to the
front and rear of the personal delivery device when directly in front of low
beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   (c)   No personal delivery device operator shall allow a personal delivery
device to do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with traffic or pedestrian control devices and
signals;
      (2)   Unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic;
      (3)   Transport any hazardous material that would require a permit issued
by the Public Utilities Commission;
      (4)   Operate on a street or highway, except when crossing the street or
highway within a crosswalk.
   (d)   A personal delivery device has all of the rights and obligations
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances, except that a personal
delivery device shall yield the right-of-way to human pedestrians on sidewalks
and crosswalks.
   (e)   (1)   No person shall operate a personal delivery device unless the
person is authorized to do so under this section and complies with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   An eligible entity is responsible for both of the following:
         A.   Any violation of this section that is committed by a personal
delivery device operator; and
         B.   Any other circumstance, including a technological malfunction, in
which a personal delivery device operates in a manner prohibited by divisions
(c)(1) to (c)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.513)
§ 371.14 LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICES.
   (a)   (1)   A low-speed micromobility device may be operated on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and may be operated on any
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance
with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this title that by their nature could apply to a low-speed micromobility device
do apply to the device and the person operating it whenever it is operated upon
any public street, highway, sidewalk, or shared-use path, or upon any portion
of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (b)   No operator of a low-speed micromobility device shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         A.   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         B.   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
   (c)   (1)   No person who is under 16 years of age shall rent a low-speed
micromobility device.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device to
a person who is under 16 years of age.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device on
behalf of a person who is under 16 years of age.
   (d)   No person shall operate a low-speed micromobility device at a speed
greater than 20 miles per hour.
   (e)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Unless a mens rea is otherwise specified in this section, an
offense established under this section is a strict liability offense and R.C. §
2901.20 does not apply. The designation of that offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
   (f)   Notwithstanding division (a)(1) of this section, the municipality,
county, township, metropolitan park district, township park district,
recreation district, or any division of the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources if the division has the approval of the Ohio Director of Natural
Resources may do any of the following:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit the operation of low-speed micromobility
devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, under its
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Include low-speed micromobility devices that are adapted to expand
access for people with various physical limitations into a shared bicycle,
shared electric bicycle, or similar vehicle sharing program, under its
jurisdiction;
      (3)   Require the owner or operator of a low-speed micromobility device
rental service or low-speed micromobility device sharing program to maintain
commercial general liability insurance related to the operation of the devices,
with limits of up to $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 per aggregate.
(R.C. § 4511.514)
§ 371.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:  
   See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 373: BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES AND SKATEBOARDS
Section
373.01   Code application to bicycles
373.02   Riding upon seats; carrying packages; motorcycle handle bars; helmets
and glasses
373.03   Attaching bicycles, motorcycles to other vehicles
373.04   Riding bicycles and motorcycles abreast (Recodified)
373.05   Signal device on bicycle (Recodified)
373.06   Lights, signal devices, brakes on bicycles
373.07   Riding on right side of roadway; riding abreast
373.08   Reckless operation; control, course and speed
373.09   Parking; locks
373.10   Operation of motorized bicycles
373.11   Operation on paths set aside for bicycles
373.12   Rules for skateboards
373.13   Reserved
373.14   Safe riding regulations for bicycles
373.15   Parent’s responsibility
373.16   Suspension of riding privileges; impounding of bicycles
373.17   Electric bicycles
373.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Bicycle defined, see §
301.04
   Bicycles prohibited on freeways, see §
303.06
   Hand and arm signals, see §
331.15
   Motorcycle brakes, see §
337.18(a)
   Motorcycle defined, see §
301.19
   Motorcycle headlight, see §
337.03
Statutory reference:
   Bicycle regulations to be consistent with state law, see R.C. § 4511.07(A)
(8)
   Motorcycle protective equipment, see O.A.C. Ch. 4501-17
   Motorized bicycle equipment, see O.A.C. Ch. 4501-23
§ 373.01 CODE APPLICATION TO BICYCLES.
   (a)   The provisions of this Traffic Code that are applicable to bicycles
and electric bicycles apply whenever a bicycle or electric bicycle is operated
upon any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (b)   Except as provided in division (d) of this section, a bicycle operator
or electric bicycle operator who violates any provisions of this Traffic Code
described in division (a) of this section that is applicable to bicycles or
electric bicycles may be issued a ticket, citation or summons by a law
enforcement officer for the violation in the same manner as the operator of a
motor vehicle would be cited for the same violation. A person who commits any
such violation while operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not have any
points assessed against the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit or probationary license under R.C. §
4510.036.
   (c)   Except as provided in division (d) of this section, in the case of a
violation of any provision of this Traffic Code described in division (a) of
this section by a bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator, or motor vehicle
operator when the trier of fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle
operator endangered the lives of bicycle riders or electric bicycle riders at
the time of the violation, the court, notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio
Revised Code to the contrary, may require the bicycle operator, electric
bicycle operator, or motor vehicle operator to take and successfully complete a
bicycling skills course approved by the court in addition to or in lieu of any
penalty otherwise prescribed by this Traffic Code or the Ohio Revised Code for
that violation.
   (d)   Divisions (b) and (c) of this section do not apply to violations of
R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.52)
   (e)   Every person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of
official traffic-control devices and signals applicable to vehicles, unless
otherwise directed by a police officer.
§ 373.02 RIDING UPON SEATS; CARRYING PACKAGES; MOTORCYCLE HANDLE BARS; HELMETS
AND GLASSES.
   (a)   For purposes of this section, SNOWMOBILE has the same meaning as given
that term in R.C. § 4519.01.
   (b)   (1)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall ride
other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or
carry any other person upon the bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon a
firmly attached and regular seat thereon, and no person shall ride upon a
bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular
seat.
      (2)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any
other person upon the motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
      (3)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (4)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle or article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
      (6)   No bicycle, electric bicycle, or motorcycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
No motorcycle shall be operated on a highway when the handlebars rise higher
than the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
operator’s seat or saddle.
   (c)   (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(3) of this section, no person
shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without using
safety glasses or other protective eye device. Except as provided in division
(c)(3) of this section, no person who is under the age of 18 years, or who
holds a motorcycle operator’s endorsement or license bearing a “novice”
designation that is currently in effect as provided in R.C. § 4507.13, shall
operate a motorcycle on a highway, or be a passenger on a motorcycle, unless
wearing a protective helmet on the person’s head, and no other person shall be
a passenger on a motorcycle operated by such a person unless similarly wearing
a protective helmet. The helmet, safety glasses, or other protective eye device
shall conform with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. The
provisions of this paragraph or a violation thereof shall not be used in the
trial of any civil action.
      (2)   A.   Except as provided in division (c)(3) of this section, no
person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary instruction permit and
temporary instruction permit identification card issued by the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 unless the person, at the time of
such operation, is wearing on the person’s head a protective helmet that
conforms with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
         B.   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 in any of the
following circumstances:
            1.   At any time when lighted lights are required by R.C. § 4513.03
(A)(1);
            2.   While carrying a passenger;
            3.   On any limited access highway.
      (3)   Divisions (c)(1) and (c)(2)A. of this section do not apply to a
person who operates or is a passenger in an autocycle or cab-enclosed
motorcycle when the occupant compartment top is in place enclosing the
occupants.
   (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (e)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (b) or (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates division (b) or (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (b) or (c)(1) or
(c)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.53)
§ 373.03 ATTACHING BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES TO OTHER VEHICLES.
   (a)   (1)   No person riding upon any bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or
himself or herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy
vehicle to attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle while it is
moving upon a roadway.
      (3)   This section does not apply to towing a disabled vehicle.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.54)
§ 373.04 RIDING BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES ABREAST (RECODIFIED).
Editor’s note:
   Sections 373.04 and 373.07 were combined as part of the 2004 updating and
revision of these codified ordinances. For provisions regarding riding bicycles
and motorcycles abreast, please see §
373.07.
§ 373.05 SIGNAL DEVICE ON BICYCLE (RECODIFIED).
Editor’s note:
   Sections 373.05 and 373.06 were combined as part of the 2004 updating and
revision of these codified ordinances. For provisions regarding signal device
on bicycle, please see §
373.06.
§ 373.06 LIGHTS, SIGNAL DEVICES, BRAKES ON BICYCLES.
   (a)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle when in use at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be
equipped with the following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or electric
bicycle or the operator that shall emit a white light visible from a distance
of at least 500 feet to the front and 300 feet to the sides. A generator-
powered lamp that emits light only when the bicycle or electric bicycle is
moving may be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector. If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as
specified in division (a)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve as the
reflector and a separate reflector is not required.
   (b)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under division (a) of this section, except that red lamps and red
reflectors shall not be used on the front of the bicycle or electric bicycle
and white lamps and white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (c)   A bicycle or electric bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of
giving an audible signal, except that a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle or electric bicycle
any siren or whistle.
   (d)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate
brake when used on a street or highway.
   (e)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.56)
§ 373.07 RIDING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; RIDING ABREAST.
   (a)   Every person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all
traffic rules applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (b)   Persons riding bicycles, electric bicycles, or motorcycles upon a
roadway shall ride not more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths
or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, electric
bicycles, or motorcycles.
   (c)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle or electric
bicycle to ride at the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to
do so. Conditions that may require riding away from the edge of the roadway
include when necessary to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving
vehicles, surface hazards, or if it otherwise is unsafe or impracticable to do
so, including if the lane is too narrow for the bicycle or electric bicycle and
an overtaking vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (e)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(b).
(R.C. § 4511.55)
§ 373.08 RECKLESS OPERATION; CONTROL, COURSE AND SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle:
   (a)   Without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians and
drivers and occupants of all other vehicles, and so as to endanger the life,
limb or property of any person while in the lawful use of the streets or
sidewalks or any other public or private property;
   (b)   Without exercising reasonable and ordinary control over the bicycle;
   (c)   In a weaving or zigzag course unless the irregular course is necessary
for safe operation in compliance with law;
   (d)   Without both hands upon the handle grips except when necessary to give
the required hand and arm signals, or as provided in §
373.02(b); and/or
   (e)   At a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions
then existing.
§ 373.09 PARKING; LOCKS.
   (a)   No person shall park a bicycle upon a sidewalk in such a manner as to
interfere with pedestrian traffic or damage the property of another.
   (b)   No person shall park a bicycle upon a roadway in such a manner as to
interfere with vehicular traffic.
   (c)   No bicycle shall remain unlocked when parked upon any public way or
place.
§ 373.10 OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLES.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, unless all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person is 14 or 15 years of age and holds a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided
for in this section, or the person is 16 years of age or older and holds either
a valid commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or a
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid motorized bicycle
license issued after the person has passed the test provided for in this
section, except that if a person is 16 years of age, has a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license and desires a motorized bicycle license, the person
is not required to comply with the testing requirements provided for in this
section.
      (2)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with the rules
adopted under division (b) of this section and is in proper working order.
      (3)   The person, if under 18 years of age, is wearing a protective
helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened and the
motorized bicycle is equipped with a rearview mirror.
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
   (b)   The Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C. Chapter 119, shall
adopt and promulgate rules concerning protective helmets, the equipment of
motorized bicycles, and the testing and qualifications of persons who do not
hold a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license. The test shall be as near
as practicable to the examination required for a motorcycle operator’s
endorsement under R.C. § 4507.11. The test shall also require the operator to
give an actual demonstration of the operator’s ability to operate and control a
motorized bicycle by driving one under the supervision of an examining officer.
   (c)   Every motorized bicycle license expires on the birthday of the
applicant in the fourth or eighth year after the date it is issued, based on
the period of renewal requested by the applicant. No motorized bicycle license
shall be issued for a period longer than eight years. A person who is 65 years
of age or older may only apply for a motorized bicycle license that expires on
the birthday of the applicant in the fourth year after the date it is issued.
   (d)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry another person
upon the motorized bicycle.
   (e)   The protective helmet and rearview mirror required by division (a)(3)
of this section shall, on and after January 1, 1985, conform with rules adopted
by the Director under division (b) of this section.
   (f)   Whoever violates division (a), (d) or (e) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.521)
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of probationary motorized bicycle license by the state, see R.C.
§ 4510.34
§ 373.11 OPERATION ON PATHS SET ASIDE FOR BICYCLES.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, snowmobile or all-
purpose vehicle upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, when
an appropriate sign giving notice of that use is posted on the path.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any rule of
the Director of Natural Resources governing the operation of motor vehicles,
snowmobiles, all-purpose vehicles and bicycles on lands under the Director’s
jurisdiction.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.713(A), (B))
§ 373.12 RULES FOR SKATEBOARDS.
   (a)   No person shall use or operate a skateboard upon any public street,
road, off-street parking facility or No Skate Zone Area except for special
events approved by the City Manager; provided, however persons using
skateboards can cross public streets at designated crosswalks. The following
shall be designated as No Skate Zone Areas:
      (1)   Mason Veterans Memorial plaza;
      (2)   Downtown plaza located on Main Street;
      (3)   All park playground structures and surrounding borders;
      (4)   Corwin Nixon Park and Mason Sports Park ball fields and adjacent
spectator areas;
      (5)   Mason Community Center entranceways;
      (6)   Bridges located within the city; and
      (7)   Any other area so designated by the City Manager upon the
recommendation of the Police Chief and indicated by the posting of a sign.
   (b)   No person shall operate a skateboard upon any privately-owned off-
street parking facility offered for public use without the expressed permission
of the owner or custodian thereof.
   (c)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Ord. 2008-42, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 373.13 RESERVED.
§ 373.14 SAFE RIDING REGULATIONS FOR BICYCLES.
   (a)   No person shall ride a bicycle across or through any intersection
involving a through street. These intersections are to be crossed by walking
the bicycle across or through the intersection.
   (b)   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person,
before overtaking and passing a blind person carrying a white or metallic cane,
shall dismount and overtake or pass on foot.
   (c)   When a bicycle is operated on the street, the operator shall give hand
signals before turning, changing lanes or stopping. The signals shall conform
with R.C. § 4511.40, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (d)   Every rider of a bicycle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding
with any pedestrian or any vehicle upon any roadway, sidewalk or bicycle path,
or endangering the life, limb or property of any person while in the lawful use
of the streets, sidewalks or any other private or public property.
   (e)   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and proper under the conditions then existing.
   (f)   The operator of a bicycle emerging from or turning into an alley,
driveway or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area
extending across any alley, driveway or building, yield the right-of-way to all
pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk area. Upon entering the street, the
operator shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
street.
   (g)   No person shall engage in trick riding or operate a bicycle without
both hands upon the handle grips except when necessary to give the hand signals
required herein.
§ 373.15 PARENT’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   No parent of any child or guardian of any ward shall authorize or knowingly
permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this chapter.
§ 373.16 SUSPENSION OF RIDING PRIVILEGES; IMPOUNDING OF BICYCLES.
   In addition to the penalties provided in §
303.99, a court may prohibit any person who violates or fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter relating to bicycles from riding a
bicycle for a period not to exceed three months. In addition, any person
violating or failing to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter
relating to bicycles may be punished by having his or her bicycle impounded for
a period not exceeding 30 days.
§ 373.17 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (a)   (1)   On and after January 1, 2020, manufacturers and distributors of
electric bicycles shall permanently affix a label, in a prominent location, to
each electric bicycle. The label shall specify whether the electric bicycle is
a class 1, class 2, or class 3 electric bicycle, the top assisted speed that
the electric bicycle is capable of reaching, and the motor wattage of the
electric bicycle.
      (2)   No person shall modify an electric bicycle in a manner that changes
the top assisted speed that the electric bicycle is capable of reaching unless
the person also modifies the label required under division (a)(1) of this
section to reflect the modification.
   (b)   (1)   The manufacturer of an electric bicycle shall ensure that the
electric bicycle complies with the equipment and manufacturing requirements for
bicycles established by the consumer product safety commission under 16 C.F.R.
§§ 1512 et seq.
      (2)   The manufacturer shall manufacture all class 1 electric bicycles
and class 3 electric bicycles so that when the rider ceases pedaling the
electric motor ceases to provide assistance. The manufacturer shall manufacture
all class 2 electric bicycles so that when the rider applies the brakes or
releases or activates a switch or similar mechanism the electric motor ceases
to provide assistance.
      (3)   All class 3 electric bicycles shall be equipped with a speedometer
that displays the speed of the electric bicycle in miles per hour.
   (c)   (1)   The operation of a class 1 electric bicycle and a class 2
electric bicycle is permitted on a path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or on a shared-use path, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule prohibits the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle or class 2 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (2)   No person shall operate a class 3 electric bicycle on a path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or a shared-use path unless that path
is within or adjacent to a highway or the county, township, municipal
corporation, or local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60 with
control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use of a
class 3 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (3)   No person shall operate a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2
electric bicycle, or a class 3 electric bicycle on a path that is intended to
be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar
uses, or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically
been reserved for non-motorized use, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2 electric bicycle, or a class 3
electric bicycle on such a path.
      (4)   Divisions (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section do not apply to a law
enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic
laws of the state, using an electric bicycle while in the performance of the
officer's duties.
   (d)   (1)   No person under 16 years of age shall operate a class 3 electric
bicycle; however, a person under 16 years of age may ride as a passenger on a
class 3 electric bicycle that is designed to accommodate passengers.
      (2)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a class 3 electric
bicycle unless the person is wearing a protective helmet that meets the
standards established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission or the American
Society for Testing and Materials.
   (e)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever operates
an electric bicycle in a manner that is prohibited under division (c) of this
section and whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under division (e)(1) of this section are
strict liability offenses and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of these offenses as strict
liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4511.522)
§ 373.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:  
   See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 375: SNOWMOBILES, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLES AND ALL- PURPOSE VEHICLES
Section
375.01   Definitions
375.02   Equipment
375.03   Code application; prohibited operation
375.04   Permitted operation
375.05   Licensing requirements of operator
375.06   Registration of vehicles
375.07   Accident reports
375.08   Operation of off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle without
certificate of title; failure to surrender
375.09   Local control within police power
375.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required usage of helmets and safety glasses, see §
373.02
   Street or highway defined, see §
301.42
Statutory reference:
   Lights, brakes and muffler, see O.A.C. Ch. 4501.29
   Power of trial court of record to impound registration certificate for
certain violations, see R.C. § 4519.47
   Power to regulate; municipal licensing prohibited, see R.C. § 4519.48
§ 375.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE. Any self- propelled vehicle designed primarily
for cross-country travel on land and water, or on more than one type of
terrain, and steered by wheels or caterpillar treads, or any combination
thereof, including vehicles that operate on a cushion of air, vehicles commonly
known as all-terrain vehicles, all season vehicles, mini-bikes and trail bikes.
The term does not include a utility vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or any
vehicle principally used in playing golf, any motor vehicle or aircraft
required to be registered under R.C. Chapter 4503 or R.C. Chapter 4561, and any
vehicle excepted from definition as a motor vehicle by R.C. § 4501.01(B).
   (b)   DEALER. Any person or firm engaged in the business of manufacturing or
selling snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles or all-purpose vehicles at
wholesale or retail, or who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes snowmobiles,
off-highway motorcycles or all-purpose vehicles for hire.
   (c)   ELECTRONIC and ELECTRONIC RECORD. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4501.01.
   (d)   ELECTRONIC DEALER. A dealer whom the Registrar of Motor Vehicles
designates under R.C. § 4519.511.
   (e)   INTERSTATE HIGHWAY. Any part of the interstate system of highways as
defined in subsection (e), 90 Stat. 431 (1976), 23 U.S.C. § 103, as amended.
   (f)   LIMITED-ACCESS HIGHWAY or FREEWAY. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
5511.02.
   (g)   MINI-TRUCK. A vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an
electric motor with a rated power of 7,500 watts or less or an internal
combustion engine with a piston displacement capacity of 660 cubic centimeters
or less, has a total dry weight of 900 to 2,200 pounds, contains an enclosed
cabin and a seat for the vehicle operator, resembles a pickup truck or van with
a cargo area or bed located at the rear of the vehicle, and was not originally
manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle safety standards.
   (h)   OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE. Every motorcycle, as defined in R.C. §
4511.01, that is designed to be operated primarily on lands other than a street
or highway.
   (i)   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of
a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle.
   (j)   OWNER. Any person or firm, other than a lienholder or dealer, having
title to a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or other
right to the possession thereof.
   (k)   PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4509.01.
   (l)   SNOWMOBILE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for use on
snow or ice, and steered by skis, runners or caterpillar treads.
   (m)   STATE HIGHWAY and STATE ROUTE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
   (n)   STREET or HIGHWAY. Have the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4519.01)
§ 375.02 EQUIPMENT.
   (a)   In addition to any rules or regulations promulgated by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. § 4519.20 and R.C. Chapter 119,
equipment of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles and all-purpose vehicles
shall include but not necessarily be limited to requirements for the following
items of equipment:
      (1)   At least one headlight having a minimum candlepower of sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and objects at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (2)   At least one red tail light having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to be plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (3)   Every snowmobile, while traveling on packed snow, shall be capable
of carrying a driver who weighs 175 pounds or more, and, while carrying the
driver, be capable of stopping in no more than 40 feet from an initial steady
speed of 20 miles per hour, or locking its traction belt; and
      (4)   A muffler system capable of precluding the emission of excessive
smoke or exhaust fumes, and of limiting the engine noise of vehicles. On
snowmobiles manufactured after January 1, 1973, the requirement shall include
sound dampening equipment such that noise does not exceed 82 decibels on the
“A” scale at 50 feet as measured according to SAE J192 (September 1970).
   (b)   No person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle in violation of this section, except that equipment specified
in division (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section shall not be required on
snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles or all-purpose vehicles operated during
the daylight hours.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (b) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (b)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.20(B), whoever violates division (b) of this
section shall be fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not
more than three days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.20)
§ 375.03 CODE APPLICATION; PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   (a)   The applicable provisions of this traffic code apply to the operation
of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles, except that
no person shall operate a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle as follows:
      (1)   On any state highway, including a limited access highway or freeway
or the right-of-way thereof, except for emergency travel during such time and
in such manner as the Ohio Director of Public Safety designates or except as
authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F);
      (2)   On any private property, or in any nursery or planting area,
without the permission of the owner or other person having the right to
possession of the property;
      (3)   On any land or waters controlled by the state, except at those
locations where a sign has been posted permitting the operation;
      (4)   On the tracks or right-of-way of any operating railroad;
      (5)   While transporting any firearm, bow or other implement for hunting
that is not unloaded and securely encased;
      (6)   For the purpose of chasing, pursuing, capturing or killing any
animal or wild fowl; or
      (7)   During the time from sunset to sunrise, unless displaying lighted
lights as required by R.C. § 4519.20 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, or imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.40)
§ 375.04 PERMITTED OPERATION.
   Snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles and all- purpose vehicles may be
operated as follows:
   (a)   To make a crossing of a highway, other than a highway as designated in
R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
whenever the crossing can be made in safety and will not interfere with the
movement of vehicular traffic approaching from any direction on the highway,
and provided that the operator yields the right-of-way to any approaching
traffic that presents an immediate hazard;
   (b)   On highways in the county or township road systems whenever the local
authority having jurisdiction over the highways so permits;
   (c)   Off and alongside street or highway for limited distances from the
point of unloading from a conveyance to the point at which the snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle is intended and authorized to be
operated;
   (d)   On the berm or shoulder of a highway, other than a highway as
designated in R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1), or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, when the terrain permits the operation to be undertaken safely and
without the necessity of entering any traffic lane;
   (e)   On the berm or shoulder or a county or township road, while traveling
from one area of operation of the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle to another such area.
   (f)   For snowmobiles without metal studded tracks and all-purpose vehicles,
on state highways located on an island in Lake Erie, including limited access
highways and freeways, between the first day of November and the thirtieth day
of April, provided that all of the following conditions apply:
      (1)   The operator has a valid driver’s license as required under R.C. §
4519.44.
      (2)   The snowmobile or all- purpose vehicle is in compliance with rules
governing safety equipment adopted under R.C. § 4519.20.
      (3)   The owner of the snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle maintains proof
of financial responsibility for both on-road and off- road use of the
snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle.
      (4)   The operator obeys all traffic rules and regulations.
(R.C. § 4519.41)
§ 375.05 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS OF OPERATOR.
   (a)   No person who does not hold a valid, current motor vehicle driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, motorcycle operator’s endorsement or probationary
license, issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid,
current driver’s license issued by another jurisdiction, shall operate a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle on any street or
highway in this municipality, on any portion of the right-of-way thereof, or on
any public land or waters.
   (b)   No person who is less than 16 years of age shall operate a snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle on any land or waters other than
private property or waters owned by or leased to the person’s parent or
guardian, unless accompanied by another person who is 18 years of age or older,
and who holds a license as provided in division (a) of this section, except
that the Ohio Department of Natural Resources may permit the operation on
state-controlled land under its jurisdiction when the person is less than 16
years of age and is accompanied by a parent or guardian who is a licensed
driver 18 years of age or older.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, or imprisoned not less than three nor more than 30 days, or
both.
(R.C. § 4519.44)
§ 375.06 REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES.
   (a)   (1)   Except as provided in division (b), (c) and (d) of this section,
no person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle within this municipality unless the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle
or all-purpose vehicle is registered and numbered in accordance with R.C. §§
4519.03 and 4519.04.
      (2)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.215 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, no registration is required for a mini- truck that is
operated within this state. A mini-truck may be operated only in accordance
with R.C. § 4511.215 and R.C. § 4519.401, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (b)   (1)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle that is operated exclusively upon lands owned by the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle, or on lands to which the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle has a contractual right.
      (2)   No registration is required for an all-purpose vehicle that is used
primarily for agricultural purposes when the owner qualifies for the current
agricultural use valuation tax credit, unless it is to be used on any public
land, trail, or right-of-way.
      (3)   Any all-purpose vehicle exempted from registration under division
(b)(2) of this section and operated for agricultural purposes may use public
roads and rights-of-way when traveling from one farm field to another, when
such use does not violate R.C. § 4519.41.
      (4)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle
that is operated on a state highway as authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F).
   (c)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident of another
state whenever that state has in effect a registration law similar to R.C.
Chapter 4519 and the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle
is properly registered under that state’s law. Any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident of
a state not having a registration law similar to R.C. Chapter 4519 shall comply
with R.C. § 4519.09.
   (d)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this municipality by the United
States, another state or a political subdivision thereof, but the snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle shall display the name of the
owner thereon.
   (e)   The owner or operator of any all-purpose vehicle operated or used upon
the waters in this municipality shall comply with R.C. Chapters 1547 and 1548
relative to the operation of watercraft.
   (f)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $100.
(R.C. § 4519.02)
Statutory reference:
   Destruction or disposal of vehicle; transfer of ownership; change of
address; loss of certificate, see R.C. § 4519.05
   Registration of emergency vehicles, see R.C. § 4519.08
   Registration procedure, see R.C. § 4519.03
   Temporary license placards and fees, see R.C. § 4519.10
   Temporary operating permit for certain nonresidents, see R.C. § 4519.09
§ 375.07 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (a)   The operator of a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle involved in any accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any
person or damage to the property of any person in excess of $100 shall report
the accident within 48 hours to the Chief of Police, and within 30 days shall
forward a written report of the accident to the Ohio Registrar of Motor
Vehicles on a form prescribed by the Registrar. If the operator is physically
incapable of making the reports and there is another participant in the
accident not so incapacitated, the participant shall make the reports. In the
event there is no other participant, and the operator is other than the owner,
the owner, within the prescribed periods of time, shall make the reports.
   (b)   Any law enforcement officer or other person authorized by R.C. §§
4519.42 and 4519.43 who investigates or receives information of an accident
involving a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle shall
forward to the Registrar a written report of the accident within 48 hours.
(R.C. § 4519.46)
§ 375.08 OPERATION OF OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE OR ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE WITHOUT
CERTIFICATE OF TITLE; FAILURE TO SURRENDER.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle without having a certificate of title for the off-highway motorcycle or
all- purpose vehicle if such a certificate is required by R.C. Chapter 4519 to
be issued for the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or, if a
physical certificate of title has not been issued for it, operate an off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle knowing that the ownership
information related to the motorcycle or vehicle has not been entered into the
automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common Pleas.
      (2)   Operate in this municipality an off- highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle if a certificate of title to the off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle has been issued and then has been canceled.
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title upon cancellation of it
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed
in R.C. Chapter 4519.
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4519, in case of the destruction or
dismantling of, or change in, the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle
described in the certificate of title.
      (5)   Violate any provision of R.C. §§ 4519.51 to 4519.70 for which no
penalty is otherwise provided or any lawful rules adopted pursuant to those
sections.
      (6)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle knowing that the certificate of title to or ownership of the motorcycle
or vehicle as otherwise reflected in the automated title processing system has
been canceled.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200, or
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.66)
§ 375.09 LOCAL CONTROL WITHIN POLICE POWER.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent the municipality from
regulating the operation of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycle and all-purpose
vehicles on streets and highways and other public property under municipal
jurisdiction, and within the reasonable exercise of the police power, except
that no registration or licensing of any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle required to be registered or titled under R.C. Chapter 4519
shall be required.
(R.C. § 4519.48)
§ 375.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:  
   See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
PART FIVE: GENERAL OFFENSES CODE
         Chap.
501. General Provisions and Penalty
         Chap.
505. Animals and Fowl
         Chap.
509. Disorderly Conduct and Peace Disturbance
         Chap.
511. Noise Control
         Chap.
513. Drug Abuse Control
         Chap.
517. Gambling
         Chap.
521. Health, Safety and Sanitation
         Chap.
525. Law Enforcement and Public Office
         Chap.
529. Liquor Control
         Chap.
533. Obscenity and Sex Offenses
         Chap.
537. Offenses Against Persons
         Chap.
541. Property Offenses
         Chap.
545. Theft and Fraud
         Chap.
549. Weapons and Explosives
CHAPTER 501: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND PENALTY
Section
501.01   Definitions
501.02   Classification of offenses
501.03   Offenses defined
501.04   Rules of construction
501.05   Criminal law jurisdiction
501.06   Limitation of criminal prosecutions
501.07   Requirements for criminal liability; voluntary intoxication
501.08   Culpable mental states
501.09   Attempts
501.10   Complicity
501.11   Organizational criminal liability
501.12   Personal accountability for organizational conduct
501.13   Confinement cost reimbursement
501.14   Arrest of person violating probation or community control sanction
501.15   Self defense; limitations on duty to retreat prior to using force
501.16   Multiple sentences
501.17   Suspension of driver’s license
501.99   Penalties for misdemeanors
Statutory reference:
   Citation issuance for minor misdemeanors, see R.C. §§ 2935.26 et seq.
   Limitation of prosecution for income tax violations, see R.C. § 718.06
   Penalty considerations, see R.C. § 2929.22
§ 501.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE, CONTRIBUTION, LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN FUND, POLITICAL
ACTION COMMITTEE, POLITICAL CONTRIBUTING ENTITY AND POLITICAL PARTY. Have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   (b)   CONTRABAND. Any property that is illegal for a person to acquire or
possess under a statute, ordinance or rule, or that a trier of fact lawfully
determines to be illegal to possess by reason of the property’s involvement in
an offense. CONTRABAND includes but is not limited to all of the following:
      (1)   Any controlled substance, as defined in R.C. § 3719.01, or any
device or paraphernalia related thereto;
      (2)   Any unlawful gambling device or paraphernalia; and
      (3)   Any dangerous ordnance or obscene material.
   (c)   DEADLY FORCE. Any force that carries a substantial risk that it will
proximately result in the death of any person.
   (d)   DETENTION. Arrest; confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an arrest;
confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons charged
with or convicted of crime in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or unruly child
in this state or another state or under the laws of the United States;
hospitalization, institutionalization or confinement in any public or private
facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of R.C. § 2945.37,
§ 2945.371, § 2945.38, § 2945.39, § 2945.40, § 2945.401 or § 2945.402;
confinement in any vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of
those natures; detention for extradition or deportation; except as provided in
this division, supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those
natures that is incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization or
confinement in the facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision
by an employee of the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction of a person
on any type of release from a state correctional institution; or confinement in
any vehicle, airplane or place while being returned from outside of this state
into this state by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered
into under R.C. § 311.29(E) or R.C. § 5149.03(B). For a person confined in a
county jail who participates in a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C.
§ 5147.30, detention includes time spent at an assigned work site and going to
and from the work site.
   (e)   DETENTION FACILITY. Any public or private place used for the
confinement of a person charged with or convicted of any crime in this state or
another state or under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be
a delinquent child or an unruly child in this state or another state or under
the laws of the United States.
   (f)   FORCE. Any violence, compulsion or constraint physically exerted by
any means upon or against a person or thing.
   (g)   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff, constable, police officer of a township
or joint police district, Marshal, Deputy Marshal, municipal police officer,
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
R.C. § 3735.31(D) or State Highway Patrol trooper.
      (2)   An officer, agent or employee of the state or any of its agencies,
instrumentalities or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a duty to
conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and the
authority to arrest violators is conferred, within the limits of such statutory
duty and authority.
      (3)   The Mayor, in a capacity as chief conservator of the peace within
the municipality.
      (4)   A member of an auxiliary police force organized by the county,
township or municipal law enforcement authorities, within the scope of the
member’s appointment or commission.
      (5)   A person lawfully called pursuant to R.C. § 311.07 to aid a sheriff
in keeping the peace, for the purposes and during the time when the person is
called.
      (6)   A person appointed by a Mayor pursuant to R.C. § 737.10 as a
special patrolling officer during a riot or emergency, for the purposes and
during the time when the person is appointed.
      (7)   A member of the organized militia of this state or the Armed Forces
of the United States, lawfully called to duty to aid civil authorities in
keeping the peace or protect against domestic violence.
      (8)   A prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, secret
service officer or municipal prosecutor.
      (9)   A veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. § 5907.02.
      (10)   A member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y).
      (11)   A special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or § 4582.28.
      (12)   The House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms if the House of
Representatives Sergeant at Arms has arrest authority pursuant to R.C. §
101.311(E)(1) and an Assistant House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms.
      (13)   The Senate Sergeant at Arms and an Assistant Senate Sergeant at
Arms.
      (14)   A special police officer employed by a municipal corporation at a
municipal airport, or other municipal air navigation facility, that has
scheduled operations, as defined in 14 C.F.R. § 119.3, as amended, and that is
required to be under a security program and is governed by aviation security
rules of the Transportation Security Administration of the United States
Department of Transportation as provided in 49 C.F.R. Parts 1542 and 1544, as
amended.
   (h)   NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF INSANITY. A person is NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF
INSANITY relative to a charge of an offense only if the person proves, in the
manner specified in R.C. § 2901.05, that at the time of the commission of the
offense, he or she did not know, as a result of a severe mental disease or
defect, the wrongfulness of his or her acts.
   (i)   OFFENSE OF VIOLENCE.
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.01, § 2903.02, § 2903.03, § 2903.04, §
2903.11, § 2903.12, § 2903.13, § 2903.15, § 2903.18, § 2903.21, § 2903.211, §
2903.22, § 2905.01, § 2905.02, § 2905.11, § 2905.32, § 2907.02, § 2907.03, §
2907.05, § 2909.02, § 2909.03, § 2909.24, § 2911.01, § 2911.02, § 2911.11, §
2917.01, § 2917.02, § 2917.03, § 2917.31, § 2917.321, § 2919.25, § 2921.03, §
2921.04, § 2921.34 or § 2923.161, of division (A)(1) of R.C. § 2903.34, of
division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of R.C. § 2911.12, or of division (B)(1), (B)
(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) of R.C. § 2919.22, or felonious sexual penetration in
violation of former R.C. § 2907.12;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States, substantially equivalent to
any section, division or offense listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense, other than a traffic offense, under an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or of the United
States, committed purposely or knowingly, and involving physical harm to
persons or a risk of serious physical harm to persons;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2) or (3) of this definition;
      (5)   A violation of division (C) of R.C. § 959.131.
   (j)   OFFICIAL PROCEEDING. Any proceeding before a legislative, judicial,
administrative or other governmental agency or official authorized to take
evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary or other person taking testimony or a deposition
in connection with an official proceeding.
   (k)   PARTY OFFICIAL. Any person who holds an elective or appointive post in
a political party in the United States or this state, by virtue of which he or
she directs, conducts or participates in directing or conducting party affairs
at any level of responsibility.
   (l)   PERSON.
      (1)   A.   Subject to division (2) of this definition, as used in any
section contained in this general offenses code that sets forth a criminal
offense, PERSON includes all of the following:
            1.   An individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
            2.   An unborn human who is viable.
         B.   As used in any section contained in this general offenses code
that does not set forth a criminal offense, PERSON includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate, partnership and association.
         C.   As used in division (1)A.2. of this definition, UNBORN HUMAN
means an individual organism of the species homo sapiens from fertilization
until live birth. VIABLE means the stage of development of a human fetus at
which there is a realistic probability of maintaining and nourishing of a life
outside the womb with or without temporary artificial life-sustaining support.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1)A. of this definition, in no case shall
the portion of the definition of the term PERSON that is set forth in division
(1)A.2. of this definition be applied or construed in any section contained in
this general offenses code that sets forth a criminal offense in any of the
following manners:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (2)A. of this
definition, in a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as
prohibiting any pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion
with the consent of the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman
implied by law in a medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise
authorized by law to consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant
woman. An abortion that violates the conditions described in the immediately
preceding sentence may be punished as a violation of R.C. § 2903.01, § 2903.02,
§ 2903.03, § 2903.04, § 2903.05, § 2903.06, § 2903.08, § 2903.11, § 2903.12, §
2903.13, § 2903.14, § 2903.21 or § 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, as applicable. An abortion that does not violate the
conditions described in the second immediately preceding sentence but that does
violate R.C. § 2919.12, § 2919.13(B), § 2919.15, § 2919.151, § 2919.17 or §
2919.18, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, may be punished
as a violation of that section, as applicable. Consent is sufficient under this
division if it is of the type otherwise adequate to permit medical treatment to
the pregnant woman, even if it does not comply with R.C. § 2919.12.
         B.   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
            1.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby.
            2.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying.
            3.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human.
            4.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human.
            5.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
   (m)   PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any injury, illness or other physiological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
   (n)   PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any tangible or intangible damage to
property that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with
its use or enjoyment. PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY does not include wear and tear
occasioned by normal use.
   (o)   PRIVILEGE. An immunity, license or right conferred by law, or bestowed
by express or implied grant, or arising out of status, position, office or
relationship, or growing out of necessity.
   (p)   PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and any
interest or license in that property. PROPERTY includes but is not limited to
cable television service, other telecommunications service, telecommunications
devices, information service, computers, data, computer software, financial
instruments associated with computers, other documents associated with
computers, or copies of the documents, whether in machine or human-readable
form, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents, and property protected by
a trademark, copyright or patent. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS ASSOCIATED WITH
COMPUTERS include but are not limited to checks, drafts, warrants, money
orders, notes of indebtedness, certificates of deposit, letters of credit,
bills of credit or debit cards, financial transaction authorization mechanisms,
marketable securities or any computer system representations of any of them.
      (2)   As used in this definition, TRADE SECRET has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 1333.61, and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE and INFORMATION SERVICE have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in this definition and in the definition of CONTRABAND in
this section, CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE, COMPUTER, COMPUTER NETWORK, COMPUTER
SOFTWARE, COMPUTER SYSTEM, DATA, AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (q)   PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
   (r)   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Any elected or appointed officer, employee or agent
of the state or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a temporary or
permanent capacity, and includes but is not limited to legislators, judges and
law enforcement officers.
   (s)   PUBLIC SERVANT. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any public official.
      (2)   Any person performing ad hoc a governmental function, including,
but not limited to, a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor or consultant.
      (3)   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not he or
she is elected or appointed to the office for which he or she is a candidate. A
person is a candidate for purposes of this division if he or she has been
nominated according to law for election or appointment to public office, or if
he or she has filed a petition or petitions as required by law to have his or
her name placed on the ballot in a primary, general or special election, or if
he or she campaigns as a write-in candidate in any primary, general or special
election.
   (t)   RISK. A significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote
possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may
exist.
   (u)   SCHOOL, SCHOOL BUILDING AND SCHOOL PREMISES. Have the same meanings as
in R.C. § 2925.01.
   (v)   SCHOOL ACTIVITY. Any activity held under the auspices of a board of
education of a city, local, exempted village, joint vocational or cooperative
education school district; a governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; a governing board of an educational
service center; or the governing body of a nonpublic school for which the
Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. §
3301.07.
   (w)   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (x)   SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE. Consists of a school, school building, school
premises, school activity and school bus.
   (y)   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mental illness or condition of such gravity as would normally
require hospitalization or prolonged psychiatric treatment;
      (2)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
      (3)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or that involves some temporary, substantial incapacity;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent disfigurement, or
that involves some temporary, serious disfigurement;
      (5)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of such duration as to
result in substantial suffering, or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
   (z)   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any physical harm to property that
does either of the following:
      (1)   Results in substantial loss to the value of the property, or
requires a substantial amount of time, effort or money to repair or replace;
      (2)   Temporarily prevents the use or enjoyment of the property, or
substantially interferes with its use or enjoyment for an extended period of
time.
   (aa)   SUBSTANTIAL RISK. A strong possibility, as contrasted with a remote
or significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain
circumstances may exist.
   (bb)   VALUABLE THING or VALUABLE BENEFIT. Includes but is not limited to a
contribution. This inclusion does not indicate or imply that a contribution was
not included in those terms before September 17, 1986.
(R.C. §§ 2901.01, 2921.01)
§ 501.02 CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES.
   As used in this General Offenses Code:
   (a)   Offenses include misdemeanors of the first, second, third and fourth
degree, minor misdemeanors and offenses not specifically classified.
   (b)   Regardless of the penalty that may be imposed, any offense
specifically classified as a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor.
   (c)   Any offense not specifically classified is a misdemeanor if
imprisonment for not more than one year may be imposed as a penalty.
   (d)   Any offense not specifically classified is a minor misdemeanor if the
only penalty that may be imposed is one of the following:
      (1)   For an offense committed prior to January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $100; and/or
      (2)   For an offense committed on or after January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $150, community service under R.C. § 2929.27(D), or a financial
sanction other than a fine under R.C. § 2929.28.
(R.C. § 2901.02)
§ 501.03 OFFENSES DEFINED.
   (a)   No conduct constitutes a criminal offense against the municipality
unless it is defined as an offense in this general offenses code.
   (b)   An offense is defined when one or more sections of this general
offenses code state a positive prohibition or enjoin a specific duty, and
provide a penalty for violation of the prohibition or failure to meet that
duty.
   (c)   This section does not affect the power of a court to punish for
contempt or to employ any sanction authorized by law to enforce an order, civil
judgment or decree.
(R.C. § 2901.03)
§ 501.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c) or (d) of this section,
sections of this general offenses code defining offenses or penalties shall be
strictly construed against the municipality and liberally construed in favor of
the accused.
   (b)   Rules of criminal procedure and sections of this general offenses code
providing for criminal procedure shall be construed so as to effect the fair,
impartial, speedy and sure administration of justice.
   (c)   Any provision of a section of this general offenses code that refers
to a previous conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of a section of
this general offenses code, the Ohio Revised Code or a division of a section of
this general offenses code or the Ohio Revised Code shall be construed to also
refer to a previous conviction of or plea of guilty to a substantially
equivalent offense under an existing or former law of this municipality, state,
another state or the United States or under an existing or former municipal
ordinance.
   (d)   Any provision of this code that refers to a section, or to a division
of a section, of this code that defines or specifies a criminal offense shall
be construed to also refer to an existing or former law of this state, another
state or the United States, to an existing or former municipal ordinance, or to
an existing or former division of any such existing or former law or ordinance
that defines or specifies, or that defined or specified, a substantially
equivalent offense.
(R.C. § 2901.04)
§ 501.05 CRIMINAL LAW JURISDICTION.
   (a)   A person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality if any of the following occur:
      (1)   The person commits an offense under the laws of this municipality,
any element of which takes place in this municipality;
      (2)   While in this municipality, the person attempts to commit, or is
guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in another jurisdiction,
which offense is an offense under both the laws of this municipality and the
other jurisdiction, or, while in this municipality, the person conspires to
commit an offense in another jurisdiction, which offense is an offense under
both the laws of this municipality and the other jurisdiction, and a
substantial overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy is undertaken in this
municipality by the person or another person involved in the conspiracy,
subsequent to the person’s entrance into the conspiracy. In any case in which a
person attempts to commit, is guilty of complicity in the commission of, or
conspires to commit an offense in another jurisdiction as described in this
division, the person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality for the attempt, complicity or conspiracy, and for any resulting
offense that is committed or completed in the other jurisdiction;
      (3)   While out of this municipality, the person conspires or attempts to
commit, or is guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in this
municipality;
      (4)   While out of this municipality, the person omits to perform a legal
duty imposed by the laws of this municipality, which omission affects a
legitimate interest of the municipality in protecting, governing or regulating
any person, property, thing, transaction or activity in this municipality;
      (5)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
retains property and subsequently brings any of the unlawfully taken or
retained property into this municipality;
      (6)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
entices another person and subsequently brings the other person into this
municipality;
      (7)   The person, by means of a computer, computer system, computer
network, telecommunication, telecommunications device, telecommunications
service or information service, causes or knowingly permits any writing, data,
image or other telecommunication to be disseminated or transmitted into this
municipality in violation of the law of this state or municipality.
   (b)   In homicide, the element referred to in division (a)(1) of this
section includes the act that causes death, the physical contact that causes
death, the death itself, or any other element that is set forth in the offense
in question. If any part of the body of a homicide victim is found in this
municipality, the death is presumed to have occurred within this municipality.
   (c)   (1)   This municipality includes the land and water within its
boundaries and the air space above that land and water, with respect to which
this municipality has either exclusive or concurrent legislative jurisdiction.
Where the boundary between this municipality and another jurisdiction is
disputed, the disputed territory is conclusively presumed to be within this
municipality for purposes of this section.
      (2)   The Courts of Common Pleas of Adams, Athens, Belmont, Brown,
Clermont, Columbiana, Gallia, Hamilton, Jefferson, Lawrence, Meigs, Monroe,
Scioto and Washington counties have jurisdiction beyond the north or northwest
shore of the Ohio River extending to the opposite shore line, between the
extended boundary lines of any adjacent counties or adjacent state. Each of
those Courts of Common Pleas has concurrent jurisdiction on the Ohio River with
any adjacent Court of Common Pleas that borders on that river and with any
court of Kentucky or of West Virginia that borders on the Ohio River and that
has jurisdiction on the Ohio River under the law of Kentucky or the law of West
Virginia, whichever is applicable, or under federal law.
   (d)   When an offense is committed under the laws of this municipality, and
it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the offense or any element of the
offense took place either in this municipality or in another jurisdiction or
jurisdictions, but it cannot reasonably be determined in which it took place,
the offense or element is conclusively presumed to have taken place in this
municipality for purposes of this section.
   (e)   When a person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in
this municipality for an offense committed or completed outside this
municipality, the person is subject to all specifications for that offense that
would be applicable if the offense had been committed within this municipality.
   (f)   Any act, conduct or element that is a basis of a person being subject
under this section to criminal prosecution and punishment in this municipality
need not be committed personally by the person as long as it is committed by
another person who is in complicity or conspiracy with the person.
   (g)   This section shall be liberally construed, consistent with
constitutional limitations, to allow this municipality the broadest possible
jurisdiction over offenses and persons committing offenses in, or affecting,
this municipality.
   (h)   For purposes of division (a)(2) of this section, an overt act is
substantial when it is of a character that manifests a purpose on the part of
the actor that the object of the conspiracy should be completed.
   (i)   As used in this section, computer, COMPUTER SYSTEM, COMPUTER NETWORK,
INFORMATION SERVICE, TELECOMMUNICATION, TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE, DATA AND WRITING have the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 2913.01.
(R.C. § 2901.11)
§ 501.06 LIMITATION OF CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS.
   (a)   (1)   Except as provided in division (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), or (a)(5)
of this section or as otherwise provided in this section, a prosecution shall
be barred unless it is commenced within the following periods after an offense
is committed:
         A.   For a felony, six years;
         B.   For a misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two years;
         C.   For a minor misdemeanor, six months.
      (2)   There is no period of limitation for the prosecution of a violation
of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 or for the prosecution of a conspiracy to
commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a violation of R.C. §
2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (b) to (j) of this
section, a prosecution of any of the following offenses shall be barred unless
it is commenced within 20 years after the offense is committed:
         A.   A violation of R.C. § 2903.03, § 2903.04, § 2905.01, § 2905.32, §
2907.04, § 2907.05, § 2907.21, § 2909.02, § 2909.22, § 2909.23, § 2909.24, §
2909.26, § 2909.27, § 2909.28, § 2909.29, § 2911.01, § 2911.02, § 2911.11, §
2911.12 or § 2917.02, a violation of R.C. § 2903.11 or § 2903.12 if the victim
is a peace officer, a violation of R.C. § 2903.13 that is a felony, or a
violation of former R.C. § 2907.12.
         B.   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation set forth in division (a)(3)A. of this section.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (d) to (l) of this
section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 or a
conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a
violation of either section shall be barred unless it is commenced within 25
years after the offense is committed.
      (5)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (a)(5)B. and (e) to
(i) of this section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.13 shall be
barred unless it is commenced within five years after the offense is committed.
         B.   Prosecution that would otherwise be barred under division (a)
(5)A. of this section may be commenced within five years after the date of the
discovery of the offense by either an aggrieved person or the aggrieved
person’s legal representative who is not a party to the offense.
         C.   As used in division (a)(5)B. of this section, “aggrieved person”
includes any of the following individuals with regard to a violation of R.C. §
2907.13:
            1.   A patient who was the victim of the violation;
            2.   The spouse or surviving spouse of a patient who was the victim
of the violation;
            3.   Any child born as a result of the violation.
   (b)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(2) of this section,
if the period of limitation provided in division (a)(1) or (a)(3) of this
section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for an offense of which an
element is fraud or breach of fiduciary duty within one year after discovery of
the offense either by an aggrieved person or by the aggrieved person’s legal
representative who is not a party to the offense.
      (2)   If the period of limitation provided in division (a)(1) or (a)(3)
of this section has expired, prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2913.49
shall be commenced within five years after discovery of the offense either by
an aggrieved person or the aggrieved person’s legal representative who is not a
party to the offense.
   (c)   (1)   If the period of limitation provided in division (a)(1) or (a)
(3) of this section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for the
following offenses during the following specified periods of time:
         A.   For an offense involving misconduct in office by a public servant
at any time while the accused remains a public servant, or within two years
thereafter;
         B.   For an offense by a person who is not a public servant but whose
offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a public servant, at
any time while that public servant remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         A.   OFFENSE IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO THE MISCONDUCT IN OFFICE OF A
PUBLIC SERVANT. The phrase includes but is not limited to a violation of R.C. §
101.71, § 101.91, § 121.61 or § 2921.13, § 102.03(F) or (H), § 2921.02(A), §
2921.43(A) or (B), or § 3517.13(F) or (G), that is directly related to an
offense involving misconduct in office of a public servant, or a violation of
any municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to those Ohio Revised Code
sections listed in this division (c)(2)A.
         B.   PUBLIC SERVANT has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (d)   (1)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal
investigation of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is
determined to match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if
the time of the determination is later than 25 years after the offense is
committed, prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be
commenced within five years after the determination is complete.
      (2)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal investigation
of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is determined to
match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if the time of
the determination is within 25 years after the offense is committed,
prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be commenced
within the longer of 25 years after the offense is committed or five years
after the determination is complete.
      (3)   As used in this division, DNA RECORD has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 109.573.
   (e)   An offense is committed when every element of the offense occurs. In
the case of an offense of which an element is a continuing course of conduct,
the period of limitation does not begin to run until the course of conduct or
the accused’s accountability for it terminates, whichever occurs first.
   (f)   A prosecution is commenced on the date an indictment is returned or an
information filed, or on the date a lawful arrest without a warrant is made, or
on the date a warrant, summons, citation or other process is issued, whichever
occurs first. A prosecution is not commenced by the return of an indictment or
the filing of an information unless reasonable diligence is exercised to issue
and execute process on the same. A prosecution is not commenced upon issuance
of a warrant, summons, citation or other process unless reasonable diligence is
exercised to execute the same.
   (g)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the corpus
delicti remains undiscovered.
   (h)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
accused purposely avoids prosecution. Proof that the accused departed this
municipality or conceals the accused’s identity or whereabouts is prima facie
evidence of the accused’s purpose to avoid prosecution.
   (i)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time a prosecution
against the accused based on the same conduct is pending in this state, even
though the indictment, information or process that commenced the prosecution is
quashed or the proceedings on the indictment, information or process are set
aside or reversed on appeal.
   (j)   The period of limitation for a violation of this Part 6 or Title XXIX
of the Ohio Revised Code that involves a physical or mental wound, injury,
disability or condition of a nature that reasonably indicates abuse or neglect
of a child under 18 years of age or of a child with a developmental disability
or physical impairment under 21 years of age shall not begin to run until
either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The victim of the offense reaches the age of majority.
      (2)   A public children services agency, or a municipal or county peace
officer that is not the parent or guardian of the child, in the county in which
the child resides or in which the abuse or neglect is occurring or has occurred
has been notified that abuse or neglect is known, suspected or believed to have
occurred.
   (k)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (l)   (1)   The amendments to divisions (a) and (d) of this section that
took effect on July 16, 2015, apply to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03
committed on and after July 16, 2015, and apply to a violation of either of
those sections committed prior to July 16, 2015, if prosecution for that
violation was not barred under this section as it existed on July 16, 2015.
      (2)   The amendment to division (a)(2) of this section that took effect
on April 4, 2023, applies to a conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or
complicity in committing a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 if the
conspiracy, attempt, or complicity is committed on or after April 4, 2023, and
applies to a conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation of either of those sections if the conspiracy, attempt,
or complicity was committed prior to April 4, 2023, and prosecution for that
conspiracy, attempt, or complicity was not barred under this section as it
existed on the day prior to April 4, 2023.
(R.C. § 2901.13)
§ 501.07 REQUIREMENTS FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY; VOLUNTARY INTOXICATION.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this section, a person is not
guilty of an offense unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person’s liability is based on conduct that includes either a
voluntary act, or an omission to perform an act or duty that the person is
capable of performing;
      (2)   The person has the requisite degree of culpability for each element
as to which a culpable mental state is specified by the language defining the
offense.
   (b)   When the language defining an offense does not specify any degree of
culpability, and plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict criminal
liability for the conduct described in the section, then culpability is not
required for a person to be guilty of the offense. The fact that one division
of a section plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict liability for an
offense defined in that division does not by itself plainly indicate a purpose
to impose strict criminal liability for an offense defined in other divisions
of the section that do not specify a degree of culpability.
   (c)   (1)   When language defining an element of an offense that is related
to knowledge or intent or to which mens rea could fairly be applied neither
specifies culpability nor plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability, the element of the offense is established only if a person acts
recklessly.
      (2)   Division (c)(1) of this section does not apply to offenses defined
in R.C. Title XLV.
      (3)   Division (c)(1) of this section does not relieve the prosecution of
the burden of proving the culpable mental state required by any definition
incorporated into the offense.
   (d)   Voluntary intoxication may not be taken into consideration in
determining the existence of a mental state that is an element of a criminal
offense. Voluntary intoxication does not relieve a person of a duty to act if
failure to act constitutes a criminal offense. Evidence that a person was
voluntarily intoxicated may be admissible to show whether or not the person was
physically capable of performing the act with which the person is charged.
   (e)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   CULPABILITY. Purpose, knowledge, recklessness or negligence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.22.
      (2)   INTOXICATION. Includes but is not limited to intoxication resulting
from the ingestion of alcohol, a drug, or alcohol and a drug.
      (3)   INVOLUNTARY ACTS. Reflexes, convulsions, body movements during
unconsciousness or sleep, and body movements that are not otherwise a product
of the actor’s volition are INVOLUNTARY ACTS.
      (4)   POSSESSION. A voluntary act if the possessor knowingly procured or
received the thing possessed, or was aware of the possessor’s control of the
thing possessed for a sufficient time to have ended possession.
(R.C. § 2901.21)
§ 501.08 CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
   (a)   A person acts purposely when it is the person’s specific intention to
cause a certain result, or, when the gist of the offense is a prohibition
against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the offender intends to
accomplish thereby, it is the offender’s specific intention to engage in
conduct of that nature.
   (b)   A person acts knowingly, regardless of purpose, when the person is
aware that the person’s conduct will probably cause a certain result or will
probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of circumstances when
the person is aware that such circumstances probably exist. When knowledge of
the existence of a particular fact is an element of an offense, such knowledge
is established if a person subjectively believes that there is a high
probability of its existence and fails to make inquiry or acts with a conscious
purpose to avoid learning the fact.
   (c)   A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference to the
consequences, the person disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that
the person’s conduct is likely to cause a certain result or is likely to be of
a certain nature. A person is reckless with respect to circumstances when, with
heedless indifference to the consequences, the person disregards a substantial
and unjustifiable risk that such circumstances are likely to exist.
   (d)   A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial lapse from
due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that the person’s
conduct may cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A person is
negligent with respect to circumstances when, because of a substantial lapse
from due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that the
circumstances may exist.
   (e)   When the section defining an offense provides that negligence suffices
to establish an element thereof, then recklessness, knowledge or purpose is
also sufficient culpability for that element. When recklessness suffices to
establish an element of an offense, then knowledge or purpose is also
sufficient culpability for that element. When knowledge suffices to establish
an element of an offense, then purpose is also sufficient culpability for that
element.
(R.C. § 2901.22)
§ 501.09 ATTEMPTS.
   (a)   No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or knowledge is
sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall engage in
conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the offense.
   (b)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was either
factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if that
offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the
actor believed them to be.
   (c)   No person who is convicted of committing a specific offense, of
complicity in the commission of an offense or of conspiracy to commit an
offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to commit the same offense in
violation of this section.
   (d)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor abandoned his or her effort to commit the offense or otherwise prevented
its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit an
offense. An attempt to commit aggravated murder, murder or an offense for which
the maximum penalty is imprisonment for life is a felony of the first degree,
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to commit a drug abuse
offense for which the penalty is determined by the amount or number of unit
doses of the controlled substance involved in the drug abuse offense is an
offense of the same degree as the drug abuse offense attempted would be if that
drug abuse offense had been committed and had involved an amount or number of
unit doses of the controlled substance that is within the next lower range of
controlled substance amounts than was involved in the attempt. An attempt to
commit any other offense is an offense of the next lesser degree than the
offense attempted. In the case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a
violation of R.C. Chapter 3734 that is not specifically classified, an attempt
is a misdemeanor of the first degree if the offense attempted is a felony, and
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the offense attempted is a misdemeanor.
In the case of an attempt to commit a violation of any provision of R.C.
Chapter 3734, other than R.C. § 3734.18, that relates to hazardous wastes, an
attempt is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to
commit a minor misdemeanor, or to engage in conspiracy, is not an offense under
this section.
   (f)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
      (2)   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 2923.02)
§ 501.10 COMPLICITY.
   (a)   No person, acting with the kind of culpability required for the
commission of an offense, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Solicit or procure another to commit the offense;
      (2)   Aid or abet another in committing the offense;
      (3)   Conspire with another to commit the offense in violation of R.C. §
2923.01;
      (4)   Cause an innocent or irresponsible person to commit the offense.
   (b)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that no person with
whom the accused was in complicity has been convicted as a principal offender.
   (c)   No person shall be convicted of complicity under this section unless
an offense is actually committed, but a person may be convicted of complicity
in an attempt to commit an offense in violation of §
501.99.
   (d)   If an alleged accomplice of the defendant testifies against the
defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged with complicity in the
commission of or an attempt to commit an offense, an attempt to commit an
offense, or an offense, the court shall charge the jury in accordance with R.C.
§ 2923.03(D).
   (e)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that,
prior to the commission of or attempt to commit the offense, the actor
terminated his or her complicity, under circumstances manifesting a complete
and voluntary renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of complicity in the
commission of an offense, and shall be prosecuted and punished as if he or she
were a principal offender. A charge of complicity may be stated in terms of
this section, or in terms of the principal offense.
(R.C. § 2923.03)
§ 501.11 ORGANIZATIONAL CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (a)   An organization may be convicted of an offense under any of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The offense is a minor misdemeanor committed by an officer, agent
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (2)   A purpose to impose organizational liability plainly appears in the
section defining the offense, and the offense is committed by an officer, agent
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (3)   The offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty
imposed by law on the organization.
      (4)   If, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, its commission was authorized, requested, commanded,
tolerated or performed by the board of directors, trustees, partners, or by a
high managerial officer, agent or employee acting in behalf of the organization
and within the scope of such a board’s or person’s office or employment.
   (b)   If strict liability is imposed for the commission of an offense, a
purpose to impose organizational liability shall be presumed, unless the
contrary plainly appears.
   (c)   In a prosecution of an organization for an offense other than one for
which strict liability is imposed, it is a defense that the high managerial
officer, agent or employee having supervisory responsibility over the subject
matter of the offense exercised due diligence to prevent its commission. This
defense is not available if it plainly appears inconsistent with the purpose of
the section defining the offense.
   (d)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION means a corporation for profit
or not for profit, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated nonprofit association, estate, trust or other commercial or
legal entity. ORGANIZATION does not include an entity organized as or by a
governmental agency for the execution of a governmental program.
(R.C. § 2901.23)
§ 501.12 PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONDUCT.
   (a)   An officer, agent or employee of an organization, as defined in R.C. §
2901.23, may be prosecuted for an offense committed by the organization, if he
or she acts with the kind of culpability required for the commission of the
offense, and any of the following apply:
      (1)   In the name of the organization or in its behalf, he or she engages
in conduct constituting the offense, or causes another to engage in that
conduct, or tolerates that conduct when it is of a type for which he or she has
direct responsibility;
      (2)   He or she has primary responsibility to discharge a duty imposed on
the organization by law, and the duty is not discharged.
   (b)   When a person is convicted of an offense by reason of this section, he
or she is subject to the same penalty as if he or she had acted in his or her
own behalf.
(R.C. § 2901.24)
§ 501.13 CONFINEMENT COST REIMBURSEMENT.
   (a)   Any person convicted of an offense, other than a minor misdemeanor,
and who, as a consequence thereof, is confined at the expense of the city in
any correctional facility, shall reimburse the city for its expenses incurred
by reason of the confinement including, but not limited to, expenses relating
to the provision of food, clothing, medical care and shelter. The amount of
reimbursement shall be determined by a court pursuant to the provisions of R.C.
§ 2929.15.
   (b)   The Law Director is hereby authorized and directed to institute
appropriate civil actions in the name of the city to recover from the convict
reimbursement for the expenses incurred by the city for his or her confinement
as determined by a court pursuant to the provisions of R.C. § 2929.15.
(Ord. 86-45, passed 4-28-1986)
§ 501.14 ARREST OF PERSON VIOLATING PROBATION OR COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION.
   (a)   During a period of community control, any field officer or probation
officer may arrest the person under a community control sanction without a
warrant and bring the person before the judge or magistrate before whom the
cause was pending. During a period of community control, any peace officer may
arrest the person under a community control sanction without a warrant upon the
written order of the chief probation officer of the probation agency if the
person under a community control sanction is under the supervision of that
probation agency or on the order of an officer of the adult parole authority
created pursuant to R.C. § 5149.02 if the person under a community control
sanction is under the supervision of the authority. During a period of
community control, any peace officer may arrest the person under a community
control sanction on the warrant of the judge or magistrate before whom the
cause was pending. During a period of community control, any peace officer may
arrest the person under a community control sanction without a warrant if the
peace officer has reasonable ground to believe that the person has violated or
is violating any of the following that is a condition of the person’s community
control sanction:
      (1)   A condition that prohibits ownership, possession, or use of a
firearm, deadly weapon, ammunition, or dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   A condition that prohibits the person from being within a specified
structure or geographic area;
      (3)   A condition that confines the person to a residence, facility, or
other structure;
      (4)   A condition that prohibits the person from contacting or
communicating with any specified individual;
      (5)   A condition that prohibits the person from associating with a
specified individual; and
      (6)   A condition as provided in R.C. § 2929.25 (A)(1)(a) or in R.C. §
2929.15(A)(1) or R.C. § 2929.27(A)(8) that requires that the person not ingest
or be injected with a drug of abuse and submit to random drug testing and
requires that the results of the drug test indicate that the person did not
ingest or was not injected with a drug of abuse.
   (b)   Upon making an arrest under this section, the arresting field officer,
probation officer, or peace officer or the department or agency of the
arresting officer promptly shall notify the chief probation officer or the
chief probation officer’s designee that the person has been arrested. Upon
being notified that a peace officer has made an arrest under this section, the
chief probation officer or designee, or another probation officer designated by
the chief probation officer, promptly shall bring the person who was arrested
before the judge or magistrate before whom the cause was pending.
   (c)   Nothing in this section limits the powers of arrest granted to certain
law enforcement officers and citizens under R.C. §§ 2935.03 and 2935.04.
   (d)   A probation officer shall receive the actual and necessary expenses
incurred in the performance of the officer’s duties.
   (e)   As used in this section, RANDOM DRUG TESTING has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 5120.63.
(Ord. 2003-161, passed 12-8-2003)
§ 501.15   SELF DEFENSE; LIMITATIONS ON DUTY TO RETREAT PRIOR TO USING FORCE.
   (a)   As used in this section, RESIDENCE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2901.05.
   (b)   For purposes of any section of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, a person has no duty to retreat before using force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person's residence if that person is in
a place in which the person lawfully has a right to be.
   (c)   A trier of fact shall not consider the possibility of retreat as a
factor in determining whether or not a person who used force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person's residence reasonably believed
that the force was necessary to prevent injury, loss, or risk to life or
safety.
(R.C. § 2901.09)
§ 501.16 MULTIPLE SENTENCES.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this section, R.C. § 2929.14(C)
or § 2971.03(D) or (E), a prison term, jail term or sentence of imprisonment
shall be served concurrently with any other prison term, jail term or sentence
of imprisonment imposed by a court of this municipality, the state, another
state or the United States. Except as provided in division (b)(2) of this
section, a jail term or sentence of imprisonment for misdemeanor shall be
served concurrently with a prison term or sentence of imprisonment for felony
served in a state or federal correctional institution.
   (b)   (1)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall
be served consecutively to any other prison term, jail term or sentence of
imprisonment when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively or when it is imposed for a misdemeanor violation of R.C. §
2907.322, § 2921.34 or § 2923.131. When consecutive sentences are imposed for
misdemeanors under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the
consecutive terms imposed, except that the aggregate term to be served shall
not exceed 18 months.
      (2)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment imposed for a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 4510.14, § 4510.16, § 4510.21 or § 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be served consecutively to
a prison term that is imposed for a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.06, §
2903.08 or § 4511.19 or a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.04 involving the
operation of a motor vehicle by the offender and that is served in a state
correctional institution when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively. When consecutive jail terms or sentences of imprisonment and
prison terms are imposed for one or more misdemeanors and one or more felonies
under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the consecutive
terms imposed, and the offender shall serve all terms imposed for a felony
before serving any term imposed for a misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2929.41)
§ 501.17 SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4510.07 or in any other provision of
the Revised Code, whenever an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of any provision of this code of ordinances that is substantially
equivalent to a provision of the Revised Code, and a court is permitted or
required to suspend a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit for a violation of that provision, a court, in addition to any other
penalties authorized by law, may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privileges for the period
of time the court determines appropriate, but the period of suspension imposed
for the violation of the provision of this code of ordinances shall not exceed
the period of suspension that is permitted or required to be imposed for the
violation of the provision of the Revised Code to which the provision of this
code of ordinances is substantially equivalent.
(R.C. § 4510.05)
§ 501.99 PENALTIES FOR MISDEMEANORS.
   (a)   Considerations in misdemeanor sentencing.
      (1)   A court that sentences an offender for a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or of any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be guided
by the overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing. The overriding purposes
of misdemeanor sentencing are to protect the public from future crime by the
offender and others and to punish the offender. To achieve those purposes, the
sentencing court shall consider the impact of the offense upon the victim and
the need for changing the offender’s behavior, rehabilitating the defender, and
making restitution to the victim of the offense, the public, or the victim and
the public.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation
of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal ordinance
that is subject to division (a)(1) of this section shall be reasonably
calculated to achieve the two overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing set
forth in division (a)(1) of this section, commensurate with and not demeaning
to the seriousness of the offender’s conduct and its impact upon the victim,
and consistent with sentences imposed for similar offenses committed by similar
offenders.
      (3)   A court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor violation of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a
violation of a municipal ordinance that is subject to division (a)(1) of this
section shall not base the sentence upon the race, ethnic background, gender or
religion of the offender.
      (4)   Divisions (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section shall not apply to any
offense that is disposed of by a traffic violations bureau of any court
pursuant to Traffic Rule 13 and shall not apply to any violation of any
provision of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor and that is
disposed of without a court appearance. Divisions (a)(1) to (a)(3) of this
section do not affect any penalties established by the municipality for a
violation of its ordinances that are not substantially equivalent to a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised
Code.
(R.C. § 2929.21)
   (b)   Misdemeanor jail terms.
      (1)   Except as provided in §
533.99 or division (g) of this section or R.C. § 2929.22 or 2929.23 or division
(b)(5) of this section and unless another term is required or authorized
pursuant to law, if the sentencing court imposing a sentence upon an offender
for a misdemeanor elects or is required to impose a jail term on the offender
pursuant to this chapter, the court shall impose a definite jail term that
shall be one of the following:
         A.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than 180 days;
         B.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than 90 days;
         C.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days;
         D.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   A.   A court that sentences an offender to a jail term under
division (b) of this section may permit the offender to serve the sentence in
intermittent confinement or may authorize a limited release of the offender as
provided in division (d)(2) of this section. The court retains jurisdiction
over every offender sentenced to jail to modify the jail sentence imposed at
any time, but the court shall not reduce any mandatory jail term.
         B.   1.   If a prosecutor, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01, has filed a
notice with the court that the prosecutor wants to be notified about a
particular case and if the court is considering modifying the jail sentence of
the offender in that case, the court shall notify the prosecutor that the court
is considering modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case. The
prosecutor may request a hearing regarding the court’s consideration of
modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, and, if the
prosecutor requests a hearing, the court shall notify the eligible offender of
the hearing.
            2.   If the prosecutor requests a hearing regarding the court’s
consideration of modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, the
court shall hold the hearing before considering whether or not to release the
offender from the offender’s jail sentence.
      (3)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under division (b)
of this section and the court assigns the offender to a County Jail that has
established a County Jail Industry Program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30, the
court shall specify, as part of the sentence, whether the offender may be
considered for participation in the program. During the offender’s term in the
County Jail, the court retains jurisdiction to modify its specification
regarding the offender’s participation in the County Jail Industry Program.
      (4)   If a person sentenced to a jail term pursuant to division (b) of
this section, the court may impose as part of the sentence pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 a reimbursement sanction, and, if the local detention facility in which
the term is to be served is covered by a policy adopted pursuant to R.C. §
307.93, § 341.14, § 341.19, § 341.21, § 341.23, § 753.02, § 753.04, § 753.16, §
2301.56 or § 2947.19 and R.C. § 2929.37, both of the following apply:
         A.   The court shall specify both of the following as part of the
sentence:
            1.   If the person is presented with an itemized bill pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.37 for payment of the costs of confinement, the person is required
to pay the bill in accordance with that section.
            2.   If the person does not dispute the bill described in division
(b)(4)A.1. of this section and does not pay the bill by the times specified in
R.C. § 2929.37, the Clerk of the Court may issue a certificate of judgment
against the person as described in that section.
         B.   The sentence automatically includes any certificate of judgment
issued as described in division (b)(4)A.2. of this section.
      (5)   A.   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, § 2907.24, § 2907.241 or § 2907.25, or
any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and to a specification of the
type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 and if the court imposes a jail term on the
offender for the misdemeanor violation, the court may impose upon the offender
an additional definite jail term as follows:
            1.   Subject to division (b)(5)A.2. of this section, an additional
definite jail term of not more than 60 days;
            2.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more misdemeanor or felony violations of R.C. § 2907.22, §
2907.23, § 2907.24, § 2907.241 or § 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and also was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 regarding one or more
of those violations, an additional definite jail term of not more than 120
days.
         B.   In lieu of imposing an additional definite jail term under
division (b)(5)A. of this section, the court may directly impose on the
offender a sanction that requires the offender to wear a real-time processing,
continual tracking electronic monitoring device during the period of time
specified by the court. The period of time specified by the court shall equal
the duration of an additional jail term that the court could have imposed upon
the offender under division (b)(5)A. of this section. A sanction imposed under
this division shall commence on the date specified by the court, provided that
the sanction shall not commence until after the offender has served the jail
term imposed for the misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, § 2907.24, §
2907.241 or § 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
any residential sanction imposed for the violation under division (d) of this
section or R.C. § 2929.26. A sanction imposed under this division shall be
considered to be a community control sanction for purposes of division (c) of
this section or R.C. § 2929.25, and all provisions of this code and the Ohio
Revised Code that pertain to community control sanctions shall apply to a
sanction imposed under this division, except to the extent that they would by
their nature be clearly inapplicable. The offender shall pay all costs
associated with a sanction imposed under this division, including the cost of
the use of the monitoring device.
      (6)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1423 that charges that the
victim of the violation was a woman whom the offender knew was pregnant at the
time of the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory jail
term that is a definite term of at least 30 days.
      (7)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this division
(b), the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender and the jail
term. Upon motion of either party or upon the court’s own motion, the court, in
the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may substitute
one or more community control sanctions under division (d) or (e) of this
section for any jail days that are not mandatory jail days.
(R.C. § 2929.24)
   (c)   Misdemeanor community control sanctions.
      (1)   A.   Except as provided in §§
533.99 and division (g) of this section or R.C. §§ 2929.22 and 2929.23 or when
a jail term is required by law, in sentencing an offender for a misdemeanor,
other than a minor misdemeanor, the sentencing court may do either of the
following:
            1.   Directly impose a sentence that consists of one or more
community control sanctions authorized by divisions (d), (e) or (f) of this
section. The court may impose any other conditions of release under a community
control sanction that the court considers appropriate. If the court imposes a
jail term upon the offender, the court may impose any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions in addition to the jail
term.
            2.   Impose a jail term under division (b) of this section from the
range of jail terms authorized under that division for the offense, suspend all
or a portion of the jail term imposed, and place the offender under a community
control sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
divisions (d), (e) or (f) of this section.
         B.   The duration of all community control sanctions imposed upon an
offender and in effect for an offender at any time shall not exceed five years.
         C.   At sentencing, if a court directly imposes a community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (c)
(1)A.1. of this section, the court shall state the duration of the community
control sanctions imposed and shall notify the offender that if any of the
conditions of the community control sanctions are violated the court may do any
of the following:
            1.   Impose a longer time under the same community control sanction
if the total time under all of the offender’s community control sanctions does
not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (c)(1)B. of this section;
            2.   Impose a more restrictive community control sanction under
division (d), (e) or (f) of this section, but the court is not required to
impose any particular sanction or sanctions;
            3.   Impose a definite jail term from the range of jail terms
authorized for the offense under division (b) of this section.
      (2)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control sanction
or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (c)(1)A.1.
of this section, the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender
and the period of community control for the duration of the period of community
control. Upon the motion of either party or on the court’s own motion, the
court, in the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may
modify the community control sanctions or conditions of release previously
imposed, substitute a community control sanction or condition of release for
another community control sanction or condition of release previously imposed,
or impose an additional community control sanction or condition of release.
      (3)   A.   If a court sentences an offender to any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
division (d), (e) or (f) of this section, the court shall place the offender
under the general control and supervision of the court or of a Department of
Probation in the jurisdiction that serves the court for purposes of reporting
to the court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. If
the offender resides in another jurisdiction and a department of probation has
been established to serve the Municipal Court or County Court in that
jurisdiction, the sentencing court may request the Municipal Court or the
county court to receive the offender into the general control and supervision
of that department of probation for purposes of reporting to the sentencing
court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. The
sentencing court retains jurisdiction over any offender whom it sentences for
the duration of the sanction or sanctions imposed.
         B.   The sentencing court shall require as a condition of any
community control sanction that the offender abide by the law and not leave the
state without the permission of the court or the offender’s probation officer.
In the interests of doing justice, rehabilitating the offender, and ensuring
the offender’s good behavior, the court may impose additional requirements on
the offender. The offender’s compliance with the additional requirements also
shall be a condition of the community control sanction imposed upon the
offender.
      (4)   A.   If the court imposing sentence upon an offender sentences the
offender to any community control sanction or combination of community control
sanctions authorized under division (d), (e) or (f) of this section, and the
offender violates any of the conditions of the sanctions, the public or private
person or entity that supervises or administers the program or activity that
comprises the sanction shall report the violation directly to the sentencing
court or to the Department of Probation or probation officer with general
control and supervision over the offender. If the public or private person or
entity reports the violation to the Department of Probation or probation
officer, the department or officer shall report the violation to the sentencing
court.
         B.   Except as provided in division (c)(4)C. of this section, if an
offender violates any condition of a community control sanction, the sentencing
court may impose upon the violator one or more of the following penalties:
            1.   A longer time under the same community control sanction if the
total time under all of the community control sanctions imposed on the violator
does not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (c)(1)B. of this
section;
            2.   A more restrictive community control sanction; or
            3.   A combination of community control sanctions, including a jail
term.
         C.   If an offender was acting pursuant to R.C. § 2925.11(B)(2)(b), or
any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a related provision under
R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14, or R.C. § 2925.141, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and in so doing violated the conditions of a
community control sanction based on a minor drug possession offense, as defined
in R.C. § 2925.11, or violated R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. §
2925.141, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the sentencing
court shall not impose any of the penalties described in division (c)(4)B. of
this section based on the violation.
         D.   If the court imposes a jail term upon a violator pursuant to
division (c)(4)B. of this section, the total time spent in jail for the
misdemeanor offense and the violation of a condition of the community control
sanction shall not exceed the maximum jail term available for the offense for
which the sanction that was violated was imposed. The court may reduce the
longer period of time that the violator is required to spend under the longer
sanction or the more restrictive sanction imposed under division (c)(4)B. of
this section by all or part of the time the violator successfully spent under
the sanction that was initially imposed.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if an offender, for
a significant period of time, fulfills the conditions of a community control
sanction imposed pursuant to division (d), (e) or (f) of this section in an
exemplary manner, the court may reduce the period of time under the community
control sanction or impose a less restrictive community control sanction.
Fulfilling the conditions of a community control sanction does not relieve the
offender of a duty to make restitution under division (f) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.25)
   (d)   Community residential sanction.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any community residential sanction or combination of
community residential sanctions under this division (d). Community residential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         A.   A term of up to 180 days in a halfway house or a term in a
halfway house not to exceed the longest jail term available for the offense,
whichever is shorter, if the political subdivision that would have
responsibility for paying the costs of confining the offender in a jail has
entered into a contract with the halfway house for use of the facility for
misdemeanor offenders;
         B.   If the offender is an eligible offender, as defined in R.C. §
307.932, a term in a community alternative sentencing center or district
community alternative sentencing center established and operated in accordance
with that section, in the circumstances specified in that section, with one of
the conditions of the sanction being that the offender successfully complete
the portion of the sentence to be served in the center.
      (2)   A sentence to a community residential sanction under division (d)
(1)B. of this section shall be in accordance with R.C. § 307.932. In all other
cases, the court that sentences an offender to a community residential sanction
under this division (d) may do either or both of the following:
         A.   Permit the offender to serve the offender’s sentence in
intermittent confinement, overnight, on weekends or at any other time or times
that will allow the offender to continue at the offender’s occupation or care
for the offender’s family;
         B.   Authorize the offender to be released so that the offender may
seek or maintain employment, receive education or training, receive treatment,
perform community service, or otherwise fulfill an obligation imposed by law or
by the court. A release pursuant to this division shall be only for the
duration of time that is needed to fulfill the purpose of the release and for
travel that reasonably is necessary to fulfill the purposes of release.
      (3)   The court may order that a reasonable portion of the income earned
by the offender upon a release pursuant to division (d)(2) of this section be
applied to any financial sanction imposed under division (f) of this section.
      (4)   No court shall sentence any person to a prison term for a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor or to a jail term for a minor misdemeanor.
      (5)   If a court sentences a person who has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor to a community residential sanction as described in
division (d)(1) of this section, at the time of reception and at other times
the person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction determines to be appropriate, the person in charge of the operation of
the halfway house, community alternative sentencing center, district community
alternative sentencing center, or other place may cause the convicted offender
to be examined and tested for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis,
including, but not limited to, hepatitis A, B and C, and other contagious
diseases. The person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction may cause a convicted offender in the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place who refuses to be tested or treated for tuberculosis,
HIV infection, hepatitis, including, but not limited to, hepatitis A, B and C,
or another contagious disease to be tested and treated involuntarily.
      (6)   The municipality may enter into a contract with a halfway house for
use of the halfway house to house misdemeanor offenders under a sanction
imposed under division (d)(1)A. of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.26)
   (e)   Nonresidential sanction where jail term is not mandatory.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any nonresidential sanction or combination of
nonresidential sanctions authorized under this division. Nonresidential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         A.   A term of day reporting;
         B.   A term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous
alcohol monitoring or both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring, a term of electronic monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring
without house arrest, or a term of house arrest without electronic monitoring
or continuous alcohol monitoring;
         C.   A term of community service of up to 500 hours for misdemeanor of
the first degree or 200 hours for a misdemeanor of the second, third or fourth
degree;
         D.   A term in a drug treatment program with a level of security for
the offender as determined necessary by the court;
         E.   A term of intensive probation supervision;
         F.   A term of basic probation supervision;
         G.   A term of monitored time;
         H.   A term of drug and alcohol use monitoring, including random drug
testing;
         I.   A curfew term;
         J.   A requirement that the offender obtain employment;
         K.   A requirement that the offender obtain education or training;
         L.   Provided the court obtains the prior approval of the victim, a
requirement that the offender participate in victim-offender mediation;
         M.   If authorized by law, suspension of the offender’s privilege to
operate a motor vehicle, immobilization or forfeiture of the offender’s motor
vehicle, a requirement that the offender obtain a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, or any other related sanction;
         N.   A requirement that the offender obtain counseling if the offense
is a violation of R.C. § 2919.25 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance or a violation of R.C. § 2903.13 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance involving a person who was a family or household member at
the time of the violation, if the offender committed the offense in the
vicinity of one or more children who are not victims of the offense, and if the
offender or the victim of the offense is a parent, guardian, custodian or
person in loco parentis of one or more of those children. This division does
not limit the court in requiring that the offender obtain counseling for any
offense or in any circumstance not specified in this division.
      (2)   If the court imposes a term of community service pursuant to
division (e)(1)C. of this section, the offender may request that the court
modify the sentence to authorize the offender to make a reasonable
contribution, as determined by the court, to the general fund of the county,
municipality, or other local entity that provides funding to the court. The
court may grant the request if the offender demonstrates a change in
circumstances from the date the court imposes the sentence or that the
modification would otherwise be in the interests of justice. If the court
grants the request, the offender shall make a reasonable contribution to the
court, and the clerk of the court shall deposit that contribution into the
general fund of the county, municipality, or other local entity that provides
funding to the court. If more than one entity provides funding to the court,
the clerk shall deposit a percentage of the reasonable contribution equal to
the percentage of funding the entity provides to the court in that entity’s
general fund.
      (3)   In addition to the sanctions authorized under division (e)(1) of
this section, the court imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, upon an offender who is not required to serve a mandatory
jail term may impose any other sanction that is intended to discourage the
offender or other persons from committing a similar offense if the sanction is
reasonably related to the overriding purposes and principles of misdemeanor
sentencing.
      (4)   The court imposing a sentence for a minor misdemeanor may impose a
term of community service in lieu of all or part of a fine. The term of
community service imposed for a minor misdemeanor shall not exceed 30 hours.
After imposing a term of community service, the court may modify the sentence
to authorize a reasonable contribution, as determined by the court, to the
appropriate general fund as provided in division (e)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.27)
   (f)   Financial sanctions.
      (1)   In addition to imposing court costs pursuant to R.C. § 2947.23, the
court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor, including a minor
misdemeanor, may sentence the offender to any financial sanction or combination
of financial sanctions authorized under this division (f) and, if the offender
is being sentenced for a criminal offense as defined in R.C. § 2930.01, shall
sentence the offender to make restitution pursuant to this division (f) and
R.C. § 2929.281. If the court, in its discretion or as required by this
division (f), imposes one or more financial sanctions, the financial sanctions
that may be imposed pursuant to this division (f) include, but are not limited
to, the following:
         A.   Restitution.
            1.   Unless the misdemeanor offense could be disposed of by the
traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic Rule 13, restitution
by the offender to the victim of the offender’s crime or the victim’s estate,
in an amount based on the victim's economic loss. The court may not impose
restitution as a sanction pursuant to this division if the offense could be
disposed of by the traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic
Rule 13. If the court requires restitution, the court shall order that the
restitution be made to the victim in open court or to the adult probation
department that serves the jurisdiction or the clerk of the court on behalf of
the victim.
            2.   The court shall determine the amount of restitution to be paid
by the offender. The victim, victim’s representative, victim’s attorney, if
applicable, the prosecutor or the prosecutor’s designee, and the offender may
provide information relevant to the determination of the amount of restitution.
The amount the court orders as restitution shall not exceed the amount of the
economic loss suffered by the victim as a direct and proximate result of the
commission of the offense. If the court imposes restitution for the cost of
accounting or auditing done to determine the extent of economic loss, the court
may order restitution for any amount of the victim’s costs of accounting or
auditing provided that the amount of restitution is reasonable and does not
exceed the value of property or services stolen or damaged as a result of the
offense. If the court decides to or is required to impose restitution, the
court shall hold an evidentiary hearing on restitution if the offender, victim,
victim’s representative, victim’s attorney, if applicable, or victim’s estate
disputes the amount of restitution. The court shall determine the amount of
full restitution by a preponderance of the evidence.
            3.   All restitution payments shall be credited against any
recovery of economic loss in a civil action brought by the victim or the
victim’s estate against the offender. No person may introduce evidence of an
award of restitution under this division (f) in a civil action for purposes of
imposing liability against an insurer under R.C. § 3937.18.
            4.   The court may order that the offender pay a surcharge, of not
more than 5% of the amount of the restitution otherwise ordered, to the entity
responsible for collecting and processing restitution payments.
            5.   The victim, victim’s attorney, if applicable, or the attorney
for the victim’s estate may request that the prosecutor in the case file a
motion, or the offender may file a motion, for modification of the payment
terms of any restitution ordered. If the court grants the motion, it may modify
the payment terms as it determines appropriate but shall not reduce the amount
of restitution ordered, except as provided in R.C. § 2929.281(A).
         B.   Fines. A fine of the type described in divisions (f)(1)B.1. and
(f)(1)B.2. of this section payable to the appropriate entity as required by
law:
            1.   A fine in the following amount:
               a.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than
$1,000;
               b.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $750;
               c.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $500;
               d.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $250;
               e.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $150.
            2.   A state fine or cost as defined in R.C. § 2949.111.
         C.   Reimbursement.
            1.   Reimbursement by the offender of any or all of the costs of
sanctions incurred by the government, including, but not limited to, the
following:
               a.   All or part of the costs of implementing any community
control sanction, including a supervision fee under R.C. § 2951.021 and the
costs of global positioning system device monitoring;
               b.   All or part of the costs of confinement in a jail or other
residential facility, including but not limited to a per diem fee for room and
board, the costs of medical and dental treatment, and the costs of repairing
property damaged by the offender while confined;
               c.   All or part of the cost of purchasing and using an
immobilizing or disabling device, including a certified ignition interlock
device, or a remote alcohol monitoring device that a court orders an offender
to use under R.C. § 4510.13.
            2.   The amount of reimbursement under division (f)(1)C.1. of this
section shall not exceed the total amount of reimbursement the offender is able
to pay and shall not exceed the actual cost of the sanctions. The court may
collect any amount of reimbursement the offender is required to pay under that
division. If the court does not order reimbursement under that division,
confinement costs may be assessed pursuant to a repayment policy adopted under
R.C. § 2929.37. In addition, the offender may be required to pay the fees
specified in R.C. § 2929.38 in accordance with that section.
      (2)   A.   If the court determines a hearing is necessary, the court may
hold a hearing to determine whether the offender is able to pay the financial
sanction imposed pursuant to this division (f) or court costs or is likely in
the future to be able to pay the sanction or costs.
         B.   If the court determines that the offender is indigent and unable
to pay the financial sanction or court costs, the court shall consider imposing
and may impose a term of community service under division (e)(1) of this
section in lieu of imposing a financial sanction or court costs. If the court
does not determine that the offender is indigent, the court may impose a term
of community service under division (e)(1) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this division (f) and in
addition to imposing court costs. The court may order community service for a
minor misdemeanor pursuant to division (e)(4) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this section and in addition to
imposing court costs. If a person fails to pay a financial sanction or court
costs, the court may order community service in lieu of the financial sanction
or court costs.
      (3)   A.   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the
offender pursuant to division (f)(1)C. of this section to pay the costs
incurred by a county pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (d), (e)
or (f) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (d) of this section to the County
Treasurer. The County Treasurer shall deposit the reimbursements in the
county’s General Fund. The county shall use the amounts deposited in the Fund
to pay the costs incurred by the county pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (d), (e) or (f) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (d) of this
section.
         B.   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the offender
pursuant to division (f)(1)C. of this section to pay the costs incurred by a
municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (d), (e)
or (f) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (d) of this section to the
Treasurer of the municipal corporation. The Treasurer shall deposit the
reimbursements in the municipal corporation’s General Fund. The municipal
corporation shall use the amounts deposited in the Fund to pay the costs
incurred by the municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (d), (e) or (f) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (d) of this
section.
         C.   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed pursuant to
division (f)(1)C. of this section for the costs incurred by a private provider
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (d), (e) or (f) of this section
to the provider.
      (4)   A.   In addition to any other fine that is or may be imposed under
this section, the court imposing sentence upon an offender for misdemeanor
domestic violence or menacing by stalking may impose a fine of not less than
$70 nor more than $500, which shall, except as provided in divisions (f)(4)B.
and (f)(4)C. of this section, be transmitted to the Treasurer of Ohio to be
credited to the address confidentiality program fund created by R.C. § 111.48.
         B.   A court that imposes a fine under division (f)(4)A. of this
section may retain up to 25% of amounts collected in satisfaction of the fine
to cover administrative costs.
         C.   A court that imposes a fine under division (f)(4)A. of this
section may assign up to 25% of amounts collected in satisfaction of the fine
to reimburse the prosecuting attorney for costs associated with prosecution of
the offense.
      (5)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this division (f)(5), a
financial sanction imposed under division (f)(1) of this section is a judgment
in favor of the state or the political subdivision that operates the court that
imposed the financial sanction, and the offender subject to the financial
sanction is the judgment debtor. A financial sanction of reimbursement imposed
pursuant to division (f)(1)C.1.a. of this section upon an offender is a
judgment in favor of the entity administering the community control sanction,
and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the judgment debtor. A
financial sanction of reimbursement imposed pursuant to division (f)(1)C.1.b.
of this section upon an offender confined in a jail or other residential
facility is a judgment in favor of the entity operating the jail or other
residential facility, and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the
judgment debtor. A financial sanction of restitution imposed pursuant to
division (f)(1)A. of this section is an order in favor of the victim of the
offender’s criminal act that can be collected through a certificate of judgment
as described in division (f)(5)B.1. of this section, through execution as
described in division (f)(5)B.2. of this section or through an order as
described in division (f)(5)B.3. of this section and the offender shall be
considered for purposes of the collection as a judgment debtor.
         B.   Once a financial sanction is imposed as a judgment or order under
this division, the victim, private provider, state or political subdivision may
do any of the following:
            1.   Obtain from the clerk of the court in which the judgment was
entered, at no charge, a certificate of judgment that shall be in the same
manner and form as a certificate of judgment issued in a civil action;
            2.   Obtain execution of the judgment or order through any
available procedure, including any of the procedures identified in R.C. §
2929.18(D)(1) and (D)(2) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
            3.   Obtain an order for the assignment of wages of the judgment
debtor under R.C. § 1321.33 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (6)   The civil remedies authorized under division (f)(5) of this section
for the collection of the financial sanction supplement, but do not preclude,
enforcement of the criminal sentence.
      (7)   Each court imposing a financial sanction upon an offender under
this division (f) may designate the Clerk of the Court or another person to
collect the financial sanction. The Clerk, or another person authorized by law
or the court to collect the financial sanction may do the following:
         A.   Enter into contracts with one or more public agencies or private
vendors for the collection of amounts due under the sanction. Before entering
into a contract for the collection of amounts due from an offender pursuant to
any financial sanction imposed pursuant to this division (f), a court shall
comply with R.C. §§ 307.86 to 307.92.
         B.   Permit payment of all or any portion of the sanction in
installments, by financial transaction device if the court is a county court or
a municipal court operated by a county, or by any other reasonable method, in
any time, and on any terms that the court considers just. If the court is a
county court or a municipal court operated by a county, the acceptance of
payments by any financial transaction device shall be governed by the policy
adopted by the Board of County Commissioners of the county pursuant to R.C. §
301.28. If the court is a municipal court not operated by a county, the Clerk
may pay any fee associated with processing an electronic transfer out of public
money or may charge the fee to the offender.
         C.   To defray administrative costs, charge a reasonable fee to an
offender who elects a payment plan rather than a lump sum payment of any
financial sanction.
      (8)   No financial sanction imposed under this division (f) shall
preclude a victim from bringing a civil action against the offender.
      (9)   If the court imposes restitution, fines, fees, or incarceration
costs on a business or corporation, it is the duty of the person authorized to
make disbursements from assets of the business or corporation to pay the
restitution, fines, fees, or incarceration costs from those assets.
(R.C. § 2929.28)
   (g)   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor.
      (1)   A.   Unless a mandatory jail term is required to be imposed by R.C.
§ 1547.99(G), § 4510.14(B) or § 4511.19(G), or any other provision of the
Revised Code, or any municipal ordinance, a court that imposes a sentence under
this chapter upon an offender for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor has
discretion to determine the most effective way to achieve the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in this section.
         B.   Unless a specific sanction is required to be imposed or is
precluded from being imposed by the section setting forth an offense or the
penalty for an offense or by any provision of §
533.99 or §
501.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.23 to 2929.28, a court that imposes a
sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor may impose on the offender any
sanction or combination of sanctions under §
501.99(b) to (f). The court shall not impose a sentence that imposes an
unnecessary burden on local government resources.
      (2)   A.   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, the
court shall consider all of the following factors:
            1.   The nature and circumstances of the offense or offenses;
            2.   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the
offense or offenses indicate that the offender has a history of persistent
criminal activity and that the offender’s character and condition reveal a
substantial risk that the offender will commit another offense;
            3.   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the
offense or offenses indicate that the offender’s history, character and
condition reveal a substantial risk that the offender will be a danger to
others and that the offender’s conduct has been characterized by a pattern of
repetitive, compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences;
            4.   Whether the victim’s youth, age, disability or other factor
made the victim particularly vulnerable to the offense or made the impact of
the offense more serious;
            5.   Whether the offender is likely to commit future crimes in
general, in addition to the circumstances described in divisions (b)(1)B. and
(b)(1)C. of this section;
            6.   Whether the offender has an emotional, mental, or physical
condition that is traceable to the offender’s service in the armed forces of
the United States and that was a contributing factor in the offender’s
commission of the offense or offenses;
            7.   The offender’s military service record.
         B.   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, in
addition to complying with division (b)(1) of this section, the court may
consider any other factors that are relevant to achieving the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in division (a).
      (3)   Before imposing a jail term as a sentence for a misdemeanor, a
court shall consider the appropriateness of imposing a community control
sanction or a combination of community control sanctions under divisions (c),
(d), (e), and (f) of this section. A court may impose the longest jail term
authorized under division (b) of this section only upon offenders who commit
the worst forms of the offense or upon offenders whose conduct and response to
prior sanctions for prior offenses demonstrate that the imposition of the
longest jail term is necessary to deter the offender from committing a future
criminal offense.
      (4)   A.   A sentencing court shall consider any relevant oral and
written statement made by the victim, the victim’s representative, the victim’s
attorney, if applicable, the defendant, the defense attorney, and the
prosecuting authority regarding sentencing for a misdemeanor. This division
does not create any rights to notice other than those rights authorized by R.C.
Chapter 2930.
         B.   At the time of sentencing for a misdemeanor or as soon as
possible after sentencing, the court shall notify the victim of the offense of
the victim’s right to file an application for an award of reparations pursuant
to R.C. §§ 2743.51 to 2743.72.
(R.C. § 2929.22)
   (h)   Organizational penalties.
      (1)   Regardless of the other penalties provided in this section, an
organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
501.11 shall be fined by the court as follows:
         A.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than $5,000;
         B.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $4,000;
         C.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $3,000;
         D.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $2,000;
         E.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $1,000;
         F.   For a misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
$2,000; and
         G.   For a minor misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more
than $1,000.
      (2)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty plainly indicates a
purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon organizations, then
that penalty shall be imposed in lieu of the penalty provided in this section.
      (3)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than that provided
in this section, then the penalty imposed shall be pursuant to the penalty
provided for violation of the section defining the offense.
      (4)   This section does not prevent the imposition of available civil
sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
501.11, either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2929.31)
   (i)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   DANGEROUS OFFENDER. A person who has committed an offense, whose
history, character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will
be a danger to others, and whose conduct has been characterized by a pattern of
repetitive, compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences.
      (2)   REPEAT OFFENDER. A person who has a history of persistent criminal
activity and whose character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or
she will commit another offense. It is prima facie evidence that a person is a
REPEAT OFFENDER if any of the following applies:
         A.   Having been convicted of one or more offenses of violence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, the person commits a subsequent offense of
violence;
         B.   Having been convicted of one or more sexually oriented offenses,
as defined in R.C. § 2950.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence
for one or more of those offenses, the person commits a subsequent sexually
oriented offense;
         C.   Having been convicted of one or more theft offenses, as defined
in R.C. § 2913.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for one or
more of those offenses, the person commits a subsequent theft offense;
         D.   Having been convicted of one or more felony drug abuse offenses,
as defined in R.C. § 2925.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence
for one or more of those offenses, the person commits a subsequent felony drug
abuse offense;
         E.   Having been convicted of two or more felonies, and having been
imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such offense, the person commits a
subsequent offense;
         F.   Having been convicted of three or more offenses of any type or
degree other than traffic offenses, alcoholic intoxication offenses, or minor
misdemeanors, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such
offense, the person commits a subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 2935.36(E))
CHAPTER 505: ANIMALS AND FOWL
Section
505.01   Dogs, cats and other animals running at large; nuisance, dangerous and
vicious dogs; hearings
505.02   Impounding and disposition; records
505.03   Registration of dogs required
505.04   Abandoning animals
505.05   Killing or injuring animals
505.06   Poisoning animals
505.07   Cruelty to animals; cruelty to companion animals
505.08   Nuisance conditions prohibited
505.09   Barking or howling dogs
505.10   Animal bites; reports and quarantine
505.11   Hunting prohibited (Repealed)
505.12   Coloring rabbits and baby poultry; sale or display of poultry
505.13   Rabies; muzzling and vaccination
505.14   City Animal Warden
505.15   Teasing or striking dogs used by Police Department
505.16   Injuring or killing dogs used by the Police Department
505.17   Reserved
505.18   Dangerous and vicious dogs
505.19   Animal waste removal
505.20   Hindering capture of unregistered dog
505.21   Dogs required to wear tags
505.22   Unlawful tags
505.23   Rabies; quarantine
505.24   Restrictions on dog ownership for certain convicted felons
505.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Discharging firearms prohibited, see §
549.08
Statutory reference:
   Dog registration, see R.C. § 955.01
   Owner or keeper liable for damages, see R.C. § 951.10
   Possession of dangerous wild animals and restricted snakes, requirements and
licensing, see R.C. Chapter 935
§ 505.01 DOGS, CATS AND OTHER ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE; NUISANCE, DANGEROUS AND
VICIOUS DOGS; HEARINGS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   DANGEROUS DOG.
         A.   A dog that, without provocation, and subject to division B. of
this definition, has done any of the following:
            1.   Caused injury, other than killing or serious injury, to any
person;
            2.   Killed another dog;
            3.   Been the subject of a third or subsequent violation of R.C. §
955.22(C) or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         B.   DANGEROUS DOG does not include a police dog that has caused
injury, other than killing or serious injury, to any person or  has killed
another dog while the police dog is being used to assist one or more law
enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
      (2)   MENACING FASHION. A dog that would cause any person being chased or
approached to reasonably believe that the dog will cause physical injury to
that person.
      (3)   NUISANCE DOG.
         A.   Subject to division B. of this definition, NUISANCE DOG means a
dog that without provocation and while off the premises of its owner, keeper,
or harborer has chased or approached a person in either a menacing fashion or
an apparent attitude of attack or has attempted to bite or otherwise endanger
any person.
         B.   NUISANCE DOG does not include a police dog that, while being used
to assist one or more law enforcement officers in the performance of official
duties, has chased or approached a person in either a menacing fashion or an
apparent attitude of attack or has attempted to bite or otherwise endanger any
person.
      (4)   POLICE DOG. A dog that has been trained and may be used to assist
one or more law enforcement officers in the performance of their official
duties.
      (5)   SERIOUS INJURY. Any of the following:
         A.   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
         B.   Any physical harm that involves a permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or a temporary, substantial incapacity;
         C.   Any physical harm that involves a permanent disfigurement or a
temporary, serious disfigurement;
         D.   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering or any degree of prolonged or intractable
pain.
      (6)   VICIOUS DOG.
         A.   A dog that, without provocation and subject to division B. of
this definition, has killed or caused serious injury to any person.
         B.   VICIOUS DOG does not include either of the following:
            1.   A police dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any
person while the police dog is being used to assist one or more law enforcement
officers in the performance of their official duties;
            2.   A dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any person
while a person was committing or attempting to commit a trespass or other
criminal offense on the property of the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog.
      (7)   WITHOUT PROVOCATION. A dog acts WITHOUT PROVOCATION when it was not
teased, tormented or abused by a person, or it was not coming to the aid or the
defense of a person who was not engaged in illegal or criminal activity and who
was not using the dog as a means of carrying out the activity.
(R.C. § 955.11(A))
   (b)   No person, who is the owner or keeper of horses, mules, cattle, bison,
sheep, goats, swine, llamas, alpacas, geese or cats, shall permit them to run
at large in the public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon
unenclosed land, or cause the animals to be herded, kept, or detained for the
purpose of grazing on premises other than those owned or lawfully occupied by
the owner or keeper of the animals.
   (c)   No owner, keeper or harborer of any female dog shall permit it to go
beyond the premises of the owner, keeper or harborer at any time the dog is in
heat unless the dog is properly in leash.
   (d)   Except when a dog is lawfully engaged in hunting and accompanied by
the owner, keeper, harborer, or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper or
harborer of any dog shall fail at any time to do either of the following:
      (1)   Keep the dog physically confined or restrained upon the premises of
the owner, keeper or harborer by a leash, tether, adequate fence, supervision
or secure enclosure to prevent escape; and/or
      (2)   Keep the dog under the reasonable control of some person.
   (e)   Except when a dangerous dog is lawfully engaged in hunting or training
for the purpose of hunting and is accompanied by the owner, keeper, harborer,
or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper or harborer of a dangerous dog shall
fail to do either of the following:
      (1)   While the dog is on the premises of the owner, keeper or harborer,
securely confine it at all times in a locked pen that has a top.
      (2)   While the dog is off the premises of the owner, keeper or harborer,
keep that dog on a chain-link leash or tether that is not more than six feet in
length and additionally do at least one of the following: keep the dog in a
locked pen that has a top, locked fenced yard or other locked enclosure that
has a top; have the leash or tether controlled by a person who is of suitable
age and discretion or securely attach, tie or affix the leash or tether to the
ground or a stationary object or fixture so that the dog is adequately
restrained and station a person in close enough proximity to that dog so as to
prevent it from causing injury to any person; or muzzle that dog.
   (f)   No person who has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of division (d) of this section involving the same dog and no owner,
keeper, or harborer of a dangerous dog shall fail to do the following:
      (1)   Obtain liability insurance with an insurer authorized to write
liability insurance in this state providing coverage in each occurrence because
of damage or bodily injury to or death of a person caused by the dangerous dog
if so ordered by a court and provide proof of that liability insurance upon
request to any law enforcement officer, county dog warden, or public health
official charged with enforcing this section;
      (2)   Obtain a dangerous dog registration certificate from the County
Auditor pursuant to division (j) of this section, affix a tag that identifies
the dog as a dangerous dog to the dog’s collar, and ensure that the dog wears
the collar and tag at all times;
      (3)   Notify the local dog warden immediately if any of the following
occurs:
         A.   The dog is loose or unconfined.
         B.   The dog bites a person, unless the dog is on the property of the
owner of the dog, and the person who is bitten is unlawfully trespassing or
committing a criminal act within the boundaries of that property.
         C.   The dog attacks another animal while the dog is off the property
of the owner of the dog.
      (4)   If the dog is sold, given to another person, or dies, notify the
County Auditor within ten days of the sale, transfer, or death.
   (g)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Debark or surgically silence a dog that the person knows or has
reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
      (2)   Possess a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason to
believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced; and/or
      (3)   Falsely attest on a waiver form provided by the veterinarian under
division (h) of this section that the person’s dog is not a dangerous dog or
otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
   (h)   Before a veterinarian debarks or surgically silences a dog, the
veterinarian may give the owner of the dog a written waiver form that attests
that the dog is not a dangerous dog. The written waiver form shall include all
of the following:
      (1)   The veterinarian’s license number and current business address;
      (2)   The number of the license of the dog if the dog is licensed;
      (3)   A reasonable description of the age, coloring and gender of the dog
as well as any notable markings on the dog;
      (4)   The signature of the owner of the dog attesting that the owner’s
dog is not a dangerous dog;
      (5)   A statement that R.C. § 955.22(F) prohibits any person from doing
any of the following:
         A.   Debarking or surgically silencing a dog that the person knows or
has reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
         B.   Possessing a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason to
believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced; and/or
         C.   Falsely attesting on a waiver form provided by the veterinarian
under R.C. § 955.22(G) that the person’s dog is not a dangerous dog or
otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
   (i)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of division
(g) of this section that the veterinarian who is charged with the violation
obtained, prior to debarking or surgically silencing the dog, a written waiver
form that complies with division (h) of this section and that attests that the
dog is not a dangerous dog.
   (j)   (1)   The County Auditor shall issue a dangerous dog registration
certificate to a person who is the owner of a dog, who is 18 years of age or
older, and who provides the following to the County Auditor:
         A.   A fee of $50;
         B.   The person’s address, phone number, and other appropriate means
for the local dog warden or County Auditor to contact the person;
         C.   With respect to the person and the dog for which the registration
is sought, all of the following:
            1.   Either satisfactory evidence of the dog’s current rabies
vaccination or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that a rabies
vaccination is medically contraindicated for the dog;
            2.   Either satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has been
neutered or spayed or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that neutering
or spaying of the dog is medically contraindicated;
            3.   Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the person has posted
and will continue to post clearly visible signs at the person’s residence
warning both minors and adults of the presence of a dangerous dog on the
property;
            4.   Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has been
permanently identified by means of a microchip and the dog’s microchip number.
      (2)   Upon the issuance of a dangerous dog registration certificate to
the owner of a dog, the County Auditor shall provide the owner with a uniformly
designed tag that identifies the animal as a dangerous dog. The owner shall
renew the certificate annually for the same fee and in the same manner as the
initial certificate was obtained. If a certificate holder relocates to a new
county, the certificate holder shall follow the procedure in division (j)(3)B.
of this section and, upon the expiration of the certificate issued in the
original county, shall renew the certificate in the new county.
      (3)   A.   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within the
same county, the owner shall provide notice of the new address to the County
Auditor within ten days of relocating to the new address.
         B.   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within
another county, the owner shall do both of the following within ten days of
relocating to the new address:
            1.   Provide written notice of the new address and a copy of the
original dangerous dog registration certificate to the County Auditor of the
new county;
            2.   Provide written notice of the new address to the County
Auditor of the county where the owner previously resided.
      (4)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall present the dangerous dog
registration certificate upon being requested to do so by any law enforcement
officer, dog warden, or public health official charged with enforcing this
section.
(R.C. § 955.22)
   (k)   Hearing.
      (1)   The municipal court or county court that has territorial
jurisdiction over the residence of the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog
shall conduct any hearing concerning the designation of the dog as a nuisance
dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog.
      (2)   If a person who is authorized to enforce this chapter has
reasonable cause to believe that a dog in the person’s jurisdiction is a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, the person shall notify the owner,
keeper, or harborer of that dog, by certified mail or in person, of both of the
following:
         A.   That the person has designated the dog a nuisance dog, dangerous
dog, or vicious dog, as applicable;
         B.   That the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog may request a
hearing regarding the designation in accordance with this division (k). The
notice shall include instructions for filing a request for a hearing in the
county in which the dog’s owner, keeper, or harborer resides.
      (3)   If the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog disagrees with the
designation of the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, as
applicable, the owner, keeper, or harborer, not later than ten days after
receiving notification of the designation, may request a hearing regarding the
determination. The request for a hearing shall be in writing and shall be filed
with the municipal court or county court that has territorial jurisdiction over
the residence of the dog’s owner, keeper, or harborer. At the hearing, the
person who designated the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog
has the burden of proving, by clear and convincing evidence, that the dog is a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog. The owner, keeper, or harborer of
the dog or the person who designated the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog,
or vicious dog may appeal the court’s final determination as in any other case
filed in that court.
      (4)   A court, upon motion of an owner, keeper, or harborer or an
attorney representing the owner, keeper, or harborer, may order that the dog
designated as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog be held in the
possession of the owner, keeper, or harborer until the court makes a final
determination under this section or during the pendency of an appeal, as
applicable. Until the court makes a final determination and during the pendency
of any appeal, the dog shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the
provisions of division (e) that apply to dangerous dogs regardless of whether
the dog has been designated as a vicious dog or a nuisance dog rather than a
dangerous dog. The owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog shall not be required
to comply with any other requirements established in this Code or the Ohio
Revised Code that concern a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, as
applicable, until the court makes a final determination and during the pendency
of any appeal.
      (5)   If a dog is finally determined under this division (k), or on
appeal as described in this division (k), to be a vicious dog, R.C. § 955.11(D)
and divisions (e) to (j) of this section apply with respect to the dog and the
owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog as if the dog were a dangerous dog, and §
505.24 applies with respect to the dog as if it were a dangerous dog, and the
court shall issue an order that specifies that those provisions apply with
respect to the dog and the owner, keeper, or harborer in that manner. As part
of the order, the court shall require the owner, keeper, or harborer to obtain
the liability insurance required under division (f)(1) in an amount described
in division (l)(5)B. of this section.
      (6)   As used in this division (k), NUISANCE DOG, DANGEROUS DOG, and
VICIOUS DOG have the same meanings as in R.C. § 955.11.
(R.C. § 955.222)
   (l)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 951.99)
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates division (c) of this section or commits a
violation of division (d) of this section that involves a dog that is not a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog shall be fined not less than $25 or
more than $100 on a first offense, and on each subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $75 or more than $250 and may be imprisoned for not more
than 30 days.
         B.   In addition to the penalties prescribed in division (l)(2)A. of
this section, if the offender is guilty of a violation of division (c) of this
section or a violation of division (d) of this section that involves a dog that
is not a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, the court may order the
offender to personally supervise the dog that the offender owns, keeps, or
harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience training, or to do both.
(R.C. § 955.99(E))
      (3)   A.   Whoever commits a violation of division (d) of this section
that involves a nuisance dog is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on the first
offense and of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on each subsequent offense
involving the same dog. Upon a person being convicted of or pleading guilty to
a third violation of division (d) of this section involving the same dog, the
court shall require the offender to register the involved dog as a dangerous
dog.
         B.   In addition to the penalties prescribed in division (l)(2)A. of
this section, if a violation of division (d) of this section involves a
nuisance dog, the court may order the offender to personally supervise the
nuisance dog that the offender owns, keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to
complete dog obedience training, or to do both.
(R.C. § 955.99(F))
      (4)   Whoever commits a violation of division (d) of this section that
involves a dangerous dog, or a violation of division (e) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and of a
misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense. Additionally, the
court may order the offender to personally supervise the dangerous dog that the
offender owns, keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience
training, or to do both, and the court may order the offender to obtain
liability insurance pursuant to division (f) of this section. The court, in the
alternative, may order the dangerous dog to be humanely destroyed by a licensed
veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the county humane society at the
owner’s expense. With respect to a violation of division (d) of this section
that involves a dangerous dog, until the court makes a final determination and
during the pendency of any appeal of a violation of that division and at the
discretion of the dog warden, the dog shall be confined or restrained in
accordance with division (e) of this section or at the county dog pound at the
owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(G))
      (5)   A.   Whoever commits a violation of division (d) of this section
that involves a vicious dog is guilty of one of the following:
            1.   A felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the
dog kills or seriously injures a person. Additionally, the court shall order
that the vicious dog be humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the
county dog warden, or the county humane society at the owner’s expense.
            2.   A misdemeanor of the first degree if the dog causes serious
injury to a person. Additionally, the court may order the vicious dog to be
humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the
county humane society at the owner’s expense.
         B.   If the court does not order the vicious dog to be destroyed under
division (l)(5)A.2. of this section, the court shall issue an order that
specifies that R.C. § 955.11(D) and divisions (e) to (j) of this section apply
with respect to the dog and the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog as if the
dog were a dangerous dog and that §
505.24 applies with respect to the dog as if it were a dangerous dog. As part
of the order, the court shall order the offender to obtain the liability
insurance required under division (f)(1) of this section in an amount,
exclusive of interest and costs, that equals or exceeds $100,000. Until the
court makes a final determination and during the pendency of any appeal of a
violation of division (d) of this section and at the discretion of the dog
warden, the dog shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the
provisions described in division (e) of this section or at the county dog pound
at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(H))
      (6)   Whoever violates division (f)(2) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(J))
      (7)   Whoever violates division (g)(1), (g)(2), or (g)(3) of this section
is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Additionally, the court shall order that the dog involved in the violation be
humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the
county humane society. Until the court makes a final determination and during
the pendency of any appeal of a violation of division (g)(1), (g)(2), or (g)(3)
of this section and at the discretion of the dog warden, the dog shall be
confined or restrained in accordance with the provisions of division (e) of
this section or at the county dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(L))
      (8)   Whoever violates division (f)(1), (f)(3), or (f)(4) of this section
is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(M))
      (9)   Whoever violates division (j)(4) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(N))
      (10)   A.   If a dog is confined at the county dog pound pursuant to
division (l)(4), (l)(5), or (l)(7) of this section, the county dog warden shall
give written notice of the confinement to the owner of the dog. If the county
dog warden is unable to give the notice to the owner of the dog, the county dog
warden shall post the notice on the door of the residence of the owner of the
dog or in another conspicuous place on the premises at which the dog was
seized. The notice shall include a statement that a security in the amount of
$100 is due to the county dog warden within ten days to secure payment of all
reasonable expenses, including medical care and boarding of the dog for 60
days, expected to be incurred by the county dog pound in caring for the dog
pending the determination. The county dog warden may draw from the security any
actual costs incurred in caring for the dog.
         B.   If the person ordered to post security under division (l)(10)A.
of this section does not do so within ten days of the confinement of the
animal, the dog is forfeited, and the county dog warden may determine the
disposition of the dog unless the court issues an order that specifies
otherwise.
         C.   Not more than ten days after the court makes a final
determination under division (l)(4), (l)(5), or (l)(7) of this section, the
county dog warden shall provide the owner of the dog with the actual cost of
the confinement of the dog. If the county dog warden finds that the security
provided under division (l)(10)A. of this section is less than the actual cost
of confinement of the dog, the owner shall remit the difference between the
security provided and the actual cost to the county dog warden within 30 days
after the court’s determination. If the county dog warden finds that the
security provided under division (l)(10)A. of this section is greater than that
actual cost, the county dog warden shall remit the difference between the
security provided and the actual cost to the owner within 30 days after the
court’s determination.
(R.C. § 955.99(P))
      (11)   As used in this division (l), NUISANCE DOG, DANGEROUS DOG, and
VICIOUS DOG have the same meanings as in R.C. § 955.11.
(R.C. § 955.99(Q))
   (m)   (1)   No person being the owner or having charge of any cat shall
permit such cat to run at large on any street, public place or land of other
than the owner and create an annoyance to any person. Any cat found running at
large on any street, public place or upon land of other than the owner and
creating an annoyance to any person may be impounded on sight and placed in the
animal shelter maintained by the Warren County Humane Society.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division, injury to any person, wildlife or
damage to property is prima-facie evidence of creating an annoyance.
      (3)   For the purpose of identification, all cats in the city shall carry
a tag with the name, address and telephone number of the owner or person having
custody of the cat.
      (4)   The Animal Warden upon impounding any cat with an identification
tag shall notify its owner within twenty-four hours.
      (5)   The Animal Warden in the performance of his or her duties may by
the use of the humane implements capture, entrap and otherwise apprehend cats
which are at large and creating an annoyance to any person.
(Ord. 31-1977, passed 5-9-1977)
§ 505.02 IMPOUNDING AND DISPOSITION; RECORDS.
   (a)   A police officer or animal warden may impound every dog or other
animal found in violation of §
505.01. If the impounded dog is not wearing a valid registration tag, the dog
shall forthwith be turned over to an officer charged by law with the custody
and disposal of such dogs. If the dog is wearing a valid registration tag or
the identity of the owner or harborer is otherwise established, notice shall
immediately be given to the owner or harborer that the dog has been impounded.
Notice may be by telephone or by ordinary mail to the last known address of the
owner or harborer. The dog shall not be released except upon the payment of
reasonable expenses for its taking and keeping. Any dog not redeemed within
three days of the time it is seized or impounded may be sold or otherwise
disposed of as provided by R.C. § 955.16.
   (b)   A record of all dogs impounded, the disposition of the same, the
owner’s name and address, if known, and a statement of any costs or receipts
involving the dog shall be kept.
§ 505.03 REGISTRATION OF DOGS REQUIRED.
   (a)   No owner, keeper or harborer of a dog more than three months of age,
nor owner of a dog kennel, shall fail to file an application for registration
required by R.C. § 955.01, nor shall he or she fail to pay the legal fee
therefor.
(R.C. § 955.21)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100 on a first offense, and on each subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $75 nor more than $250 and may be imprisoned for not more
than 30 days.
(R.C. § 955.99(E))
§ 505.04 ABANDONING ANIMALS.
   (a)   No owner or keeper of a dog, cat or other domestic animal shall
abandon the animal.
(R.C. § 959.01)
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
first degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 959.99(E)(3))
§ 505.05 KILLING OR INJURING ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, kill or injure a dog, cat or any other domestic animal that is the
property of another. This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian
acting in an official capacity.
(R.C. § 959.02)
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
If the value of the animal killed or the injury done amounts to $300 or more,
whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(B))
(Ord. 8-1983, passed 1-24-1983)
§ 505.06 POISONING ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, administer poison, except a licensed veterinarian acting in that
capacity, to a dog, cat or any other domestic animal that is the property of
another; and no person shall, willfully and without the consent of the owner,
place any poisoned food where it may be easily found and eaten by any such
animal, either upon his or her own lands or the lands of another.
(R.C. § 959.03)
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(C))
§ 505.07 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS; CRUELTY TO COMPANION ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person shall:
      (1)   Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary sustenance,
unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, or impound or
confine an animal without supplying it during the confinement with a sufficient
quantity of good wholesome food and water;
      (2)   Impound or confine an animal without affording it, during the
confinement, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow or excessive direct
sunlight, if it can reasonably be expected that the animal would otherwise
become sick or in some other way suffer. This division does not apply to
animals impounded or confined prior to slaughter. For the purpose of this
section, SHELTER means an artificial enclosure, windbreak, sunshade or natural
windbreak or sunshade that is developed from the earth’s contour, tree
development or vegetation;
      (3)   Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or inhuman manner;
      (4)   Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or fowl, swine, sheep or
goats in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air, nor feed
cows on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk;
      (5)   Detain livestock in railroad cars or compartments longer than 28
hours after they are so placed without supplying them with necessary food,
water and attention, nor permit the stock to be so crowded as to overlie,
crush, wound or kill each other.
   (b)   Upon the written request of the owner or person in custody of any
particular shipment of livestock, which written request shall be separate and
apart from any printed bill of lading or other railroad form, the length of
time in which the livestock may be detained in any cars or compartment without
food, water, and attention may be extended to 36 hours without penalty
therefor. Division (a) of this section does not prevent the dehorning of
cattle.
   (c)   All fines collected for violations of division (a) of this section
shall be paid to the Society or Association for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, if there is one in the municipality; otherwise, all fines shall be
paid to the General Fund.
(R.C. § 959.13)
   (d)   Cruelty to companion animals.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         A.   ANIMAL RESCUE FOR DOGS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 956.01.
         B.   BOARDING KENNEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 956.01.
         C.   CAPTIVE WHITE- TAILED DEER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
1531.01.
         D.   COMPANION ANIMAL. Any animal that is kept inside a residential
dwelling and any dog or cat regardless of where it is kept, including a pet
store as defined in R.C. § 956.01. “Companion animal” does not include
livestock or any wild animal.
         E.   CRUELTY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         F.   DOG KENNEL. Means an animal rescue for dogs, a boarding kennel,
or a training kennel.
         G.   FEDERAL ANIMAL WELFARE ACT. The “Laboratory Animal Act of 1966",
Pub. L. No. 89-544, 80 Stat. 350 (1966), 7 U.S.C. §§ 2131 et seq., as amended
by the “Animal Welfare Act of 1970", Pub. L. No. 91-579, 84 Stat. 1560 (1970),
the “Animal Welfare Act Amendments of 1976", Pub. L. No. 94-279, 90 Stat. 417
(1976), and the “Food Security Act of 1985", Pub. L. No. 99-198, 99 Stat. 1354
(1985), and as it may be subsequently amended.
         H.   LIVESTOCK. Means horses, mules, and other equidae; cattle, sheep,
goats, and other bovidae; swine and other suidae; poultry; alpacas; llamas;
captive white- tailed deer; and any other animal that is raised or maintained
domestically for food or fiber.
         I.   PRACTICE OF VETERINARY MEDICINE. Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4741.01.
         J.   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. A structure or shelter or the portion of a
structure or shelter that is used by one or more humans for the purpose of a
habitation.
         K.   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Means any of the following:
            1.   Physical harm that carries an unnecessary or unjustifiable
substantial risk of death;
            2.   Physical harm that involves either partial or total permanent
incapacity;
            3.   Physical harm that involves acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
         L.   TORMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         M.   TORTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         N.   TRAINING KENNEL. Means an establishment operating for profit that
keeps, houses, and maintains dogs for the purpose of training the dogs in
return for a fee or other consideration.
         O.   WILD ANIMAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or
maim, cruelly beat, poison, needlessly kill or commit an act of cruelty against
a companion animal.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly cause serious physical harm to a
companion animal.
      (4)   No person who confines or who is the custodian or caretaker of a
companion animal shall negligently do any of the following:
         A.   Torture, torment, or commit an act of cruelty against the
companion animal;
         B.   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it can reasonably be
expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way
as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement;
         C.   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (5)   No person who confines or who is the custodian or caretaker of a
companion animal shall recklessly deprive the companion animal of necessary
sustenance or confine the companion animal without supplying it during the
confinement with sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water.
      (6)   No owner, manager, or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is
the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall knowingly do any of the
following:
         A.   Torture, torment, or commit an act of cruelty against the
companion animal;
         B.   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it can reasonably be
expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way
as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement;
         C.   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (7)   No owner, manager, or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is
the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall negligently do any of
the following:
         A.   Torture, torment, or commit an act of cruelty against the
companion animal;
         B.   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it can reasonably be
expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way
as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement;
         C.   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (8)   Divisions (d)(2), (d)(3), (d)(4), (d)(5), (d)(6), and (d)(7) of
this section do not apply to any of the following:
         A.   A companion animal used in scientific research conducted by an
institution in accordance with the federal animal welfare act and related
regulations;
         B.   The lawful practice of veterinary medicine by a person who has
been issued a license, temporary permit, or registration certificate to do so
under R.C. Chapter 4741;
         C.   Dogs being used or intended for use for hunting or field trial
purposes, provided that the dogs are being treated in accordance with usual and
commonly accepted practices for the care of hunting dogs;
         D.   The use of common training devices, if the companion animal is
being treated in accordance with usual and commonly accepted practices for the
training of animals;
         E.   The administering of medicine to a companion animal that was
properly prescribed by a person who has been issued a license, temporary
permit, or registration certificate under R.C. Chapter 4741.
      (9)   Notwithstanding any section of the Ohio Revised Code that otherwise
provides for the distribution of fine moneys, the Clerk of Court shall forward
all fines the Clerk collects that are so imposed for any violation of this
division (d) to the Treasurer of the municipality, whose county humane society
or law enforcement agency is to be paid the fine money as determined under this
division. The Treasurer shall pay the fine moneys to the county humane society
or the county, township, municipal corporation, or state law enforcement agency
in this state that primarily was responsible for or involved in the
investigation and prosecution of the violation. If a county humane society
receives any fine moneys under this division, the county humane society shall
use the fine moneys either to provide the training that is required for humane
agents under R.C. § 1717.06 or to provide additional training for humane
agents.
(R.C. § 959.131)
   (e)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree. In addition, the court may order the offender
to forfeit the animal or livestock and may provide for its disposition,
including but not limited to the sale of the animal or livestock. If an animal
or livestock is forfeited and sold pursuant to this division, the proceeds from
the sale first shall be applied to pay the expenses incurred with regard to the
care of the animal from the time it was taken from the custody of the former
owner. The balance of the proceeds from the sale, if any, shall be paid to the
former owner of the animal.
(R.C. § 959.99(D))
   (f)   (1)   Whoever violates division (d)(2) or (d)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (d)(3) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (d)(4) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
first degree on each subsequent offense.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (d)(6) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (d)(7) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   A.   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of division (d) of this section to forfeit to an
impounding agency, as defined in R.C. § 959.132, any or all of the companion
animals in that person’s ownership or care. The court also may prohibit or
place limitations on the person’s ability to own or care for any companion
animals for a specified or indefinite period of time.
         B.   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of division (a) of this section or division (d) of this section
to reimburse an impounding agency for the reasonably necessary costs incurred
by the agency for the care of a companion animal that the agency impounded as a
result of the investigation or prosecution of the violation, provided that the
costs were not otherwise paid under R.C. § 959.132.
      (7)   If a court has reason to believe that a person who is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of division (d) of this section has a mental or
emotional disorder that contributed to the violation, the court may impose as a
community control sanction or as a condition of probation a requirement that
the offender undergo psychological evaluation or counseling. The court shall
order the offender to pay the costs of the evaluation or counseling.
(R.C. § 959.99(E))
Statutory reference:
   Impoundment of companion animals; notice and hearing, see R.C. § 959.132
§ 505.08 NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall keep or harbor any animal or fowl in the municipality
so as to create noxious or offensive odors or unsanitary conditions which are a
menace to the health, comfort or safety of the public.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 505.09 BARKING OR HOWLING DOGS.
   No owner, keeper or harborer or any animal shall permit or suffer the animal
to continuously or frequently bark, howl or emit other audible sounds which
create unreasonable, excessive or offensive noise to the annoyance or
discomfort of any person of ordinary sensibilities in the vicinity of the
animal.
(Ord. 88-151, passed 12-11-1989; Ord. 2008-100, passed 9-8-2008)
§ 505.10 ANIMAL BITES; REPORTS AND QUARANTINE.
   (a)   (1)   Whenever any person is bitten by a dog or other animal, report
of the bite shall be made to the Health Commissioner within 24 hours. The dog
or other animal inflicting a bite shall immediately be examined by a qualified
veterinarian and results of such examination shall be reported to the Health
Commissioner within 24 hours. At the direction of the Health Commissioner, the
dog or other animal shall either be confined by its owner or harborer to his or
her premises away from the public at large, or be placed under supervision of a
veterinarian at the owner’s or harborer’s expense. The isolation or observation
period shall not be less than ten days from the date the person was bitten at
which time report of the condition of the animal shall be made to the Health
Commissioner.
      (2)   No person shall fail to comply with the requirements of this
section or with any order of the Health Commissioner made pursuant thereto, nor
fail to immediately report to the Health Commissioner any symptom or behavior
suggestive of rabies.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 505.11 HUNTING PROHIBITED. (REPEALED)
Editor’s note: Section 505.11 was repealed by Ordinance 2019-148, passed
December 9, 2019.
§ 505.12 COLORING RABBITS AND BABY POULTRY; SALE OR DISPLAY OF POULTRY.
   (a)   No person shall dye or otherwise color any rabbit or baby poultry,
including, but not limited to, chicks and ducklings. No person shall sell,
offer for sale, expose for sale, raffle or give away any rabbit or baby poultry
which has been dyed or otherwise colored. No poultry younger than four weeks of
age may be sold, given away or otherwise distributed to any person in lots of
less than three. Stores, shops, vendors and others offering young poultry for
sale or other distribution shall provide and operate brooders or other heating
devices that may be necessary to maintain poultry in good health, and shall
keep adequate food and water available to the poultry at all times.
(R.C. § 925.62)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense; each subsequent offense is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. § 925.99(B))
§ 505.13 RABIES; MUZZLING AND VACCINATION.
   (a)   Muzzling. Whenever it becomes necessary to safeguard the public from
the dangers of hydrophobia, the Safety Director and/or the City Manager if he
or she deems it necessary, shall issue a proclamation ordering every person
owning or keeping an animal to confine it securely on his or her premises
unless the animal shall have a muzzle of sufficient strength to prevent its
biting any person. Any unmuzzled animal running at large during the time of the
proclamation shall be seized and impounded, unless noticeably infected with
rabies. All animals so noticeably infected with rabies and displaying vicious
propensities shall be destroyed by the City Animal Warden representative or the
police without notice to the owner. Animals impounded during the first two days
of the proclamation shall, if claimed within five days, be released to the
owner, unless infected with rabies, upon payment of the impounding charges. If
unclaimed after that period, the animal will become under humane shelter rules.
No person knowing or suspecting that an animal has rabies shall allow the
animal to be taken off his or her premises or beyond the limits of the city
without written permission of the City Animal Warden representative. Every
owner or other person upon ascertaining an animal is rabid shall immediately
notify the City Animal Warden representative or any police officer who shall
see that the animal is removed to the pound or summarily destroy it.
   (b)   Vaccination. No owner of any dog or cat shall keep or maintain the dog
or cat unless it has been vaccinated by a licensed veterinary surgeon with
anti-rabies vaccine, within one year preceding the date on which the animal is
kept or maintained.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 31-1977, passed 5-9-1977)
§ 505.14 CITY ANIMAL WARDEN.
   (a)   There is created the position of City Animal Warden which shall be a
part-time position. The duties and responsibilities shall be the enforcement of
this chapter and the general laws of the state, county and city pertaining to
dogs, cats and other animals.
   (b)   The Animal Warden is empowered to apprehend and incarcerate all
animals whose actions are contrary to the provisions of this chapter or the
general laws pertaining to animals.
   (c)   The Animal Warden is authorized to file complaints before the
Municipal Court in order to enforce compliance with this chapter and all laws
pertaining to animals.
   (d)   The Animal Warden is granted any and all other powers necessary for
the proper enforcement of this chapter and for the general regulations of
animals within the city, and he or she is authorized to exercise and use
reasonable force in apprehending and controlling animals and the right of
reasonable entry on private property for pursuit and seizure of animals
thereon, and shall have the power of a police officer in that capacity.
   (e)   No person shall hinder, impede, or interfere with the Animal Warden in
his or her duties or responsibilities in apprehending and incarcerating animals
within the city. All persons so doing can and will be charged under the
sections of interfering with a police officer.
   (f)   The City Animal Warden shall work for the Safety Director and be a
sworn officer to uphold and enforce the laws of this chapter and the state, and
be under his or her direction.
   (g)   The City Animal Warden being a part-time position shall be appointed
by the City Manager after he or she and the Safety Director select a suitable
person for the position.
   (h)   The City Animal Warden being a part-time position shall be compensated
as established by the City Manager and may not incur any expenses other than
decided upon at time of hiring, without prior approval of the Safety Director
and/or City Manager.
   (i)   The position of City Animal Warden being a part-time position is not
subject to the provisions of the annual city ordinance establishing employee
benefits.
   (j)   This section of
Chapter 505 does not imply nor in any way offset the decision of Council or the
city administration that anytime in the future the city may decide to contract
for the services of City Animal Warden through a county agency.
(Ord. 31-1977, passed 5-9-1977)
§ 505.15 TEASING OR STRIKING DOGS USED BY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (a)   No person shall maliciously or willfully tease or strike dogs used by
the Police Department.
   (b)   A person commits the offense of teasing or striking dogs used by the
Police Department if he or she willfully and maliciously taunts, torments,
teases, beats or strikes any dog used by the Police Department in the
performance of the functions or duties of the Department, or interferes with or
meddles with any dog used by the Department or any member thereof in the
performance of the functions or duties of the Department or of such officer or
member.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(Ord. 32-1981, passed 4-27-1981)
§ 505.16 INJURING OR KILLING DOGS USED BY THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (a)   No person shall maliciously or willfully without the consent of the
owner injure or kill dogs used by the Police Department.
   (b)   A person commits the offense of injuring or killing a dog used by the
Police Department if he or she willfully or maliciously tortures, mutilates,
injures or kills any dog used by the Police Department in the performance of
the functions or duties of the Department.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(Ord. 32-1981, passed 4-27-1981)
§ 505.17 RESERVED.
§ 505.18 DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS DOGS.
   (a)   Restraint regulations. No owner, keeper or harborer of a dangerous or
vicious dog shall fail to do either of the following:
      (1)   While that dog is on the premises of the owner, keeper or harborer,
securely confine it at all times in a building, in a locked pen which has a
top, locked fenced yard or other locked enclosure which has a top, except that
a dangerous dog may, in the alternative, be tied with a leash or tether so that
the dog is adequately restrained;
      (2)   While that dog is off the premises of the owner, keeper or
harborer, keep it on a chain-link leash or tether that is not more than six
feet in length and additionally do at least one of the following:
         A.   Keep that dog in a locked pen which has a top, locked fenced yard
or other locked enclosure which has a top.
         B.   Have the leash or tether controlled by a person who is of
suitable age and discretion or securely attach, tie or affix the leash or
tether to the ground or stationary object or fixture so that the dog is
adequately restrained and station such person in close enough proximity to that
dog so as to prevent it from causing injury to any person;
         C.   Muzzle the dog.
   (b)   Insurance requirements. No owner, keeper or harborer of a vicious dog
shall fail to obtain liability insurance with an insurer authorized to write
liability insurance in the state providing coverage in each occurrence, subject
to a limit, exclusive of interest and costs, of not less than $50,000 because
of damage or bodily injury to or death of a person caused by the vicious dog.
(R.C. § 955.22)
   (c)   Dangerous dog violations. If a violation of division (b) hereof
involves a dangerous dog, whoever violates that division is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
third degree on each subsequent offense. Additionally, the court may order the
offender to personally supervise the dangerous dog that he or she owns, keeps
or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience training, or to do
both, and the court may order the offender to obtain liability insurance
pursuant to division (c) hereof. The court, in the alternative, may order the
dangerous dog to be humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the Dog
Warden or the humane society.
   (d)   Vicious dog violations. If a violation of division (b) hereof involves
a vicious dog, whoever violates that division is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   A misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense. Additionally,
the court may order the vicious dog to be humanely destroyed by a licensed
veterinarian, the Dog Warden or the humane society.
      (2)   A misdemeanor of the first degree if the dog causes injury other
than killing or serious injury to any person.
   (e)   Violation a misdemeanor. Whoever violates division (b) hereof is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 955.99) (Ord. 87-100, passed 10-26-1987)
§ 505.19 ANIMAL WASTE REMOVAL.
   (a)   The owner or person in charge of every dog, except guide dogs for
blind individuals, shall be responsible for the immediate removal of any feces
deposited by his or her dog or dogs on property, public or private, not owned
or possessed by such person who is the owner or person in charge of such dog or
dogs.
   (b)   No person, being the owner or person in charge of any dog, except
guide dogs for blind individuals, shall fail to immediately remove feces
deposited by his or her dog or dogs on property, public or private, not owned
or possessed by such person who is the owner or person in charge of such dog.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2009-91, passed 8-17-2009)
§ 505.20 HINDERING CAPTURE OF UNREGISTERED DOG.
   (a)   No person shall obstruct or interfere with anyone lawfully engaged in
capturing an unlicensed dog or making an examination of a dog wearing a tag.
(R.C. § 955.24)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
§ 505.21 DOGS REQUIRED TO WEAR TAGS.
   (a)   No owner of a dog, except a dog constantly confined to a dog kennel
registered under R.C. Chapter 955 or one licensed under R.C. Chapter 956, shall
fail to require the dog to wear, at all times, a valid tag issued in connection
with a certificate of registration. A dog found not wearing at any time a valid
tag shall be prima-facie evidence of lack of registration and shall subject any
dog found not wearing such a tag to impounding, sale, or destruction.
(R.C. § 955.10)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
§ 505.22 UNLAWFUL TAGS.
   (a)   No person shall own, keep or harbor a dog wearing a fictitious,
altered or invalid registration tag or a registration tag not issued by the
County Auditor in connection with the registration of that animal.
(R.C. § 955.25)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
§ 505.23 RABIES; QUARANTINE.
   (a)   No person having knowledge of the existence of rabies in an animal, or
knowledge that an animal has exhibited symptoms or behavior suggestive of
rabies, or knowledge that an animal has bitten any person, shall fail to
immediately report that information to the Mayor or the Chief of Police.
   (b)   Whenever it is established by the Mayor or Chief of Police that any
animal has bitten any person or exhibits symptoms or behavior suggestive of
rabies, the person who owns, harbors or otherwise cares for the animal shall
confine it in close quarantine and isolation or shall place the animal in the
establishment of a veterinarian until, in either case, it is determined by the
County Board of Health that the animal is not afflicted with rabies. The
isolation and quarantine period hereby required shall be not less than ten days
from the date the person was bitten. If the animal has, or develops, any
symptoms suspicious of rabies during the ten-day period, the County Board of
Health shall be notified immediately. All expenses incurred for the keeping of
the animal, or the necessary tests to determine whether rabies exists, shall be
borne exclusively by the person who owns, harbors or otherwise cares for the
animal.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 505.24 RESTRICTIONS ON DOG OWNERSHIP FOR CERTAIN CONVICTED FELONS.
   (a)   No person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a felony offense of
violence committed on or after May 22, 2012 or a felony violation of any
provision of R.C. Chapter 959, R.C. Chapter 2923 or R.C. Chapter 2925 committed
on or after May 22, 2012 shall knowingly own, possess, have custody of, or
reside in a residence with either of the following for a period of three years
commencing either upon the date of release of the person from any period of
incarceration imposed for the offense or violation or, if the person is not
incarcerated for the offense or violation, upon the date of the person’s final
release from the other sanctions imposed for the offense or violation:
      (1)   An unspayed or unneutered dog older than 12 weeks of age;
      (2)   Any dog that has been determined to be a dangerous dog under R.C.
Chapter 955 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (b)   A person described in division (a) of this section shall microchip for
permanent identification any dog owned, possessed by, or in the custody of the
person.
   (c)   (1)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to any person who is
confined in a correctional institution of the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction.
      (2)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to any person with
respect to any dog that the person owned, possessed, had custody of, or resided
in a residence with prior to May 22, 2012.
(R.C. § 955.54)
   (d)   Whoever violates division (a) or (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(O))
§ 505.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.
CHAPTER 509: DISORDERLY CONDUCT AND PEACE DISTURBANCE
Section
509.01   Riot
509.011   Inciting to violence
509.02   Failure to disperse
509.03   Disorderly conduct
509.04   Disturbing a lawful meeting
509.05   Misconduct at an emergency
509.06   Inducing panic
509.07   Making false alarms
509.08   Reserved
509.09   Curfew
509.10   Disturbing the peace
509.11   Unintentional false alarms
509.12   Justifiable use of force to suppress riot
509.13   Impeding public passage of an emergency service responder
509.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Criminal trespass, see §
541.05
Statutory reference:
   Cordoning off riot areas, prohibiting sales of firearms and explosives, see
R.C. § 3761.16
   Emergency suspension of permits and sales by Director of Liquor Control, see
R.C. § 4301.251
   Use of force to suppress riot, see R.C. § 2917.05
§ 509.01 RIOT.
   (a)   No person shall participate with four or more others in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of §
509.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance:
      (1)   With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a
misdemeanor, other than disorderly conduct;
      (2)   With purpose to intimidate a public official or employee into
taking or refraining from official action, or with purpose to hinder, impede or
obstruct a function of government;
      (3)   With purpose to hinder, impede or obstruct the orderly process of
administration or instruction at an educational institution, or to interfere
with or disrupt lawful activities carried on at the institution.
   (b)   No person shall participate with four or more others with purpose to
do an act with unlawful force or violence, even though the act might otherwise
be lawful.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2917.03)
   (d)   For the purposes of prosecuting violations of this section, the
prosecution is not required to allege or prove that the offender expressly
agreed with four or more others to commit any act that constitutes a violation
this section prior to or while committing those acts.
(R.C. § 2917.031)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated riot, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2917.02
§ 509.011 INCITING TO VIOLENCE.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly engage in conduct designed to urge or incite
another to commit any offense of violence when either of the following apply:
      (1)   The conduct takes place under circumstances that create a clear and
present danger that any offense of violence will be committed.
      (2)   The conduct proximately results in the commission of any offense of
violence.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inciting to violence. If
the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or incited to
commit is a misdemeanor, inciting to violence is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or
incited to commit is a felony, inciting to violence is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2917.01)
§ 509.02 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (a)   Where five or more persons are participating in a course of disorderly
conduct in violation of §
509.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and there are other
persons in the vicinity whose presence creates the likelihood of physical harm
to persons or property or of serious public inconvenience, annoyance or alarm,
a law enforcement officer or other public official may order the participants
and the other persons to disperse. No person shall knowingly fail to obey the
order.
   (b)   Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(3) of this section,
failure to disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in division (a) of this section creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind.
(R.C. § 2917.04)
§ 509.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (a)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance or alarm to
another, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language
to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway or right-of-way, or to, from, within or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender;
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (b)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance or alarm
to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he or she
were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have that effect on others;
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (c)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse is not a violation of division
(b) of this section.
   (d)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (b) of this section.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (e)(2) and (e)(3) of this
section, disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         A.   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist.
         B.   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone.
         C.   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person or other authorized person who is engaged in the person’s duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind.
         D.   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to three or more violations of division (b) of this section, Ohio R.C. 2917.11
(B), or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
   (f)   For the purpose of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2925.01.
      (2)   EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      (3)   EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. The singular of EMERGENCY FACILITY
PERSONNEL as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      (4)   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. The singular of EMERGENCY
MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.11)
§ 509.04 DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act which obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of
the meeting, procession or gathering.
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture or display which outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting. Except as otherwise provided in this division, disturbing a lawful
meeting is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Disturbing a lawful meeting is a
misdemeanor of the first degree if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The violation is committed with the intent to disturb or disquiet
any assemblage of people met for religious worship at a tax-exempt place of
worship, regardless of whether the conduct is within the place at which the
assemblage is held or is on the property on which that place is located and
disturbs the order and solemnity of the assemblage.
      (2)   The violation is committed with the intent to prevent, disrupt, or
interfere with a virtual meeting or gathering of people for religious worship,
through use of a computer, computer system, telecommunications device, or other
electronic device or system, or in any other manner.
   (c)   As used in this section:
      (1)   COMPUTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (2)   COMPUTER SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (3)    TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2913.01.
      (4)   VIRTUAL MEETING OR GATHERING. A meeting or gathering by interactive
video conference or teleconference, or by a combination thereof.
(R.C. § 2917.12)
§ 509.05 MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person or
other authorized person engaged in the person’s duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility;
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer’s duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind.
   (b)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative’s duties.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an emergency.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If violation of this section creates a risk
of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (d)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      (2)   EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. The singular of EMERGENCY FACILITY
PERSONNEL as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      (3)   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. The singular of EMERGENCY
MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.13)
§ 509.06 INDUCING PANIC.
   (a)   No person shall cause the evacuation of any public place, or otherwise
cause serious public inconvenience or alarm, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Initiating or circulating a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false.
      (2)   Threatening to commit any offense of violence.
      (3)   Committing any offense, with reckless disregard of the likelihood
that its commission will cause serious public inconvenience or alarm.
   (b)   Division (a)(1) of this section does not apply to any person
conducting an authorized fire or emergency drill.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inducing panic.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(3), inducing panic is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If a violation of this section results in physical harm to any
person, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of $1,000 or more,
inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
public place involved in a violation of division (a)(1) is a school or an
institution of higher education, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a
purported, threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, inducing
panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (d)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or these codified ordinances may be prosecuted under
this section, the other section, or both sections.
   (e)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   BIOLOGICAL AGENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2917.33.
      (2)   ECONOMIC HARM. Any of the following:
         A.   All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary harm suffered
by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. ECONOMIC HARM as described in
this division includes but is not limited to all of the following:
            1.   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            2.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            3.   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
            4.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
         B.   All costs incurred by the state or any political subdivision as a
result of, or in making any response to, the criminal conduct that constituted
the violation of this section or R.C. § 2917.32, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, including, but not limited to, all costs so
incurred by any law enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue personnel or
emergency medical services personnel of the state or the political subdivision.
      (3)   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2133.21.
      (4)   INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION. Any of the following:
         A.   A state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.12(A)(1),
community college, state community college, university branch or technical
college;
         B.   A private, nonprofit college, university or other post-secondary
institution located in this state that possesses a certificate of authorization
issued by the Chancellor of Higher Education pursuant to R.C. Chapter 1713;
         C.   A post-secondary institution with a certificate of registration
issued by the State Board of Career Colleges and Schools pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 3332.
      (5)   SCHOOL. Any school operated by a board of education or any school
for which the Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards
under R.C. § 3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular
activities or training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a
violation of this section is committed.
      (6)   WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Any of the following:
         A.   Any weapon that is designed or intended to cause death or serious
physical harm through the release, dissemination or impact of toxic or
poisonous chemicals, or other precursors;
         B.   Any weapon involving a disease organism or biological agent;
         C.   Any weapon that is designed to release radiation or radioactivity
at a level dangerous to human life;
         D.   Any of the following, except to the extent that the item or
device in question is expressly excepted from the definition of DESTRUCTIVE
DEVICE pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(4) and regulations issued under that
section:
            1.   Any explosive, incendiary or poison gas bomb, grenade, rocket
having a propellant charge of more than four ounces, missile having an
explosive or incendiary charge of more than one- quarter ounce, mine or similar
device;
            2.   Any combination of parts either designed or intended for use
in converting any item or device into any item or device described in division
D.1. of this definition and from which an item or device described in that
division may be readily assembled.
(R.C. § 2917.31)
§ 509.07 MAKING FALSE ALARMS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm.
      (2)   Knowingly cause a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, public or private, for dealing with
emergencies involving a risk of physical harm to persons or property.
      (3)   Report to any law enforcement agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing that the offense did not occur.
      (4)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to impede the operation of a critical
infrastructure facility.
   (b)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
fire or emergency drill.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making false alarms. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, making false alarms is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of
$1,000 or more, making false alarms is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a purported,
threatened, or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, making false alarms
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (d)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or these codified ordinances may be prosecuted under
this section, the other section, or both sections.
   (e)   As used in this section:
      (1)   CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      (2)   ECONOMIC HARM and WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Have the same meaning
as in R.C. § 2917.31.
(R.C. § 2917.32)
§ 509.08 RESERVED.
§ 509.09 CURFEW.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   ESTABLISHMENT means any privately owned place of business carried
on for a profit, or any place of amusement or entertainment to which the public
is invited.
      (2)   MINOR means any person under the age of 18 years.
      (3)   OPERATOR means any individual, firm, association, partnership or
corporation operating, managing or conducting any establishment; whenever used
in any clause prescribing a penalty, the term OPERATOR, as applied to
associations or partnerships, includes the members or partners thereof, and as
applied to a corporation, includes the officers thereof.
      (4)   PARENT means any natural parent of a minor, a guardian or any adult
person 21 years of age or over, responsible for the care and custody of a
minor.
      (5)   PUBLIC PLACE means any public street, highway, road, alley, park,
playground, public building or vacant lot.
      (6)   REMAIN means to loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon.
      (7)   DRIVE OR RIDE AIMLESSLY means to drive or to ride as a passenger in
or upon any public place by an unnecessarily circuitous route or to retrace the
same route.
   (b)   Curfew hours; prohibited conduct; exceptions.
      (1)   No minor shall remain in or upon any public place or any
establishment between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following
day, except that on Fridays and Saturdays, the hours shall be from 12:00
midnight to 6:00 a.m.
      (2)   No minor shall drive or ride aimlessly in an automobile, a truck or
a motorcycle between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following
day, except that on Fridays and Saturdays the hours shall be from 12:00
midnight to 6:00 a.m.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:
         A.   Accompanied by a parent, guardian, or custodian;
         B.   Accompanied by an adult specified by a parent, guardian, or
custodian;
         C.   Carrying out an errand or other lawful activity as directed by a
parent, guardian, or custodian;
         D.   Occupying the sidewalk of the place where the minor resides, or
the sidewalk of a place where the minor has permission from his or her parent
or guardian to be, or the sidewalk of a next-door neighbor not communicating an
objection to a police officer; or
         E.   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
            1.   Lawful employment;
            2.   A lawful athletic, educational, entertainment, religious, or
social event; or
            3.   Interstate travel.
   (c)   Parents’ responsibilities.
      (1)   No parent shall knowingly permit any minor to remain in or upon any
public place or any establishment between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
of the following day, except that on Fridays and Saturdays the hours shall be
from 12:00 midnight to 6:00 a.m.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any parent who
accompanies a minor, or to a parent who directs a minor upon an errand or other
legitimate business, or to any parent of a minor engaged in gainful lawful
employment during the curfew hours, or to any parent of a minor who shall
attend any entertainment in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (d)   Employer responsibilities. No operator of an establishment or their
agents or employees shall knowingly permit any minor to remain upon the
premises of the establishment between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of
the following day, except that on Fridays and Saturdays the hours shall be from
12:00 midnight to 6:00 a.m.
   (e)   Police officer’s duties. Any police officer who finds a minor
violating any provisions of this section shall obtain information from the
minor as to his or her name and address, age and the name of his or her parent
or parents. The minor shall thereupon be instructed to proceed to his or her
home forthwith. A written notice shall then be mailed by the Chief of Police to
the parent or parents of the minor advising of the violation.
   (f)   Violation. Each violation of the provisions of this section shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. H-58, passed 4-25-1966)
   (g)   Parental violation. Any parent who violates any provision of this
section after having received notice of a prior violation as provided in
division (e) hereof is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
   (h)   Employer violation. Any operator of an establishment or any agents or
employees of the operator who violates the provision of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 509.10 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (a)   No person by any means and after a request to desist shall continue to
make, or cause to be made any unreasonable and unnecessary noise of such a
character, intensity and duration as to disturb the peace and quiet of the
community or to be detrimental to the life or health of any individual, and no
person by word, or act, shall willfully conduct himself or herself in a noisy,
boisterous or other disorderly manner which disturbs the good order and quiet
of the community.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(Ord. 142-1979, passed 1-14-1980; Ord. 69-1985, passed 9-9-1985)
§ 509.11 UNINTENTIONAL FALSE ALARMS.
   (a)   For purposes of this section, FALSE ALARM means an alarm signal which
necessitates a response by the Police or Fire Division where an emergency
situation does not exist.
   (b)   Whenever more than one false alarm from any given premises occurs more
than one time in a six-month period, the owner of the property shall be fined a
fee for the second false alarm within the six-month period as established and
set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fine shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time. The fine for any additional false alarms
during the six month period will increase as established and set forth in the
fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fine shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 99-58, passed 4-12-1999)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 509.12 JUSTIFIABLE USE OF FORCE TO SUPPRESS RIOT.
   A law enforcement officer or firefighter engaged in suppressing a riot or in
protecting persons or property during a riot:
   (a)   Is justified in using force, other than deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters;
   (b)   Is justified in using force, including deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters whose conduct is creating a substantial risk of
serious physical harm to persons.
(R.C. § 2917.05)
§ 509.13 IMPEDING PUBLIC PASSAGE OF AN EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly obstruct any
highway, street, sidewalk, or any other public passage in such a manner as to
render the highway, street, sidewalk, or passage impassable without
unreasonable inconvenience or hazard if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The obstruction prevents an emergency vehicle from accessing a
highway or street, prevents an emergency service responder from responding to
an emergency, or prevents an emergency vehicle or an emergency service
responder from having access to an exit from an emergency.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a request or order from an emergency service
responder to remove or cease the obstruction, the person refuses to remove or
cease the obstruction.
   (b)   Division (a) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of R.C. § 2921.31 or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code. Any conduct
that is a violation of division (a) of this section and that also is a
violation of R.C. § 2921.31 or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code may
be prosecuted under this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code,
or both sections.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawfully impeding public
passage of an emergency service responder, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (d)   As used in this section, EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 2903.13.
(R.C. § 2917.14)
§ 509.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.
CHAPTER 511: NOISE CONTROL
Section
511.01   Declaration of policy
511.02   Definitions
511.03   Unnecessary, excessive, offensive noise prohibited
511.04   Musical instruments, radios and the like
511.05   Pools
511.06   Animals
511.07   Schools, hospitals, churches
511.08   Loading; unloading
511.09   Homeowners outdoor equipment
511.10   Construction
511.11   Exemptions
511.12   Fixed source noise levels
511.13   Waste disposal services
511.14   Amplified sound
511.15   Compliance period
511.16   Test procedures
511.17   Appeals
511.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Dogs barking or howling, see §
505.09
   Disorderly conduct, see §
509.03
   Transient vendor regulations, see
Ch. 707
§ 511.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the public policy of the city to reduce the
ambient noise level in the city, so as to preserve, protect and promote the
public health, welfare and the peace and quiet of the residents, foster the
convenience and comfort of its residents, and facilitate the enjoyment of the
natural attractions of the city.
(Ord. 88-151, passed 12-11-1989)
§ 511.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   ACCELERATION. The time rate of change of velocity.
   AMBIENT NOISE. The all-encompassing noise associated with a given
environment, being usually a composite of sounds from many sources.
   ANSI. The American National Standards Institute or its successor bodies.
   CONSTRUCTION NOISE. The noise emanating from construction activities as
described in §
511.10.
   CONTINUOUS SOUND. A sound with a duration greater than five minutes,
characterized by an average sound pressure level that exceeds the fixed source
noise levels described in §
511.12, measured as the root mean square (rms), and time-weighted average over
any one hour period and requires for accurate measurement the instrumentation
described in the definition for sound level meter hereof.
   CRITICAL CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT.  Construction equipment required to operate
24 hours a day to protect health and safety of the public and the workers.
   CYCLE. The complete sequence of values of a periodic quantity that occur
during a period and is referred to as cycles per second or hertz.
   dbA. The A weighted sound pressure level obtained by the use of metering
characteristics in the A weighting network specified in the latest edition of
ANSI S1.4.
   DECIBEL (db). A unit of measure, on a logarithmic scale to the base ten, of
the ratio of the magnitude of a particular sound pressure, which for the
purposes of this chapter shall be 20 micronewtons per square meter (MN/m2).
   DISPLACEMENT. The magnitude of the motion.
   EMERGENCY WORK. Work made necessary to restore property to a safe condition
following a public calamity or work required to protect persons or property
from an imminent exposure to danger; work by private or public utilities when
restoring utility services or protecting them from imminent danger.
   FIXED SOURCE. A machine or device capable of creating a noise level at the
property upon which it is regularly located, including, but not limited to: air
conditioning and refrigeration apparatus, industrial and commercial process
machinery, fan and the like.
   IMPULSIVE SOUND. A sound occurring less frequently than once per second,
characterized by a rapid rise in sound pressure such that it achieves its true
peak pressure with a rise time of 35 milliseconds or less, and the peak sound
pressure level exceeds the fixed source noise levels described in §
511.12, measured as the root mean square (rms), by ten dB, and which requires
for accurate measurement the instrumentation described in the definition for
sound level meter hereof.
   INTERMITTENT SOUND. A sound with a duration greater than one second but less
than five minutes, characterized by a rapid rise in sound pressure with a rise
time of greater than 35 milliseconds, with an average sound pressure level that
exceeds the fixed source noise levels described in §
511.12, measured as the root mean square (rms), by seven dBa, for the entire
duration of the noise and requires for accurate measurement the instrumentation
described in the definition for sound level meter hereof.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Includes, but is not limited to, automobiles, trucks,
motorcycles, minibikes, go-carts and snowmobiles.
   NOISE. Any undesired sound. NOISE LEVEL, for the purposes of this chapter,
the terms NOISE LEVEL and SOUND LEVEL where used are synonymous.
   PARTICLE VELOCITY. The time rate of change of displacement.
   PERSON. Any person, person’s firm, association, co-partnership, joint
venture, corporation or any entity public or private in nature.
   SOUND. An oscillation in pressure in air.
   SOUND LEVEL. In decibels, a weighted sound pressure level, measured by the
use of metering characteristics and frequency weightings specified in ANSI
Sd1.4 Specification for Sound Level Meters.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. A properly calibrated instrument including a microphone,
an amplifier, an output meter and frequency weighting networks for the
measurement of noise and sound levels in a specified manner. The meter must
satisfy the applicable requirements for an appropriate Type 1 or 2 SOUND LEVEL
METER as defined in ASNI S1.4 - 1971 or the most recent revision.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. In decibels, 20 times the logarithm to the base ten of
the ratio of the magnitude of a particular sound pressure to a standard
reference pressure, which for the purposes of this chapter shall be 20
micronewtons per square meter (i.e., 20u N/m2).
   UNNECESSARY, EXCESSIVE OR OFFENSIVE NOISE. Any offensive sound or noise
which annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace
or safety of others; or a noise level which exceeds the fixed source noise
level for the zone as provided in §
511.12, unless specified by a specific section, when measured at the property
line of the noise source.
   ZONING DISTRICTS. Those established by Title Five of the Planning and Zoning
Code.
(Ord. 88-151, passed 12-11-1989)
§ 511.03 UNNECESSARY, EXCESSIVE, OFFENSIVE NOISE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make, continue, or cause to be made or continued any
unnecessary, excessive or offensive noise which annoys, disturbs, injures or
endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others within the
limits of the city.
(Ord. 88-151, passed 12-11-1989)
§ 511.04 MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, RADIOS AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall operate or permit to be operated any musical instrument,
radio, phonograph, television set or any other instrument or device capable of
producing noise, in such a manner or with a volume as to create unnecessary,
excessive or offensive noise which annoys or disturbs the peace, quiet, comfort
or repose of the neighboring inhabitants, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 88-151, passed 12-11-1989)
§ 511.05 POOLS.
   No person shall make, continue or cause to be made or continued at any
swimming pool, unnecessary, excessive or offensive noise which annoys,
disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of
others particularly between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 88-151, passed 12-11-1989)
§ 511.06 ANIMALS.
   No owner, keeper or harborer or any animal shall permit or suffer the animal
to continuously or frequently bark, howl or emit other audible sounds which
create unreasonable, excessive or offensive noise to the annoyance or
discomfort of any person of ordinary sensibilities in the vicinity of the
animal. (Ord. 88-151, passed 12-11-1989)
§ 511.07 SCHOOLS, HOSPITALS, CHURCHES.
   No person shall create any unnecessary, excessive or offensive noise on any
street, sidewalk or property adjacent to any school, institution of learning or
church while any of the same is in use, or adjacent to any hospital at any
time, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in the streets, sidewalks or
public place indicating the presence of a school, institution of learning,
church or hospital.
(Ord. 88-151, passed 12-11-1989)
§ 511.08 LOADING; UNLOADING.
   No person shall create loud and excessive noise in connection with loading
or unloading any vehicle or the opening and/or destruction of bales, boxes,
crates and containers. If any noise for any duration over seven dbA over the
fixed source noise level as specified for continuous sound for the zone as
specified in §
511.12, when measured at the property line of the noise source, between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., then this in itself would declare the noise
unnecessary and excessive.
(Ord. 88-151, passed 12-11-1989)
§ 511.09 HOMEOWNERS OUTDOOR EQUIPMENT.
   (a)   No person shall operate engine or motor-powered lawn or maintenance
tools intended for use in residential areas, typically capable of being used by
homeowners such as power mowers, garden tools, riding tractors, power saws,
edgers and the like, which create a noise that exceed the fixed source noise
level as specified for continuous sound at the property line of the noise
source except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on weekdays and
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on weekends and legal holidays.
   (b)   Homeowners outdoor equipment shall have mufflers where applicable and
which are in good working condition.
   (c)   Snow blowers and snow plows are exempted from the time requirements of
this section when removing snow and ice.
(Ord. 88-151, passed 12-11-1989)
§ 511.10 CONSTRUCTION.
   No person shall use any pile driver, shovel, hammer derrick, hoist tractor,
roller or other mechanical apparatus operated by fuel or electric power in
building or construction between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., within a
residential area or within 500 feet of a school or hospital, except for
temporary conditions approved by the City Manager or Chief of Police or the
city’s authorized representative.
(Ord. 88-151, passed 12-11-1989)
§ 511.11 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following uses and activities shall be exempt from noise level
regulations:
   (a)   Noises of safety signals, warning devices and emergency pressure
relief valves;
   (b)   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency or public safety
vehicle, when responding to an emergency call or acting in time of emergency;
   (c)   Noises resulting from emergency work;
   (d)   Noises resulting from authorized public activities such as parades,
fireworks, sports events, musical productions and other activities which have
the approval of the department who has been authorized this responsibility by
Council; and
   (e)   Noises resulting from sports events authorized by the Board of
Education, private schools, colleges or universities.
(Ord. 88-151, passed 12-11-1989)
§ 511.12 FIXED SOURCE NOISE LEVELS.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) hereof, in Zoning Districts R-2, R-
2, R-3, R-6, R-7 on and after a date six months after effective date of this
chapter, in Zoning Districts B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, HT-1, O-1 on and after a date
12 months after the effective date of this chapter and in Zoning District I-
1 and I-2 on or after a date of 18 months after the effective date of this
chapter, no person shall operate any fixed machinery or equipment, or similar
mechanical device or perform any process in any manner so as to create any
noise which would cause the noise level measured at the property line of the
noise source to exceed the applicable fixed noise level in this section. Noise
limits shall not exceed the following (except as specified elsewhere) unless
the person has filed an application for variance in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
Zoning District Time Period Continuous Sound Level dbA
Zoning District    Time Period            Continuous Sound Level dbA
R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 10:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m. 50
                   7:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m. 60
R-6, R-7           10:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m. 60
                   7:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m. 65
B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4 10:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m. 65
HT-1, O-1          7:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m  70
I-1                anytime                70
I-2                anytime                75
 
   (b)   The provisions of division (a) hereof shall not be applicable to any
emergency signaling devices required by law; nor to any standby equipment
operated only in emergency situations, provided that such standby equipment
shall not emit noise at a level in excess of 75 dbA when measured at the
property line of the property whereon it is located.
(Ord. 88-151, passed 12-11-1989)
§ 511.13 WASTE DISPOSAL SERVICES.
   (a)   No person authorized to engage in waste disposal services or garbage
collection shall provide services so as to create an unnecessary amount of
noise. For the purpose of this section, noise emitted by equipment shall not be
deemed unnecessary or without justification if the person engaged in such
services has to the extent reasonable and feasible in the judgment of the City
Manager or Chief of Police or the city’s authorized representative,
incorporated available sound-deadening devices into equipment used in rendering
those services.
   (b)   No person authorized, shall engage in waste disposal services or
garbage loading and/or compacting equipment or similar mechanical device in any
manner so as to create any noise exceeding the following intermittent sound
levels when measured at a distance of 50 feet from the equipment when within
500 feet of a residential zone unless the person has filed an application for a
variance in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
 
                                                                       9:00 5:00
                                                                       p.m. a.m.
(1)   On or after a date one year after the effective date of this  - 5: - 9:
chapter.                                                               00   00
                                                                       a.m. p.m.
                                                                       80   87
                                                                       dbA  dbA
                                                                       9:00 5:00
                                                                       p.m. a.m.
(2)   On or after a date 48 months after the effective date of this - 5: - 9:
chapter.                                                               00   00
                                                                       a.m. p.m.
                                                                       80   82
                                                                       dbA  dbA
(3)   Impulsive sounds shall not exceed the levels specified in division (b)(1)
or (b)(2) hereof by more than five dbA
 
(Ord. 88-151, passed 12-11-1989)
Cross-reference:
   Rubbish and waste collection regulations, see §
961.01
§ 511.14 AMPLIFIED SOUND.
   No person, other than personnel of law enforcement governmental agencies,
utilities services, or permittees duly authorized, shall install, use or
operate within the city a loudspeaker or sound amplifying equipment in a fixed
or movable position, or mounted upon any sound truck for the purposes of giving
instructions, directions, talks, addresses, lectures or transmitting music to
any persons or assemblages of persons in or upon any public street, alley,
sidewalk, park, place or other public property except when installed, used or
operated in compliance with the following provisions.
   (a)   Residential zones and within 500 feet thereof:
      (1)   No fixed or movable sound amplifying equipment shall be installed,
operated or used for commercial purposes at any time except as otherwise
permitted in these codified ordinances; and
      (2)   The operation or use of sound amplifying equipment for
noncommercial purposes, except when used for regularly scheduled operative
functions by any school or for the usual and customary purposes of any church,
or as exempted under §
511.11, is prohibited between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. of the
following day.
   (b)   In all other zones, except the portions thereof, as may be included
within 500 feet of any residential zone:
      (1)   The operation or use of sound amplifying equipment for commercial
purpose is prohibited between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. of the
following day; and
      (2)   The operation or use of sound amplifying equipment for
noncommercial purposes is prohibited between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00
a.m. of the following day.
   (c)   The only sound permitted shall be either music, human speech, or both.
   (d)   Sound emanating from sound amplifying equipment shall be limited in
volume, tone and intensity so that the sound shall not be audible at a distance
in excess of 200 feet from the sound equipment.
   (e)   Except as provided in division (b) hereof, no sound amplifying
equipment shall be operated upon any property adjacent to and within 200 feet
of any hospital grounds, school or church building while in use.
(Ord. 88-151, passed 12-11-1989)
§ 511.15 COMPLIANCE PERIOD.
   (a)   The City Manager or Chief of Police or the city’s authorized
representative may grant individual compliance period variances (hereinafter
referred to as “variance”), beyond the limitation prescribed by this chapter,
whenever it is found upon presentation of adequate proof, that compliance with
any section of this chapter or with any regulation or order of the City Manager
or Chief of Police or the city’s authorized representative, in respect to this
chapter, would impose unreasonable hardship. In granting a variance, the City
Manager or Chief of Police or the city’s authorized representative may impose
such conditions as the policies of this chapter may require.
   (b)   Any variance granted pursuant to this section shall be granted for the
period of time, not exceeding one year, as specified by the City Manager or
Chief of Police or the city’s authorized representative at the time of the
grant of the variance and upon the conditions that the person who receives the
variance shall make such periodic progress reports as the City Manager or the
city’s authorized representative shall specify. The variance may be extended
for period of up to six months by affirmative action of the City Manager or
Chief of Police or the city’s authorized representative, but only if
satisfactory progress has been shown. The City Manager or Chief of Police or
the city’s authorized representative may in the case of construction, grant a
variance for the duration of the project. A contract letting agency, public or
private, may apply for this variance.
   (c)   If requested by the petitioner or if deemed desirable by the City
Manager or Chief of Police or the city’s authorized representative, a public
hearing shall be held prior to the issuance of any variance for the purpose of
allowing any person to present evidence with respect to the requested variance.
Notice of the hearing shall be promulgated by the City Manager or Chief of
Police or the city’s authorized representative in the form of a news release at
least ten days prior to the hearing.
   (d)   The petition shall be as established and set forth in the fee schedule
in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time.
   (e)   Government agencies are exempted from the payment of fees.
(Ord. 88-151, passed 12-11-1989)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 511.16 TEST PROCEDURES.
   Test procedures to determine whether maximum noise levels are exceeded in §§
511.08,
511.09,
511.12,
511.13 and
511.14 shall be in substantial conformity with ANSI Standard S1.4; ANSI
Standard S1.12, ANSI Standard S1.11; SAE Recommended Practice J184; and the
others that may be approved by the federal government, state government and/or
the City Manager or Chief of Police or the city’s authorized representative.
(Ord. 88-151, passed 12-11-1989)
§ 511.17 APPEALS.
   Any person who is the subject of a final order by the City Manager or Chief
of Police or the city’s authorized representative and who has not been
criminally charged under the provisions of this chapter shall have the right to
a review of the order by Council.
(Ord. 88-151, passed 12-11-1989)
§ 511.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. Each day the violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
Citations shall be issued to a person, firm or corporation and/or individual
present at the time of the alleged offense.
(Ord. 88-151, passed 12-11-1989)
CHAPTER 513: DRUG ABUSE CONTROL
Section
513.01   Definitions
513.02   Trafficking in controlled substances; gift of marihuana
513.03   Drug possession offenses
513.04   Possession of drug abuse instruments
513.05   Permitting drug abuse
513.06   Cultivation of marihuana
513.07   Abusing harmful intoxicants
513.08   Illegal dispensing of drug samples
513.09   Controlled substance or prescription labels
513.10   Possession, sale and disposal of hypodermics
513.11   Possessing nitrous oxide in motor vehicles
513.12   Use or possession of paraphernalia
513.13   Counterfeit controlled substances
513.14   Sale and use of “toxic glue”
513.15   Pseudoephedrine sales
513.16   Improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide
513.17   Evidence
513.18   Double jeopardy
513.19   Controlled substance schedules
513.20   Sale of pure caffeine product
513.21   Sale of dextromethorphan
513.22   Adult use cannabis control; limitations on conduct by individuals
513.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Adulterating food with drug of abuse, see §
537.13
   Using weapons while under the influence, see §
549.03
Statutory reference:
   Analysis report and notarized statement as evidence, see R.C. § 2925.51
   Criteria for granting probation, see R.C. § 3719.70(B)
   Federal prosecution bar to local prosecution, see R.C. § 2925.50, 3719.19
§ 513.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words,
terms and phrases and their derivatives used in this chapter which are not
defined in this section shall have the meanings given to them in the Ohio
Revised Code.
   (a)   ADMINISTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (b)   ADULTERATE. To cause a drug to be adulterated as described in R.C. §
3715.63.
   (c)   ALCOHOL AND DRUG ADDICTION SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5119.01.
   (d)   BULK AMOUNT. Of a controlled substance means any of the following:
      (1)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in
Schedule I, Schedule II, or Schedule III, with the exception of any controlled
substance analog, marihuana, cocaine, L.S.D., heroin, any fentanyl-related
compound, and hashish and except as provided in division (2), (5), or (6) of
this definition, whichever of the following is applicable:
         A.   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams or 25 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I opiate or opium derivative;
         B.   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams of a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of raw or gum opium;
         C.   An amount equal to or exceeding 30 grams or ten unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I hallucinogen other than tetrahydrocannabinol or lysergic acid
amide, or a Schedule I stimulant or depressant;
         D.   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II opiate or opium
derivative;
         E.   An amount equal to or exceeding five grams or ten unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
phencyclidine;
         F.   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule II stimulant that is in a final dosage form
manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse control laws,
as defined in this section, that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II
depressant substance or a Schedule II hallucinogenic substance;
         G.   An amount equal to or exceeding three grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule
II stimulant, or any of its salts or isomers, that is not in a final dosage
form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse
control laws;
      (2)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III or IV substance other than an anabolic
steroid or a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (3)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (4)   An amount equal to or exceeding 250 milliliters or 250 grams of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule V substance;
      (5)   An amount equal to or exceeding 200 solid dosage units, 16 grams,
or 16 milliliters of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III anabolic steroid;
      (6)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is a
combination of a fentanyl- related compound and any other compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
if the defendant is charged with a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 and the
sentencing provisions set forth in R.C. § 2925.11(C)(10)(b) and (C)(11) will
not apply regarding the defendant and the violation, the bulk amount of the
controlled substance for purposes of the violation is the amount specified in
division (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this definition for the other Schedule
III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is combined with the
fentanyl-related compound.
   (e)   CERTIFIED GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE. A duly constituted and organized
committee of the Ohio State Bar Association or of one or more local bar
associations of the state that complies with the criteria set forth in Rule V,
Section 6 of the Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   (f)   COCAINE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A cocaine salt, isomer, or derivative, a salt of a cocaine isomer
or derivative, or the base form of cocaine.
      (2)   Coca leaves or a salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of coca
leaves, including ecgonine, a salt, isomer, or derivative of ecgonine, or a
salt of an isomer or derivative of ecgonine.
      (3)   A salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of a substance
identified in division (1) or (2) of this definition that is chemically
equivalent to or identical with any of those substances, except that the
substances shall not include decocainized coca leaves or extraction of coca
leaves if the extractions do not contain cocaine or ecgonine.
   (g)   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A JUVENILE. An offense is “committed in
the vicinity of a juvenile” if the offender commits the offense within 100 feet
of a juvenile or within the view of a juvenile, regardless of whether the
offender knows the age of the juvenile, whether the offender knows the offense
is being committed within 100 feet of or within view of the juvenile, or
whether the juvenile actually views the commission of the offense.
   (h)   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a school” if the offender commits the offense on school premises,
in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the boundaries of any school
premises, regardless of whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed on school premises, in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the
boundaries of any school premises.
   (i)   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER
OR A RECOVERING ADDICT. An offense is “committed in the vicinity of a substance
addiction services provider or a recovering addict” if either of the following
apply:
      (1)   The offender commits the offense on the premises of a substance
addiction services provider’s facility, including a facility licensed prior to
June 29, 2019, under R.C. § 5119.391 to provide methadone treatment or an
opioid treatment program licensed on or after that date under R.C. § 5119.37,
or within 500 feet of the premises of a substance addiction services provider’s
facility and the offender knows or should know that the offense is being
committed within the vicinity of the substance addiction services provider’s
facility.
      (2)   The offender sells, offers to sell, delivers, or distributes the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog to a person who is
receiving treatment at the time of the commission of the offense, or received
treatment within 30 days prior to the commission of the offense, from a
substance addiction services provider and the offender knows that the person is
receiving or received that treatment.
   (j)   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (k)   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ANALOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
3719.01.
   (l)   COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drug that bears, or whose container or label bears, a
trademark, trade name, or other identifying mark used without authorization of
the owner of rights to the trademark, trade name, or identifying mark.
      (2)   Any unmarked or unlabeled substance that is represented to be a
controlled substance manufactured, processed, packed, or distributed by a
person other than the person that manufactured, processed, packed, or
distributed it.
      (3)   Any substance that is represented to be a controlled substance but
is not a controlled substance or is a different controlled substance.
      (4)   Any substance other than a controlled substance that a reasonable
person would believe to be a controlled substance because of its similarity in
shape, size, and color, or its markings, labeling, packaging, distribution, or
the price for which it is sold or offered for sale.
   (m)   CULTIVATE. Includes planting, watering, fertilizing or tilling.
   (n)   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (o)   DECEPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (p)   DISCIPLINARY COUNSEL. The disciplinary counsel appointed by the Board
of Commissioners on Grievances and Discipline of the Ohio Supreme Court under
the Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   (q)   DISPENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (r)   DISTRIBUTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (s)   DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (t)   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2913.02(A) that constitutes theft of drugs,
or any violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.041, 2925.05,
2925.06, 2925.11, 2925.12, 2925.13, 2925.22, 2925.23, 2925.24, 2925.31,
2925.32, 2925.36, or 2925.37.
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state or of the United States, that is substantially equivalent to
any section listed in division (1) of this definition.
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state, or of the United States, of which planting, cultivating,
harvesting, processing, making, manufacturing, producing, shipping,
transporting, delivering, acquiring, possessing, storing, distributing,
dispensing, selling, inducing another to use, administering to another, using,
or otherwise dealing with a controlled substance is an element.
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing or attempting to commit, any offense under division (1), (2), or (3)
of this definition.
   (u)   DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   (v)   FELONY DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any drug abuse offense that would
constitute a felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the
United States.
   (w)   FENTANYL-RELATED COMPOUND. Any of the following:
      (1)   Fentanyl;
      (2)   Alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1- (alpha-methyl-beta-phenyl)ethyl-4-
piperidyl] propionanilide; 1-(1-methyl-2-phenylethyl)-4-(N- propanilido)
piperidine);
      (3)   Alpha-methylthiofentanyl (N-[1-methyl-2-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylpropanamide);
      (4)   Beta-hydroxyfentanyl (N-[1- (2-hydroxy-2-phenethyl-4-piperidinyl]-
N- phenylpropanamide);
      (5)   Beta-hydroxy-3- methylfentanyl (other name: N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-
phenethyl)-3-methyl-4-piperidinyl]-N- phenylpropanamide);
      (6)   3-methylfentanyl (N-[3- methyl-1-(2-phenylethyl)-4-piperidyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (7)   3-methylthiofentanyl (N-[3- methyl-1-[2-(thienyl)ethyl]-4-
piperidinyl]- phenylpropanamide);
      (8)   Para-fluorofentanyl (N-(4- fluorophenyl)-N-[1-(2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]propanamide;
      (9)   Thiofentanyl (N-phenyl-N- [1-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-piperidinyl]-
propanamide;
      (10)   Alfentanil;
      (11)   Carfentanil;
      (12)   Remifentanil;
      (13)   Sufentanil;
      (14)   Acetyl-alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(1-methyl-2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylacetamide); and
      (15)   Any compound that meets all of the following fentanyl
pharmacophore requirements to bind at the mu receptor, as identified by a
report from an established forensic laboratory, including acetylfentanyl,
furanylfentanyl, valerylfentanyl, butyrylfentanyl, isobutyrylfentanyl, 4-
methoxybutyrylfentanyl, para-fluorobutyrylfentanyl, acrylfentanyl, and ortho-
fluorofentanyl:
         A.   A chemical scaffold consisting of both of the following:
            1.   A five, six, or seven member ring structure containing a
nitrogen, whether or not further substituted;
            2.   An attached nitrogen to the ring, whether or not that nitrogen
is enclosed in a ring structure, including an attached aromatic ring or other
lipophilic group to that nitrogen.
         B.   A polar functional group attached to the chemical scaffold,
including but not limited to a hydroxyl, ketone, amide, or ester;
         C.   An alkyl or aryl substitution off the ring nitrogen of the
chemical scaffold; and
         D.   The compound has not been approved for medical use by the United
States food and drug administration.
   (x)   HARMFUL INTOXICANT. Does not include beer or intoxicating liquor, but
means any of the following:
      (1)   Any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance the gas, fumes, or
vapor of which when inhaled can induce intoxication, excitement, giddiness,
irrational behavior, depression, stupefaction, paralysis, unconscious- ness,
asphyxiation, or other harmful physiological effects, and includes but is not
limited to any of the following:
         A.   Any volatile organic solvent, plastic cement, model cement,
fingernail polish remover, lacquer thinner, cleaning fluid, gasoline, or other
preparation containing a volatile organic solvent.
         B.   Any aerosol propellant.
         C.   Any fluorocarbon refrigerant.
         D.   Any anesthetic gas.
      (2)   Gamma Butyrolactone;
      (3)   1,4 Butanediol.
   (y)   HASHISH.
      (1)   A resin or a preparation of a resin to which both of the following
apply:
         A.   It is contained in or derived from any part of the plant of the
genus cannabis, whether in solid form or in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form.
         B.   It has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of more than
0.3%.
      (2)   The term does not include a hemp byproduct in the possession of a
licensed hemp processor under R.C. Chapter 928, provided that the hemp
byproduct is being produced, stored, and disposed of in accordance with rules
adopted under R.C. § 928.03.
   (z)   HYPODERMIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (aa)   JUVENILE. A person under 18 years of age.
   (bb)   LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (cc)   L.S.D. Lysergic acid diethylamide.
   (dd)   MAJOR DRUG OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (ee)   MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (ff)   MANUFACTURE. To plant, cultivate, harvest, process, make, prepare, or
otherwise engage in any part of the production of a drug, by propagation,
extraction, chemical synthesis, or compounding, or any combination of the same,
and includes packaging, repackaging, labeling, and other activities incident to
production.
   (gg)   MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (hh)   MARIHUANA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01, except that it
does not include hashish.
   (ii)   METHAMPHETAMINE. Methampheta-mine, any salt, isomer, or salt of an
isomer of methamphetamine, or any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance
containing meth-amphetamine or any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of
methamphetamine.
   (jj)   MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. Either of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996,
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it exists on and after July 1,
1996, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that is a misdemeanor
or a felony of the fifth degree.
   (kk)   OFFICIAL WRITTEN ORDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (ll)   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (mm)   PERSON WITH A DRUG DEPENDENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
3719.011.
   (nn)   PHARMACIST. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (oo)   PHARMACY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (pp)   POSSESS or POSSESSION. Having control over a thing or substance but
may not be inferred solely from mere access to the thing or substance through
ownership or occupation of the premises upon which the thing or substance is
found.
   (qq)   “Premises of a substance addiction services provider's facility.”
Means the parcel of real property on which any substance addiction service
provider’s facility is situated.
   (rr)   PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (ss)   PRESUMPTION FOR A PRISON TERM or PRESUMPTION THAT A PRISON TERM SHALL
BE IMPOSED. A presumption as described in R.C. § 2929.13(D) that a prison term
is a necessary sanction for a felony in order to comply with the purposes and
principles of sentencing under R.C. § 2929.11.
   (tt)   PROFESSIONAL LICENSE. Any license, permit, certificate, registration,
qualification, admission, temporary license, temporary permit, temporary
certificate, or temporary registration that is described in R.C. § 2925.01(W)
(1) through (W)(37) and that qualifies a person as a professionally licensed
person.
   (uu)   PROFESSIONALLY LICENSED PERSON. Any of the following:
      (1)   A person who has received a certificate or temporary certificate as
a certified public accountant or who has registered as a public accountant
under R.C. Chapter 4701 and who holds an Ohio permit issued under that chapter;
      (2)   A person who holds a certificate of qualification to practice
architecture issued or renewed and registered under R.C. Chapter 4703;
      (3)   A person who is registered as a landscape architect under R.C.
Chapter 4703 or who holds a permit as a landscape architect issued under that
chapter;
      (4)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4707;
      (5)   A person who has been issued a certificate of registration as a
registered barber under R.C. Chapter 4709;
      (6)   A person licensed and regulated to engage in the business of a debt
pooling company by a legislative authority, under authority of R.C. Chapter
4710;
      (7)   A person who has been issued a cosmetologist’s license, hair
designer’s license, manicurist’s license, esthetician’s license, natural hair
stylist’s license, advanced cosmetologist’s license, advanced hair designer’s
license, advanced manicurist’s license, advanced esthetician’s license,
advanced natural hair stylist’s license, cosmetology instructor’s license, hair
design instructor’s license, manicurist instructor’s license, esthetics
instructor’s license, natural hair style instructor’s license, independent
contractor’s license, or tanning facility permit under R.C. Chapter 4713;
      (8)   A person who has been issued a license to practice dentistry, a
general anesthesia permit, a conscious sedation permit, a limited resident’s
license, a limited teaching license, a dental hygienist’s license, or a dental
hygienist’s teacher’s certificate under R.C. Chapter 4715;
      (9)   A person who has been issued an embalmer’s license, a funeral
director’s license, a funeral home license, or a crematory license, or who has
been registered for an embalmer’s or funeral director’s apprenticeship under
R.C. Chapter 4717;
      (10)   A person who has been licensed as a registered nurse or practical
nurse, or who has been issued a certificate for the practice of nurse-midwifery
under R.C. Chapter 4723;
      (11)   A person who has been licensed to practice optometry or to engage
in optical dispensing under R.C. Chapter 4725;
      (12)   A person licensed to act as a pawnbroker under R.C. Chapter 4727;
      (13)   A person licensed to act as a precious metals dealer under R.C.
Chapter 4728;
      (14)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a pharmacist or
pharmacy intern or registered under that chapter as a registered pharmacy
technician, certified pharmacy technician, or pharmacy technician trainee;
      (15)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a manufacturer of
dangerous drugs, outsourcing facility, third-party logistics provider,
repackager of dangerous drugs, wholesale distributor of dangerous drugs, or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
      (16)   A person who is authorized to practice as a physician assistant
under R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (17)   A person who has been issued a license to practice medicine and
surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, or podiatric medicine and surgery
under R.C. Chapter 4731 or has been issued a certificate to practice a limited
branch of medicine under that chapter;
      (18)   A person licensed as a psychologist, independent school
psychologist, or school psychologist under R.C. Chapter 4732;
      (19)   A person registered to practice the profession of engineering or
surveying under R.C. Chapter 4733;
      (20)   A person who has been issued a license to practice chiropractic
under R.C. Chapter 4734;
      (21)   A person licensed to act as a real estate broker or real estate
salesperson under R.C. Chapter 4735;
      (22)   A person registered as a registered environmental health
specialist under R.C. Chapter 3776;
      (23)   A person licensed to operate or maintain a junkyard under R.C.
Chapter 4737;
      (24)   A person who has been issued a motor vehicle salvage dealer’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4738;
      (25)   A person who has been licensed to act as a steam engineer under
R.C. Chapter 4739;
      (26)   A person who has been issued a license or temporary permit to
practice veterinary medicine or any of its branches, or who is registered as a
graduate animal technician under R.C. Chapter 4741;
      (27)   A person who has been issued a hearing aid dealer’s or fitter’s
license or trainee permit under R.C. Chapter 4747;
      (28)   A person who has been issued a class A, class B, or class C
license or who has been registered as an investigator or security guard
employee under R.C. Chapter 4749;
      (29)   A person licensed to practice as a nursing home administrator
under R.C. Chapter 4751;
      (30)   A person licensed to practice as a speech-language pathologist or
audiologist under R.C. Chapter 4753;
      (31)   A person issued a license as an occupational therapist or physical
therapist under R.C. Chapter 4755;
      (32)   A person who is licensed as a licensed professional clinical
counselor, licensed professional counselor, social worker, independent social
worker, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage and family
therapist, or registered as a social work assistant under R.C. Chapter 4757;
      (33)   A person issued a license to practice dietetics under R.C. Chapter
4759;
      (34)   A person who has been issued a license or limited permit to
practice respiratory therapy under R.C. Chapter 4761;
      (35)   A person who has been issued a real estate appraiser certificate
under R.C. Chapter 4763;
      (36)   A person who has been issued a home inspector license under R.C.
Chapter 4764;
      (37)   A person who has been admitted to the bar by order of the Ohio
Supreme Court in compliance with its prescribed and published rules.
   (vv)   PUBLIC PREMISES. Any hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall,
or other place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort.
   (ww)   SALE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (xx)   SAMPLE DRUG. A drug or pharmaceutical preparation that would be
hazardous to health or safety if used without the supervision of a licensed
health professional authorized to prescribe drugs, or a drug of abuse, and
that, at one time, had been placed in a container plainly marked as a sample by
a manufacturer.
   (yy)   SCHEDULE I, SCHEDULE II, SCHEDULE III, SCHEDULE IV or SCHEDULE V.
Have the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (zz)   SCHOOL. Any school operated by a board of education, any community
school established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or any nonpublic school for which
the Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C.
§ 3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities or
training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a criminal
offense is committed.
   (aaa)   SCHOOL BUILDING. Any building in which any of the instruction,
extracurricular activities, or training provided by a school is conducted,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted in the school building at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
   (bbb)   SCHOOL PREMISES. Either of the following:
      (1)   The parcel of real property on which any school is situated,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted on the premises at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
      (2)   Any other parcel of real property that is owned or leased by a
board of education of a school, the governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or the governing body of a nonpublic
school for which the Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum
standards under R.C. § 3301.07 and on which some of the instruction,
extracurricular activities or training of the school is conducted, whether or
not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training provided by the
school is being conducted on the parcel of real property at the time a criminal
offense is committed.
   (ccc)   STANDARD PHARMACEUTICAL REFERENCE MANUAL. The current edition, with
cumulative changes if any, of references that are approved by the State Board
of Pharmacy.
   (ddd)   SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Means an agency, association,
corporation or other legal entity, individual, or program that provides one or
more of the following at a facility:
      (1)   Either alcohol addiction services, or drug addiction services, or
both such    services that are certified by the Ohio Director of Mental Health
and Addiction Services under R.C. § 5119.36;
      (2)   Recovery supports that are related to either alcohol addiction
services, or drug addiction services, or both such services and paid for with
federal, state, or local funds administered by the Ohio Department of Mental
Health and Addiction Services or a board of alcohol, drug addiction, and mental
health services.
   (eee)   UNIT DOSE. An amount or unit or a compound, mixture, or preparation
containing a controlled substance that is separately identifiable and in a form
that indicates that it is the amount or unit by which the controlled substance
is separately administered to or taken by an individual.
   (fff)   WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
(R.C. § 2925.01)
§ 513.02 TRAFFICKING IN CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES; GIFT OF MARIHUANA.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Sell or offer to sell a controlled substance or a controlled
substance analog;
      (2)   Prepare for shipment, ship, transport, deliver, prepare for
distribution or distribute a controlled substance or a controlled substance
analog, when the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
controlled substance or a controlled substance analog, is intended for sale or
resale by the offender or another person.
   (b)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731
and 4741.
      (2)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
      (3)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the Federal Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended), and is sold, offered for
sale, prescribed, dispensed or administered for that purpose in accordance with
that Act.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this
section, trafficking in controlled substances is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the offense
involves a gift of 20 grams or less of marihuana, trafficking in marihuana is a
minor misdemeanor upon a first offense and a misdemeanor of the third degree
upon a subsequent offense. If the offense involves a gift of 20 grams or less
of marihuana and if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, trafficking in marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl- related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(3)B. of this
section, the offender is guilty of trafficking in marihuana and shall be
punished under division (c)(2) of this section. The offender is not guilty of
trafficking in a fentanyl-related compound and shall not be charged with,
convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9) for trafficking in a
fentanyl-related compound.
         B.   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of trafficking in a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9).
   (d)   As used in this section, DRUG includes any substance that is
represented to be a drug.
(R.C. § 2925.03(A) - (C), (I))
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug trafficking offenses, see R.C. § 2925.03(C)
§ 513.03 DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSES.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly obtain, possess or use a controlled
substance or a controlled substance analog.
   (b)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         A.   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731
and 4741.
         B.   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
         C.   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the Federal Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act, and is sold, offered for sale, prescribed, dispensed or
administered for that purpose in accordance with that Act.
         D.   Any person who obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs if the prescription was issued for a legitimate medical purpose and not
altered, forged, or obtained through deception or commission of a theft
offense. As used in this division (b)(1)D., “deception” and “theft offense”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (2)   A.   As used in division (b)(2) of this section:
            1.    COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning
as in R.C. § 5119.01.
            2.    COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 2929.01
            3.   HEALTH CARE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2919.16.
            4.   MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. A violation of this section or
R.C. § 2925.11 that is a misdemeanor or a felony of the fifth degree.
            5.   PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
            6.    POST-RELEASE CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2967.28.
            7.   PUBLIC AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
            8.   QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL. A person who is acting in good faith who
seeks or obtains medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a
drug overdose, a person who experiences a drug overdose and who seeks medical
assistance for that overdose, or a person who is the subject of another person
seeking or obtaining medical assistance for that overdose as described in
division (b)(2)B. of this section.
            9.   SEEK OR OBTAIN MEDICAL ASSISTANCE. Includes, but is not
limited to making a 9-1-1 call,  contacting in person or by telephone call an
on-duty peace officer, or transporting or presenting a person to a health care
facility.
         B.   Subject to division (b)(2)E. of this section, a qualified
individual shall not be arrested, charged, prosecuted, convicted, or penalized
pursuant to this chapter for a minor drug possession offense or a violation of
R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141 if all of the
following apply:
            1.   The evidence of the obtaining, possession, or use of the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog, drug abuse instruments, or
drug paraphernalia that would be the basis of the offense was obtained as a
result of the qualified individual seeking the medical assistance or
experiencing an overdose and needing medical assistance.
            2.   Subject to division (b)(2)F. of this section, within 30 days
after seeking or obtaining the medical assistance, the qualified individual
seeks and obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment from a
community addiction services provider or a properly credentialed addiction
treatment professional.
            3.   Subject to division (b)(2)F. of this section, the qualified
individual who obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment under
division (b)(2)B.2. of this section, upon the request of any prosecuting
attorney, submits documentation to the prosecuting attorney that verifies that
the qualified individual satisfied the requirements of that division. The
documentation shall be limited to the date and time of the screening obtained
and referral received.
         C.   If a person who is serving a community control sanction or is
under a sanction on post-release control acts pursuant to division (b)(2)B. of
this section, then R.C. § 2929.141(B), R.C. § 2929.15(B)(2), R.C. § 2929.25(D)
(3), or R.C. § 2967.28(F)(3) applies to the person with respect to any
violation of the sanction or post-release control sanction based on a minor
drug possession offense, as defined in R.C. § 2925.11, or a violation of R.C. §
2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141.
         D.   Nothing in division (b)(2)B. of this section shall be construed
to do any of the following:
            1.   Limit the admissibility of any evidence in connection with the
investigation or prosecution of a crime with regards to a defendant who does
not qualify for the protections of division (b)(2)B. of this section or with
regards to any crime other than a minor drug possession offense or a violation
of R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141 committed by a
person who qualifies for protection pursuant to division (b)(2)B. of this
section;
            2.   Limit any seizure of evidence or contraband otherwise
permitted by law;
            3.   Limit or abridge the authority of a peace officer to detain or
take into custody a person in the course of an investigation or to effectuate
an arrest for any offense except as provided in that division;
            4.   Limit, modify, or remove any immunity from liability available
pursuant to law in effect prior to September 13, 2016 to any public agency or
to an employee of any public agency.
         E.   Division (b)(2)B. of this section does not apply to any person
who twice previously has been granted an immunity under division (b)(2)B. of
this section. No person shall be granted an immunity under division (b)(2)B. of
this section more than two times.
         F.   Nothing in this section shall compel any qualified individual to
disclose protected health information in a way that conflicts with the
requirements of the “Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996”, 104 Pub. L. No. 191, 110 Stat. 2021, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320d et seq., as
amended, and regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Health
and Human Services to implement the act or the requirements of 42 C.F.R. Part
2.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana or hashish, whoever violates division (a) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of possession of drugs.
The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(2)B. of this
section, possession of drugs is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the
offender previously has been convicted of a drug abuse offense, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         B.   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds the bulk
amount, possession of drugs is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is marihuana or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing marihuana other than hashish,
whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of possession of
marihuana. The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(3)B. or (c)(3)C. of
this section, possession of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor.
         B.   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 100 grams
but is less than 200 grams, possession of marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
         C.   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
possession of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (4)   If the drug involved in the violation is hashish or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing hashish, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of possession of hashish. The penalty
for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(4)B. or (c)(4)C. of
this section, possession of hashish is a minor misdemeanor.
         B.   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds five grams
but is less than ten grams of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds one
gram but is less than two grams of hashish in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of hashish is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         C.   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds ten grams of
hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds two grams of hashish in a liquid
concentrate, liquid extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of hashish
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl- related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(5)B. of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of marihuana and shall be
punished as provided in division (c)(3) of this section. Except as otherwise
provided in division (c)(5)B. of this section, the offender is not guilty of
possession of a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall
not be charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         B.   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
      (6)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl- related compound
and any Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is
not a fentanyl-related compound, one of the following applies:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(6)B. of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of drugs and shall be punished as
provided in division (c)(2) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in
division (c)(6)B. of this section, the offender is not guilty of possession of
a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall not be
charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         B.   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
   (d)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
   (e)   (1)   In addition to any prison term or jail term authorized or
required by division (c) of this section and R.C.    §§ 2929.13, 2929.14,
2929.22, 2929.24 and 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and in addition to any other sanction that is imposed for the
offense under this section or R.C. §§ 2929.11 through 2929.18, or R.C. §§
2929.21 to 2929.28, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
court that sentences an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of division (a) of this section may suspend the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. However,
if the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years.
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
   (f)   (1)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
similar municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States that
arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
      (2)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (f) of this section, the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.11)
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug possession offenses, see R.C. § 2925.11(C)
§ 513.04 POSSESSION OF DRUG ABUSE INSTRUMENTS.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly make, obtain, possess or use any instrument,
article or thing the customary and primary purpose of which is for the
administration or use of a dangerous drug, other than marihuana, when the
instrument involved is a hypodermic or syringe, whether or not of crude or
extemporized manufacture or assembly, and the instrument, article or thing
involved has been used by the offender to unlawfully administer or use a
dangerous drug, other than marihuana, or to prepare a dangerous drug, other
than marihuana, for unlawful administration or use.
   (b)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies
and other persons whose conduct was in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719,
4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731 and 4741.
      (2)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of this section when a person seeks or obtains medical assistance for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a person experiences a drug
overdose and seeks medical assistance for that overdose, or a person is the
subject of another person seeking or obtaining medical assistance for that
overdose.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing drug abuse
instruments, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, violation of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (d)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was    convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   A.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         B.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (d)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.12)
§ 513.05 PERMITTING DRUG ABUSE.
   (a)   No person who is the owner, operator or person in charge of a
locomotive, watercraft, aircraft or other vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, shall knowingly permit the vehicle to be used for the commission of a
felony drug abuse offense.
   (b)   No person, who is the owner, lessee or occupant, or who has custody,
control or supervision of premises, or real estate, including vacant land,
shall knowingly permit his or her premises, or real estate, including vacant
land, to be used for the commission of a felony drug abuse offense by another
person.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting drug abuse.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(2) of this section, permitting
drug abuse is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Permitting drug abuse is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the felony drug abuse offense in question is a
violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, or 2925.04, or if the felony drug abuse
offense in question is a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 and the offender had
actual knowledge, at the time the offender permitted the vehicle, premises, or
real estate to be used as described in division (a) or (b) of this section,
that the person who assembled or possessed the chemicals in question in
violation of R.C. § 2925.041 had assembled or possessed them with the intent to
manufacture a controlled substance in Schedule I or Schedule II in violation of
R.C. § 2925.04.
   (d)   Any premises or real estate that is permitted to be used in violation
of division (b) of this section constitutes a nuisance subject to abatement
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2925.13(A) - (C), (F))
§ 513.06 CULTIVATION OF MARIHUANA.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly cultivate marihuana.
   (b)   This section does not apply to any person listed in R.C. § 2925.03(B)
(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, to
the extent and under the circumstances described in that division.
   (c)   Whoever commits a violation of division (a) of this section is guilty
of illegal cultivation of marihuana.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in the following divisions, illegal
cultivation of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor or, if the offense was
committed in the vicinity of a school or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 100 grams but
is less than 200 grams, illegal cultivation of marihuana is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree or, if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school
or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
illegal cultivation of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (d)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
(R.C. § 2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G))
§ 513.07 ABUSING HARMFUL INTOXICANTS.
   (a)   Except for lawful research, clinical, medical, dental or veterinary
purposes, no person, with purpose to induce intoxication or similar
physiological effects, shall obtain, possess or use a harmful intoxicant.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abusing harmful
intoxicants, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, abusing harmful intoxicants is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (c)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   A.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to the September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         B.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (c)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.31)
§ 513.08 ILLEGALLY DISPENSING OF DRUG SAMPLES.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly furnish a sample drug to another person.
   (b)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to manufacturers,
wholesalers, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, licensed health professionals
authorized to prescribe drugs, and other persons whose conduct is in accordance
with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4725, 4729, 4730, 4731 and 4741.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal dispensing of
drug samples.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the offense is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the offense is a dangerous drug or a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule
IV or Schedule V, or is marihuana, the penalty for the offense shall be
determined as follows:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in the following division, illegal
dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         B.   If the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2925.36(A) - (C))
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 2925.36(C)(2)
§ 513.09 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE OR PRESCRIPTION LABELS.
   (a)   Whenever a manufacturer sells a controlled substance, and whenever a
wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility sells a controlled substance in
a package the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility has prepared, the
manufacturer or the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility, as the
case may be, shall securely affix to each package in which the controlled
substance is contained a label showing in legible English the name and address
of the vendor and the quantity, kind, and form of controlled substance
contained therein. No person, except a pharmacist for the purpose of dispensing
a controlled substance upon a prescription shall alter, deface, or remove any
label so affixed. As used in this division, “repackager” and “outsourcing
facility” have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (b)   No person shall alter, deface or remove any label affixed pursuant to
R.C. § 3719.08 as long as any of the original contents remain.
(R.C. § 3719.08(A), (E))
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, or R.C. § 3719.07 or § 3719.08, or a drug abuse offense, a violation
of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If
the violation involves the sale, offer to sell, or possession of a Schedule I
or Schedule II controlled substance, with the exception of marihuana, and if
the offender, as a result of the violation, is a major drug offender, then R.C.
§ 3719.99(D) applies.
(R.C. § 3719.99(C))
§ 513.10 POSSESSION, SALE AND DISPOSAL OF HYPODERMICS.
   (a)   Possession of a hypodermic is authorized for the following:
      (1)   A manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in hypodermics, or
medication packaged in hypodermics, and any authorized agent of employee of
that manufacturer, distributor or dealer, in the regular course of business;
      (2)   A terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, in the regular course of
business;
      (3)   A person authorized to administer injections, in the regular course
of the person’s profession or employment;
      (4)   A person, when the hypodermic in his or her possession was lawfully
obtained and is kept and used for the purpose of self-administration of insulin
or other drug prescribed for the treatment of disease by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs;
      (5)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for legal research, clinical,
educational or medicinal purposes;
      (6)   A farmer, for the lawful administration of a drug to an animal;
      (7)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for lawful professional,
mechanical, trade or craft purposes.
   (b)   No manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in, hypodermics or
medication packaged in hypodermics, or their authorized agents or employees,
and no terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall display any hypodermic for
sale. No person authorized to possess a hypodermic pursuant to division (a) of
this section shall negligently fail to take reasonable precautions to prevent
any hypodermic in the person’s possession from theft or acquisition by any
unauthorized person.
(R.C. § 3719.172(A), (B))
   (c)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (b) of this section, R.C. § 3719.05, § 3719.06, §
3719.13, § 3719.172(B) or § 3719.31, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
division (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 3719.99(E))
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 3719.172(C), (D)
§ 513.11 POSSESSING NITROUS OXIDE IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (a)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET AND HIGHWAY have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (b)   Unless authorized by these codified ordinances or by state law, no
person shall possess an open cartridge of nitrous oxide in either of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   While operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on a
street, highway or other public or private property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking.
      (2)   While being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on a street,
highway or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing nitrous oxide in
a motor vehicle, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (d)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for
possessing nitrous oxide in a motor vehicle, the court may suspend for not more
than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit.
(R.C. § 2925.33)
§ 513.12 USE OR POSSESSION OF PARAPHERNALIA.
   (a)   As used in this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means any equipment,
product or material of any kind that is used by the offender, intended by the
offender for use or designed for use in propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the
human body, a controlled substance in violation of this chapter. DRUG
PARAPHERNALIA includes but is not limited to any of the following equipment,
products or materials that are used by the offender, intended by the offender
for use, or designed by the offender for use, in any of the following manners:
      (1)   A kit for propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting any
species of a plant that is a controlled substance or from which a controlled
substance can be derived.
      (2)   A kit for manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing or preparing a controlled substance.
      (3)   Any object, instrument or device for manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing or preparing methamphetamine.
      (4)   An isomerization device for increasing the potency of any species
of a plant that is a controlled substance.
      (5)   Testing equipment for identifying, or analyzing the strength,
effectiveness, or purity of, a controlled substance, except for those exempted
in division (d)(4) of this section;
      (6)   A scale or balance for weighing or measuring a controlled
substance.
      (7)   A diluent or adulterant, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose or lactose, for cutting a controlled substance.
      (8)   A separation gin or sifter for removing twigs and seeds from, or
otherwise cleaning or refining, marihuana.
      (9)   A blender, bowl, container, spoon or mixing device for compounding
a controlled substance.
      (10)   A capsule, balloon, envelope or container for packaging small
quantities of a controlled substance.
      (11)   A container or device for storing or concealing a controlled
substance.
      (12)   A hypodermic syringe, needle or instrument for parenterally
injecting a controlled substance into the human body.
      (13)   An object, instrument or device for ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing into the human body, marihuana, cocaine, hashish or
hashish oil, such as a metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic
pipe, with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head or punctured
metal bowl; water pipe; carburetion tube or device; smoking or carburetion
mask; roach clip or similar object used to hold burning material, such as a
marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in the
hand; miniature cocaine spoon, or cocaine vial; chamber pipe; carburetor pipe;
electric pipe; air driver pipe; chillum; bong; or ice pipe or chiller.
   (b)   In determining if any equipment, product or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   Any statement by the owner or by anyone in control of the
equipment, product or material, concerning its use.
      (2)   The proximity in time or space of the equipment, product or
material, or of the act relating to the equipment, product or material, to a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2925.
      (3)   The proximity of the equipment, product or material to any
controlled substance.
      (4)   The existence of any residue of a controlled substance on the
equipment, product or material.
      (5)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control, of the equipment, product or material, to deliver it to any
person whom he or she knows intends to use the equipment, product or material
to facilitate a violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter
2925. A finding that the owner or anyone in control of the equipment, product
or material is not guilty of a violation of any other provision of this chapter
or R.C. Chapter 2925 does not prevent a finding that the equipment, product or
material was intended or designed by the offender for use as drug
paraphernalia.
      (6)   Any oral or written instruction provided with the equipment,
product or material concerning its use.
      (7)   Any descriptive material accompanying the equipment, product or
material and explaining or depicting its use.
      (8)   National or local advertising concerning the use of the equipment,
product or material.
      (9)   The manner and circumstances in which the equipment, product or
material is displayed for sale.
      (10)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of the sales of the
equipment, product or material to the total sales of the business enterprise.
      (11)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses of the equipment,
product or material in the community.
      (12)   Expert testimony concerning the use of the equipment, product or
material.
   (c)   (1)   Subject to divisions (d)(2), (d)(3), and (d)(4) of this section,
no person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, drug
paraphernalia.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly sell, or possess or manufacture with
purpose to sell, drug paraphernalia, if he or she knows or reasonably should
know that the equipment, product or material will be used as drug
paraphernalia.
      (3)   No person shall place an advertisement in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill or other publication that is published and printed and circulates
primarily within this state, if he or she knows that the purpose of the
advertisement is to promote the illegal sale in this municipality or in this
state of the equipment, product or material that the offender intended or
designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   (d)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies
and other persons whose conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731 and 4741. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. §
3719.172.
      (2)   Division (c)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a
product, or material of any kind that is used by the person, intended by the
person for use, or designed for use in storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body
marihuana.
      (3)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of division (c)(1) of this section when a person seeks or obtains
medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a
person experiences a drug overdose and seeks medical assistance for that
overdose, or a person is the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose.
      (4)   Division (c)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug testing strips to determine the
presence of fentanyl or a fentanyl-related compound.
   (e)   Notwithstanding R.C. Chapter 2981, any drug paraphernalia that was
used, possessed, sold or manufactured in violation of this section shall be
seized, after a conviction for that violation, shall be forfeited, and upon
forfeiture shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 2981.12(B).
   (f)   (1)   Whoever violates division (c)(1) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (f)(3) of this section, whoever
violates division (c)(2) of this section is guilty of dealing in drug
paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (c)(2) of this section by selling drug
paraphernalia to a juvenile is guilty of selling drug paraphernalia to
juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (c)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal advertising of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (g)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   A.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         B.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (g)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.14)
   (h)   Illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   As used in this division (h), DRUG PARAPHERNALIA has the same
meaning as in division (a) of this section.
      (2)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, all factors identified in division (b) of this
section.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, any
drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a product, or material of any kind that
is used by the person, intended by the person for use, or designed for use in
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body marihuana.
      (4)   This division (h) does not apply to any person identified in
division (d)(1) of this section, and it shall not be construed to prohibit the
possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. § 3719.172.
      (5)   A.   Division (e) of this section applies with respect to any drug
paraphernalia that was used or possessed in violation of division (h) of this
section.
         B.   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of this division (h) when a person seeks or obtains medical
assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a person
experiences a drug overdose and seeks medical assistance for that overdose, or
a person is the subject of another person seeking or obtaining medical
assistance for that overdose.
      (6)   A.   Whoever violates division (h)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia, a minor misdemeanor.
         B.   Arrest or conviction for a violation of division (h)(3) of this
section does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the
person so arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s
criminal record, including any inquiries contained in any application for
employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with
the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (7)   A.   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for
a violation of division (h) of this section, the court shall do the following,
if applicable:
            1.   If the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a
violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance or
the law of another state or the United States arising out of the same set of
circumstances as the violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit for not more than five years.
            2.   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
         B.   1.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under division (h)
of this section prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the
sentencing court requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an
offender who pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another
state or the United States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as
the violation for which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under
division (h) of this section shall not file such a motion.
            2.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (h)(7)B. of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.141)
§ 513.13 COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly possess any counterfeit controlled
substance.
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section shall be guilty of
possession of counterfeit controlled substances, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2925.37(A), (G))
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking, other felony counterfeit controlled substance offenses, see
R.C. § 2925.37(H) - (M)
§ 513.14 SALE AND USE OF “TOXIC GLUE.”
   (a)   As used in this section TOXIC GLUE means any glue, adhesive cement,
mucilage, plastic solvent or other adhesive containing toluene, acetone,
xylene, butyle alcohol, hexane, tricresyl phosphate or other toxic ingredient.
   (b)   No person shall, for the purpose of violating or aiding another in
violating any provision of this section, intentionally possess, buy, sell,
transfer possession or receive possession of any toxic glue.
   (c)   No person shall sell or transfer possession of any toxic glue to
another person under 18 years of age except that one tube of glue may be sold
at any one time to a person under 18 years of age provided that the tube is
included in a kit for the assembly of a model airplane, automobile, boat or
other unassembled model, or when a kit not having glue packaged therein is sold
in conjunction with the sale of one tube of glue.
   (d)   No person shall inhale, drink, eat or otherwise introduce into his or
her respiratory or circulatory system any toxic glue with the intent of
becoming intoxicated, elated, paralyzed, irrational or in any manner changing,
distorting or disturbing the eyesight, thinking process, judgment, balance or
coordination of the person. For the purpose of this section, any condition so
induced shall be deemed to be an intoxicated condition.
   (e)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be fined not more
than $500 or imprisoned for not more than 90 days or both.
   (f)   It shall be the duty of any person offering for sale to the public
toxic glue as herein defined to have posted in a conspicuous place in or about
the premises of his or her place of business a copy of this section (Ordinance
23-1969). Copies of Ordinance No. 23-1969 shall be furnished by the
municipality, free of charge, at the request of any person obligated to display
the same by this section.
(Ord. 23-1969, passed 3-10-1969)
§ 513.15 PSEUDOEPHEDRINE SALES.
   (a)   Unlawful purchases.
      (1)   As used in divisions (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this section:
         A.   CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by
humans and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only
pursuant to  a prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         B.   EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         C.   EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         D.   PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation
that contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical
isomers, or salts of optical isomers.
         E.    PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         F.   RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for
sale to the general public.
         G.   SINGLE- INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation,
or substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         H.   TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 4729.01.
      (2)   A.   1.   No individual shall knowingly purchase, receive, or
otherwise acquire an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
that is greater than either of the following unless the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product is dispensed by a pharmacist pursuant to a valid
prescription issued by a licensed health professional
               authorized to prescribe drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist
and the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The limits specified in divisions (a)(2)A.1.a. and (a)
(2)A.1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine or
base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The limits do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         B.   It is not a violation of division (b)(1) of this section for an
individual to receive or accept more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product specified in division (a)(2)A.1.a. or (a)(2)A.1.b. of this
section if the individual is an employee of a retailer or terminal distributor
of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the retailer or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   A.   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly purchase,
receive, or otherwise acquire a pseudoephedrine product, or ephedrine product
unless the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product is dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist
and the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
         B.   Division (a)(3)A. of this section does not apply to an individual
under 18 years of age who purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires a
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product from any of the following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to that individual and whose conduct is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of that individual who provides the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person, as authorized by that individual’s parent or
guardian, who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            4.   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs who
provides the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to that individual if
the individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs and the individual receives or accepts from the retailer or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (4)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing, receiving, or otherwise acquiring
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
      (5)   No individual shall knowingly fail to comply with the requirements
of R.C. § 3715.051(B).
      (6)   Whoever violates division (a)(2)A. of this section is guilty of
unlawful purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (a)(3)A. of this section is guilty of
underage purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (a)(4) of this section is guilty of using
false information to purchase a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the first degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (9)   Whoever violates division (a)(5) of this section is guilty of
improper purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2925.55)
   (b)   Unlawful retail sales.
      (1)   A.   1.   Except as provided in division (b)(1)B. of this section,
no retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall knowingly sell, offer
to sell, hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide to any individual an
amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (b)(1)A.1.a. and
(b)(1)A.1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine
or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         B.   1.   Division (b)(1)A. of this section does not apply to any
quantity of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs if the conduct of the pharmacist and
the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
            2.   It is not a violation of division (b)(1)A. of this section for
a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee of either to
provide to an individual more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product specified in division (b)(1)A.1.a. or (b)(1)A.1.b. of this
section under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product in a sealed container in
connection with manufacturing, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging,
loading, or unloading of the product;
               b.   A stop-sale alert is generated after the submission of
information to the national precursor log exchange under the conditions
described in R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (2)   A.   Except as provided in division (b)(2)B. of this section, no
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall sell, offer to sell,
hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual who is under 18 years of age.
         B.   Division (b)(2)A. of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age and whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of an individual under 18 years of age
who provides a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person who, as authorized by the individual’s parent or
guardian, dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age;
            4.   The provision by a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, or employee of either of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
in a sealed container to an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs who is under 18 years of age in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.051(A) or R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (4)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.052(A)(1).
      (5)   Whoever violates division (b)(1)A. of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (b)(2)A. of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to a minor, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (b)(3) of this section is guilty of
improper sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a misdemeanor
of the second degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (b)(4) of this section is guilty of
failing to submit information to the national precursor log exchange, a
misdemeanor for which the offender shall be fined not more than $1,000 per
violation.
(R.C. § 2925.56)
   (c)   Transaction scans.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division and division (d) of this section,
the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
         A.   CARD HOLDER. Any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive any pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product from the seller, agent or employee.
         B.   IDENTIFICATION CARD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
         C.   SELLER. A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs.
         D.   TRANSACTION SCAN. The process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks by means of a transaction scan device the validity
of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card that is
presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving any pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product.
         E.   TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Had the same meaning as in R.C. §
2927.021.
      (2)   A.   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away or otherwise distributing
to the card holder a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
         B.   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (c)(2)A. of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away or otherwise distribute any pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to the card holder.
         C.   Division (c)(2)A. of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller as a condition for selling, giving away or
otherwise distributing a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the
person presenting the document from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or an identification card if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (c) and division (d) of this section.
      (4)   A.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except the following:
            1.   The name, address, and date of birth of the person listed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
a card holder;
            2.   The expiration date, identification number, and issuing agency
of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by a card holder.
         B.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (c)(4)A. of this section except for
purposes of division (d) of this section, R.C. § 2925.58, or R.C. § 3715.052(A)
(1).
         C.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (c)(2)A. of this section.
         D.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including, but not limited to, selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (d) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (c) or division (d) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable state or federal laws or rules governing the
sale, giving away or other distribution of pseudoephedrine products or
ephedrine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (c)(2)B. or (c)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil penalty of
up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay each
collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the County
Treasury.
(R.C. § 2925.57)
   (d)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (b) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of a pseudoephedrine product is an
element of the alleged violation if the seller, agent or employee raises and
proves as an affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
         A.   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive a pseudoephedrine
product presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card.
         B.   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that the
license or card was valid.
         C.   The pseudoephedrine product was sold, given away or otherwise
distributed to the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification
presented and the completed transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (d)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (b) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (b) of this
section. For purposes of division (d)(1)C. of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         A.   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away or otherwise distributes a pseudoephedrine product is
18 years of age or older;
         B.   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (d)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
Deputy Registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2925.58)
   (e)   Retailer’s duties.
      (1)   As used in divisions (e) and (f) of this section:
         A.   CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by
humans and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only
pursuant to a prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         B.   DRUG. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         C.   EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         D.   EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         E.   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. An officer or employee of any agency or
authority of the United States, a state, a territory, a political subdivision
of a state or territory, or an Indian tribe, who is empowered by the law to
investigate or conduct an official inquiry into a potential violation of law or
prosecute or otherwise conduct a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding
arising from an alleged violation of law.
         F.   LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has
the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         G.   NATIONAL PRECURSOR LOG EXCHANGE or EXCHANGE. The electronic
system for tracking sales of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products on
a national basis that is administered by the National Association of Drug
Diversion Investigators or a successor organization.
         H.   PHARMACIST. A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 to engage
in the practice of pharmacy.
         I.   PHARMACY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         J.   PRESCRIBER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         K.   PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         L.   PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license,
a military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under sections R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows a person is 18 years of
age or older.
         M.   PSEUDOEPHEDRI NE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation
that contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical
isomers, or salts of optical isomers.
         N.    PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         O.   RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for
sale to the general public.
         P.   SINGLE- INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation,
or substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         Q.   STOP-SALE ALERT. A notification sent from the national precursor
log exchange to a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs
indicating that the completion of a sale of a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product would result in a violation of R.C. § 2925.56(A)(1) or
federal law.
         R.   TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meanings as
in R.C. § 4729.01.
         S.   WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
      (2)   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs that sells,
offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers, or otherwise provides a
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the public shall do all of the
following:
         A.   Segregate pseudoephedrine products or ephedrine products from
other merchandise so that no member of the public may procure or purchase such
products without the direct assistance of a pharmacist or other authorized
employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
         B.   With regard to each time a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product is sold or otherwise provided without a valid prescription:
            1.   Determine, by examination of a valid proof of age, that the
purchaser or recipient is at least 18 years of age;
            2.   a.   Using any information available, including information
from the national precursor log exchange if the information is accessible, make
a reasonable attempt to ensure that no individual purchases or receives an
amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
                  i.    Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single
day;
                  ii.    Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
               b.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (e)(2)B.2.a.i.
and (e)(2)B.2.a.ii. of this section apply to the total amount of base
pseudoephedrine or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product, respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s
overall weight.
         C.   Maintain a log book of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product purchases, in accordance with R.C. § 3715.051;
         D.   If required to comply with section R.C. § 3715.052, submit the
information specified in divisions (A)(1)(a) to (A)(1)(d) of that section to
the national precursor log exchange.
      (3)   Prescriptions, orders, and records maintained pursuant to this
section and stocks of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products shall be
open for inspection to federal, state, county, and municipal officers, and
employees of the State Board of Pharmacy whose duty it is to enforce the laws
of this state or of the United States relating to controlled substances. Such
prescriptions, orders, records, and stocks shall be open for inspection by the
State Medical Board and its employees for purposes of enforcing R.C. Chapter
4731.
(R.C. § 3715.05)
   (f)   Theft or loss; reporting requirements.
      (1)   Each retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy,
prescriber or wholesaler that sells, offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers
or otherwise provides any pseudoephedrine product and that discovers the theft
or loss of any pseudoephedrine product in an amount of more than nine grams per
incident of theft or loss shall notify all of the following upon discovery of
the theft or loss:
         A.   The State Board of Pharmacy, by telephone immediately upon
discovery of the theft or loss;
         B.   Law enforcement authorities. If the incident is a theft and the
theft constitutes a felony, the retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, pharmacy, prescriber or wholesaler shall report the theft to the law
enforcement authorities in accordance with R.C. § 2921.22.
      (2)   Within 30 days after making a report by telephone to the State
Board of Pharmacy pursuant to division (f)(1)A. of this section, a retailer,
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy, prescriber or wholesaler
shall send a written report to the State Board of Pharmacy.
      (3)   The reports required under this section shall identify the product
that was stolen or lost, the amount of the product stolen or lost, and the date
and time of discovery of the theft or loss.
(R.C. § 3715.06)
§ 513.16 IMPROPERLY DISPENSING OR DISTRIBUTING NITROUS OXIDE.
   (a)   No person who dispenses or distributes nitrous oxide in cartridges
shall fail to comply with either of the following:
      (1)   The record-keeping requirements established under division (c) of
this section.
      (2)   The labeling and transaction identification requirements
established under division (d) of this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section is guilty
of improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide, a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (c)   Beginning July 1, 2001, a person who dispenses or distributes nitrous
oxide shall record each transaction involving the dispensing or distribution of
the nitrous oxide on a separate card. The person shall require the purchaser to
sign the card and provide a complete residence address. The person dispensing
or distributing the nitrous oxide shall sign and date the card. The person
shall retain the card recording a transaction for one year from the date of the
transaction. The person shall maintain the cards at the person’s business
address and make them available during normal business hours for inspection and
copying by officers or employees of the State Board of Pharmacy or of other law
enforcement agencies that are authorized to investigate violations of this
code, R.C. Chapter 2925, Chapter 3719 or Chapter 4729, or federal drug abuse
control laws. The cards used to record each transaction shall inform the
purchaser of the following:
      (1)   That nitrous oxide cartridges are to be used only for purposes of
preparing food;
      (2)   That inhalation of nitrous oxide can have dangerous health effects;
and
      (3)   That it is a violation of state law to distribute or dispense
cartridges of nitrous oxide to any person under age 21, punishable as a felony
of the fifth degree.
   (d)   (1)   Each cartridge of nitrous oxide dispensed or distributed in this
municipality shall bear the following printed warning: “Nitrous oxide
cartridges are to be used only for purposes of preparing food. Nitrous oxide
cartridges may not be sold to persons under age 21. Do not inhale contents.
Misuse can be dangerous to your health.”
      (2)   Each time a person dispenses or distributes one or more cartridges
of nitrous oxide, the person shall mark the packaging containing the cartridges
with a label or other device that identifies the person who dispensed or
distributed the nitrous oxide and the person’s business address.
(R.C. § 2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G))
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking in harmful intoxicants, felony offenses, see R.C. § 2925.32
§ 513.17 EVIDENCE.
   (a)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of this chapter or
R.C. Chapter 2925 or Chapter 3719, a laboratory report from the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation or a laboratory operated by another
law enforcement agency, or a laboratory established by or under the authority
of an institution of higher education that has its main campus in this state
and that is accredited by the Association of American Universities or the North
Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, primarily for the
purpose of providing scientific service to law enforcement agencies, and signed
by the person performing the analysis, stating that the substance that is the
basis of the alleged offense has been weighed and analyzed and stating the
findings as to the content, weight and identity of the substance and that it
contains any amount of a controlled substance and the number and description of
unit dosages, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity and weight or
the existence and number of unit dosages of the substance. In any criminal
prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 or a violation of this chapter,
R.C. Chapter 2925 or R.C. Chapter 3719 that is based on the possession of
chemicals sufficient to produce a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance
included in Schedule I, Schedule II, Schedule III, Schedule IV or Schedule V, a
laboratory report from the Bureau or from any laboratory that is operated or
established as described in this division that is signed by the person
performing the analysis, stating that the substances that are the basis of the
alleged offense have been weighed and analyzed and stating the findings as to
the content, weight, and identity of each of the substances, is prima facie
evidence of the content, identity and weight of the substances.
      (2)   Attached to that report shall be a copy of a notarized statement by
the signer of the report giving the name of the signer and stating that the
signer is an employee of the laboratory issuing the report and that performing
the analysis is a part of the signer’s regular duties, and giving an outline of
the signer’s education, training and experience for performing an analysis of
materials included under this section. The signer shall attest that
scientifically accepted tests were performed with due caution, and that the
evidence was handled in accordance with established and accepted procedures
while in the custody of the laboratory.
   (b)   The prosecuting attorney shall serve a copy of the report on the
attorney of record for the accused, or on the accused if the accused has no
attorney, prior to any proceeding in which the report is to be used against the
accused other than at a preliminary hearing or grand jury proceeding where the
report may be used without having been previously served upon the accused.
   (c)   The report shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity
and weight or the existence and number of unit dosages of the substance if the
accused or the accused’s attorney demands the testimony of the person signing
the report, by serving the demand upon the prosecuting attorney, within seven
days from the accused or the accused’s attorney’s receipt of the report. The
time may be extended by a trial judge in the interests of justice.
   (d)   Any report issued for use under this section shall contain notice of
the right of the accused to demand, and the manner in which the accused shall
demand, the testimony of the person signing the report.
   (e)   Any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C.
Chapter 2925 or Chapter 3719 is entitled, upon written request made to the
prosecuting attorney, to have a portion of the substance that is, or of each of
the substances that are, the basis of the alleged violation preserved for the
benefit of independent analysis performed by a laboratory analyst employed by
the accused person, or, if the accused is indigent, by a qualified laboratory
analyst appointed by the court. The portion shall be a representative sample of
the entire substance that is, or of each of the substances that are, the basis
of the alleged violation and shall be of sufficient size, in the opinion of the
court, to permit the accused’s analyst to make a thorough scientific analysis
concerning the identity of the substance or substances. The prosecuting
attorney shall provide the accused’s analyst with the sample portion at least
14 days prior to trial, unless the trial is to be held in a court not of record
or unless the accused person is charged with a minor misdemeanor, in which case
the prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s analyst with the sample
portion at least three days prior to trial. If the prosecuting attorney
determines that such a sample portion cannot be preserved and given to the
accused’s analyst, the prosecuting attorney shall so inform the accused person,
or the accused’s attorney. In such a circumstance, the accused person is
entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting attorney, to have the
accused’s privately employed or court appointed analyst present at an analysis
of the substance that is, or the substances that are, the basis of the alleged
violation, and, upon further written request, to receive copies of all recorded
scientific data that result from the analysis and that can be used by an
analyst in arriving at conclusions, findings or opinions concerning the
identity of the substance or substances subject to the analysis.
   (f)   In addition to the rights provided under division (e) of this section,
any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2925
or Chapter 3719 that involves a bulk amount of a controlled substance, or any
multiple thereof, or who is accused of a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, other than a minor misdemeanor
violation, that involves marihuana, is entitled, upon written request made to
the prosecuting attorney, to have a laboratory analyst of the accused’s choice,
or, if the accused is indigent, a qualified laboratory analyst appointed by the
court, present at a measurement or weighing of the substance that is the basis
of the alleged violation. Also, the accused person is entitled, upon further
written request, to receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result
from the measurement or weighing and that can be used by an analyst in arriving
at conclusions, findings, or opinions concerning the weight, volume or number
of unit doses of the substance subject to the measurement or weighing.
(R.C. § 2925.51)
   (g)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required under
R.C. §§ 2929.18 and 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required
under any provision of law, the court imposing sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a drug abuse offense may order the offender to
pay to the state, municipal or county law enforcement agencies that handled the
investigation and prosecution all of the costs that the state, municipal
corporation or county reasonably incurred in having tests performed under this
section or R.C. § 2925.51 or in any other manner on any substance that was the
basis of, or involved in, the offense to determine whether the substance
contained any amount of a controlled substance if the results of the tests
indicate that the substance tested contained any controlled substance. No court
shall order an offender under this section to pay the costs of tests performed
on a substance if the results of the tests do not indicate that the substance
tested contained any controlled substance. The court shall hold a hearing to
determine the amount of costs to be imposed under this section. The court may
hold the hearing as part of the sentencing hearing for the offender.
(R.C. § 2925.511)
§ 513.18 DOUBLE JEOPARDY.
   No person shall be prosecuted for a violation of this chapter if the person
has been acquitted or convicted under the federal drug abuse control laws of
the same act or omission which, it is alleged, constitutes a violation of this
chapter.
(R.C. §§ 2925.50, 3719.19)
§ 513.19 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE SCHEDULES.
   Controlled Substance Schedules I, II, III, IV and V, as established in R.C.
§ 3719.41 and amended by R.C. §§ 3719.43 and 3719.44, are hereby adopted by
reference, and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
§ 513.20 SALE OF PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT.
   (a)   As used in this section, “pure caffeine product” means:
      (1)   Subject to division (a)(2) of this section, a product that consists
solely or primarily of caffeine and is manufactured into a crystalline, liquid,
or powdered form.
      (2)   The phrase does not include any of the following that contains
caffeine and is formulated, manufactured, and labeled in accordance with the
laws and regulations enforced by the United States Food and Drug
Administration:
         A.   Coffee, tea, any soft drink, any energy drink, or any other
caffeine-containing beverage;
         B.   Any energy product.
   (b)   Except as provided in division (c) of this section, no person shall
knowingly sell or offer for sale a pure caffeine product.
   (c)   Division (b) of this section does not prohibit a person from selling
or offering for sale any product manufactured in a unit-dose form such as a
pill, tablet, or caplet, but only if each unit dose of the product contains not
more than 250 milligrams of caffeine.
   (d)   Nothing in this section prohibits either of the following:
      (1)   Possession of a product described in division (c) of this section;
      (2)   Possession of a pure caffeine product by any of the following:
         A.   A food processing establishment, as defined in R.C. § 3715.021;
         B.   A manufacturer of a drug that is available without a
prescription;
         C.   A laboratory that holds a current, valid category III terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs license issued by the state board of pharmacy
under R.C. § 4729.54;
         D.   A laboratory of any agency or department of this state that
performs testing, analysis, and other laboratory services on behalf of the
state;
         E.   A postal or delivery service that transports or delivers a pure
caffeine product to an entity specified in divisions (d)(2)A. to (d)(2)D. of
this section.
   (e)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of illegal
sale of pure caffeine, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor
of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 2925.34)
§ 513.21 SALE OF DEXTROMETHORPHAN.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   DEXTROMETHORPHAN. Means the dextrorotatory isomer of 3-methoxy-N-
methylmorphinan, including its salts, but not including its racemic or
levorotatory forms.
      (2)   EVIDENCE OF MAJORITY AND IDENTITY. Means a document issued by the
federal government or a state, county, or municipal government, or a
subdivision or agency of any of the foregoing, including a driver's or
commercial driver's license, an identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 to 4507.52, a military identification card, or any other form of
identification that bears the name, date of birth, description, and picture of
the person identified.
      (3)   RETAILER. Means a place of business that offers consumer products
for sale to the general public, including a terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs that is licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 and operated as a pharmacy.
   (b)   No retailer or employee of a retailer shall knowingly supply, deliver,
give, or otherwise provide a drug, material, compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance containing any quantity of dextromethorphan through the sale of any
product to a person under 18 years of age, unless the person has been issued a
prescription for the product being purchased.
   (c)   For purposes of division (b) of this section, the person making the
sale of a product containing dextromethorphan shall require and obtain evidence
of majority and identity from the purchaser, unless from the purchaser's
outward appearance the person making the sale would reasonably presume the
purchaser to be 25 years of age or older. Proof that the person making the sale
demanded, was shown, and acted in reasonable reliance on the purchaser's
evidence of majority and identity is a defense to any charge of a violation of
division (b) of this section.
   (d)   A retailer or employee of a retailer is not liable for damages in a
civil action for injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly
arises from an act or omission associated with a failure to prevent the sale of
a product containing dextromethorphan to a person under 18 years of age, unless
the act or omission constitutes willful or wanton misconduct.
   (e)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of illegally
selling dextromethorphan, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2925.62)
§ 513.22 ADULT USE CANNABIS CONTROL; LIMITATIONS ON CONDUCT BY INDIVIDUALS.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780 and notwithstanding
any conflicting provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, an adult use
consumer, may do the following:
      (1)   Use adult use cannabis;
      (2)   Possess, transfer without remuneration to another adult consumer,
or transport adult use cannabis, subject to division (b) of this section; and
      (3)   Purchase adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary per day in
amounts that do not exceed the possession limits set forth in division (b)(1)
of this section.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3796:
      (1)   The amount of cannabis that may be possessed by an adult use
consumer shall not exceed:
         A.   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         B.   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
      (2)   The amount of cannabis that may be transferred by an adult use
consumer without remuneration and not advertised or promoted to the public
shall not exceed:
         A.   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         B.   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
      (3)   The amount of cannabis that may be transported by an adult use
consumer shall not exceed:
         A.   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         B.   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, an adult use
consumer shall not be subject to arrest, criminal prosecution, or civil penalty
for engaging in any of the activities authorized under R.C. Chapter 3780,
including:
      (1)   Obtaining, using, possessing, or transporting adult use cannabis;
      (2)   Performing conduct authorized under R.C. § 3780.29;
      (3)   Acquiring, possessing, using, purchasing, manufacturing, selling,
or transporting paraphernalia; and
      (4)   Assisting another adult use consumer, or allowing property to be
used, in any of the acts authorized by R.C. Chapter 3780.
   (d)   (1)   An individual is prohibited from operating a vehicle, motor
vehicle, streetcar, trackless trolley, bike, watercraft, or aircraft while
using adult use cannabis or while under the influence of adult use cannabis and
is subject to R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance
for any violation of this division.
      (2)   An individual is prohibited from smoking, vaporizing, or using any
other combustible adult use cannabis product while in a vehicle, motor vehicle,
streetcar, trackless trolley, bike, watercraft, or aircraft and is subject to
R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for any
violation of this division.
   (e)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, no individual under
21 years of age shall knowingly show or give false information concerning the
individual’s name, age, or other identification for the purpose of purchasing
adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter
3780.
   (f)   Nothing in R.C. Chapter 3780 is intended to permit the transfer or
sale of adult use cannabis, with or without remuneration, to an individual
under 21 years of age, or to allow an individual under 21 years of age to
purchase, possess, use, process, transport, or cultivate cannabis except where
authorized by R.C. Chapter 3796.
   (g)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit their
residence, any other private property under their control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under their control to be used by an invitee of the
parent’s child or the guardian’s ward, if the invitee is under 21 years of age,
in a manner that constitutes a violation of R.C. Chapter 3780.
      (1)   A parent or guardian is deemed to have knowingly permitted their
residence, any other private property under their control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under their control to be used in violation of R.C.
Chapter 3780 if they knowingly authorize or permit consumption of cannabis by
underage invitees.
      (2)   Where the residence or other property has an owner and a tenant or
lessee, the trier of fact may infer that the residence or other property is
occupied only by the tenant or lessee.
(R.C. § 3780.36)
   (h)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3796, R.C. § 2925.11
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall apply when an adult use
consumer possesses an amount of cannabis greater than the limits set forth in
division (b)(1) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, an adult use
consumer who uses adult use cannabis in public areas, or who violates division
(d)(2) of this section as a passenger, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   A.   An individual under 21 years of age who knowingly shows or
gives false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining adult use
cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter 3780 is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If, in committing a first
violation, the offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed under
R.C. Chapter 3780 a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $250 and not
more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more
than six months.
         B.   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the offender
presented to an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter 3780 a false,
fictitious, or altered identification card, a false or fictitious driver’s
license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s license issued by any
state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and
may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. The
court also may impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from
the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). The court, in lieu of suspending
the offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or
driver’s license, instead may order the offender to perform a determinate
number of hours of community service, with the court determining the actual
number of hours and the nature of the community service the offender shall
perform.
         C.   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3780 a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a
false or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a
driver’s license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than
$500 nor more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of
not more than six months. Except as provided in this division, the court also
may impose a class six suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6), and the court may order that the suspension
or denial remain in effect until the offender attains the age of 21 years. The
court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s temporary instruction permit,
probationary driver’s license, or driver’s license, instead may order the
offender to perform a determinate number of hours of community service, with
the court determining the actual number of hours and the nature of the
community service the offender shall perform.
      (4)   An individual who is under 21 years of age and who solicits another
individual to purchase adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3780 is guilty of:
         A.   For a first violation, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; and
         B.   For a second or subsequent violation, a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
      (5)   An employee or agent of an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C.
Chapter 3780 who knowingly sells cannabis to an individual under 21 years of
age is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Any individual who violates R.C. § 3780.10(A), or R.C. § 3780.29
(F), is guilty of the illegal trafficking in drugs under R.C. § 2925.03 and the
illegal manufacture of drugs under R.C. § 2925.04.
      (7)   Any individual who violates division (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this
section guilty of the illegal trafficking in drugs under R.C. § 2925.03.
      (8)   Any individual who violates R.C. § 3780.20(B) is guilty of illegal
dispensing of drug samples under R.C. § 2925.36 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
      (9)   A.   An individual who violates division (g) of this section is
guilty of:
            1.   For a first violation, a misdemeanor of the third degree; and
            2.   For a second or subsequent violation, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         B.   If a violation of division (g) of this section directly or
indirectly results in great bodily harm or death to any individual, the
individual violating division (g) is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 3780.99)
§ 513.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.
CHAPTER 517: GAMBLING
Section
517.01   Definitions
517.02   Gambling in general
517.03   Operating a gambling house
517.04   Public gaming
517.05   Cheating
517.06   Responsibility of charitable organization conducting bingo game
517.07   Maintenance of records by charitable organizations
517.08   Qualifications of bingo game operator
517.09   Exemption for bingo games conducted for amusement
517.10   Prohibitions where instant bingo game is conducted
517.11   Raffle drawings
517.12   Instant bingo other than at bingo sessions
517.13   Restrictions on owner or lessor of location at instant bingo
517.14   Skill-based amusement machines; prohibited conduct
517.15   Electronic instant bingo; prohibited conduct
517.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
501.01
Statutory reference:
   Power to prohibit gambling, see R.C. § 715.49
   Power to destroy devices, see R.C. § 715.51
§ 517.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   BET. The hazarding of anything of value upon the result of an event,
undertaking, or contingency, but does not include a bona fide business risk.
   (b)   BINGO. Either of the following:
      (1)   A game with all of the following characteristics:
         A.   The participants use bingo cards or sheets, including paper
formats and electronic representation or image formats, that are divided into
25 spaces arranged in five horizontal and five vertical rows of spaces, with
each space, except the central space, being designated by a combination of a
letter and a number and with the central space being designated as a free
space;
         B.   The participants cover the spaces on the bingo cards or sheets
that correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator;
         C.   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance,
either manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains 75 objects at
the beginning of each game, each object marked by a different combination of a
letter and a number that corresponds to one of the 75 possible combinations of
a letter and a number that can appear on the bingo cards or sheets;
         D.   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who
properly announces during the interval between the announcements of letters and
numbers, as described in division (1)C. of this definition, that a
predetermined and pre-announced pattern of spaces has been covered on a bingo
card or sheet being used by the participant.
      (2)   Instant bingo, punch boards and raffles.
   (c)   BINGO GAME OPERATOR. Any person, except security personnel, who
performs work or labor at the site of bingo including but not limited to
collecting money from participants, handing out bingo cards or sheets or
objects to cover spaces on bingo cards or sheets, selecting from a receptacle
the objects that contain the combination of letters and numbers that appear on
bingo cards or sheets, calling out the combinations of letters and numbers,
distributing prizes, selling or redeeming instant bingo tickets or cards,
selling or redeeming electronic instant bingo tickets, credits, or vouchers,
accessing an electronic instant bingo system other than as a participant,
supervising the operation of a punch board, selling raffle tickets, selecting
raffle tickets from a receptacle and announcing the winning numbers in a
raffle, and preparing, selling, and serving food or beverages. BINGO GAME
OPERATOR does not include a person who is installing, maintaining, updating, or
repairing an electronic instant bingo system.
   (d)   BINGO SESSION. A period that includes both of the following:
      (1)   Not to exceed five continuous hours for the conduct of one or more
games described in division (1) of the definition of "bingo" in this section,
instant bingo, and electronic instant bingo;
      (2)   A period for the conduct of instant bingo and electronic instant
bingo for not more than two hours before and not more than two hours after the
period described in division (1) of this definition.
   (e)   BINGO SUPPLIES. Bingo cards or sheets; instant bingo tickets or cards;
electronic bingo aids; raffle tickets; punch boards; seal cards; instant bingo
ticket dispensers; electronic instant bingo systems; and devices for selecting
or displaying the combination of bingo letters and numbers or raffle tickets.
Items that are BINGO SUPPLIES are not gambling devices if sold or otherwise
provided, and used, in accordance with this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915. For
purposes of this chapter, BINGO SUPPLIES are not to be considered equipment
used to conduct a bingo game.
   (f)   BOOKMAKING. The business of receiving or paying off bets.
   (g)   CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. Any organization of individuals, professionals
and businesses that has the purpose to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial and civic interests of the community and that is, and has received
from the Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that currently is in
effect stating that the organization is, exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(6).
   (h)   CHARITABLE BINGO GAME. Any bingo game described in divisions (1) or
(2) of the definition of BINGO in this section that is conducted by a
charitable organization that has obtained a license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08
and the proceeds of which are used for a charitable purpose.
   (i)   CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATION. An organization that is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3)
and is a charitable organization as defined in this section. A CHARITABLE
INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATION does not include a charitable organization that is
exempt from federal income taxation under IRC  501(a) and described in IRC 501
(c)(3) and that is created by a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization in regards to bingo conducted or
assisted by a veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization or a sporting
organization pursuant to R.C. § 2915.13, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (j)   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. 
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, “charitable
organization” means either of the following:
         A.   An organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3);
         B.   A volunteer rescue service organization, volunteer firefighter’s
organization, veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(c)(4),
501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19).
      (2)   To qualify as a charitable organization, an organization shall have
been in continuous existence as such in this state for a period of two years
immediately preceding either the making of an application for a bingo license
under R.C. § 2915.08 or the conducting of any game of chance as provided in
R.C. § 2915.02(D), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (k)   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. The net profit of bingo, other than instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo, is used by, or is given, donated, or otherwise
transferred to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any organization that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)
(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt
under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3);
      (2)   A veteran’s organization that is a post, chapter or organization of
veterans, or an auxiliary unit or society of, or a trust or foundation for, any
such post, chapter or organization organized in the United States or any of its
possessions, at least 75% of the members of which are veterans and
substantially all of the other members of which are individuals who are
spouses, widows or widowers of veterans, or those individuals, provided that no
part of the net earnings of the post, chapter or organization inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and further provided that the
net profit is used by the post, chapter or organization for the charitable
purposes set forth in R.C. § 5739.02(B)(12), is used for awarding scholarships
to or for attendance at an institution mentioned in that division of the
Revised Code, is donated to a governmental agency, or is used for nonprofit
youth activities, the purchase of United States or Ohio flags that are donated
to schools, youth groups or other bona fide nonprofit organizations, promotion
of patriotism or disaster relief;
      (3)   A fraternal organization that has been in continuous existence in
this state for 15 years and that uses the net profit exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary or educational purposes, or for the prevention
of cruelty to children or animals, if contributions for that use would qualify
as a deductible charitable contribution under IRC 170;
      (4)   A volunteer firefighter’s organization that uses the net profit for
the purposes set forth in the definition of VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER’S
ORGANIZATION in this section.
   (l)   COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 122.66.
   (m)   CONDUCT. To back, promote, organize, manage, carry on, sponsor or
prepare for the operation of bingo or a game of chance, a scheme of chance, or
a sweepstakes.
   (n)   DEAL. A single game of instant bingo tickets, or a single game of
electronic instant bingo tickets, all with the same serial number.
   (o)   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who purchases or obtains bingo supplies and
who does either of the following:
      (1)   Sells, offers for sale or otherwise provides or offers to provide
the bingo supplies to another person for use in this state;
      (2)   Modifies, converts, adds to or removes parts from the bingo
supplies to further their promotion or sale for use in this state.
   (p)   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID.
      (1)   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID means an electronic device used by a
participant to monitor bingo cards or sheets purchased at the time and place of
a bingo session and that does all of the following:
         A.   It provides a means for a participant to input numbers and
letters announced by a bingo caller.
         B.   It compares the numbers and letters entered by the participant to
the bingo faces previously stored in the memory of the device.
         C.   It identifies a winning bingo pattern.
      (2)   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID does not include any device into which a coin,
         currency, token or an equivalent is inserted to activate play.
   (q)   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO.
      (1)   A form of bingo that consists of an electronic or digital
representation of instant bingo in which a participant wins a prize if the
participant's electronic instant bingo ticket contains a combination of numbers
or symbols that was designated in advance as a winning combination, and to
which all of the following apply:
         A.   Each deal has a predetermined, finite number of winning and
losing tickets and a predetermined prize amount and deal structure, provided
that there may be multiple winning combinations in each deal and multiple
winning tickets.
         B.   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal has a unique
serial number that is not regenerated.
         C.   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal is sold for
the same price.
         D.   After a participant purchases an electronic instant bingo ticket,
the combination of numbers or symbols on the ticket is revealed to the
participant.
         E.   The reveal of numbers or symbols on the ticket may incorporate an
entertainment or bonus theme, provided that the reveal does not include
spinning reels that resemble a slot machine.
         F.   The reveal theme, if any, does not require additional
consideration or award any prize other than any predetermined prize associated
with the electronic instant bingo ticket.
      (2)   The term shall not include any of the following:
         A.   Any game, entertainment, or bonus theme that replicates or
simulates any of the following:
            1.   The gambling games of keno, blackjack, roulette, poker, craps,
other casino-style table games;
            2.   Horse racing;
            3.   Gambling games offered in this state on slot machines or video
lottery terminals. As used in this division, "video lottery terminal" has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
         B.   Any device operated by dropping one or more coins or tokens into
a slot and pulling a handle or pushing a button or touchpoint on a touchscreen
to activate one to three or more rotating reels marked into horizontal segments
by varying symbols, where the predetermined prize amount depends on how and how
many of the symbols line up when the rotating reels come to a rest;
         C.   Any device that includes a coin or token slot, tray, or hopper
and the ability to dispense coins, cash, tokens, or anything of value other
than a credit ticket voucher.
   (r)   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO SYSTEM. Means both of the following:
      (1)   A mechanical, electronic, digital, or video device and associated
software to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   It is used by not more than one player at a time to play
electronic instant bingo on a single screen that is physically connected to the
device;
         (b)   It is located on the premises of the principal place of business
of a veteran's or fraternal organization that holds a type II or type III bingo
license to conduct electronic instant bingo at that location issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08.
      (2)   Any associated equipment or software used to manage, monitor, or
document any aspect of electronic instant bingo.
   (s)   EXPENSES. The reasonable amount of gross profit actually expended for
all of the following:
      (1)   The purchase or lease of bingo supplies;
      (2)   The annual license fee required under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Bank fees and service charges for a bingo session or game account
described in R.C. § 2915.10;
      (4)   Audits and accounting services;
      (5)   Safes;
      (6)   Cash registers;
      (7)   Hiring security personnel;
      (8)   Advertising bingo;
      (9)   Renting premises in which to conduct a bingo session;
      (10)   Tables and chairs;
      (11)   Expenses for maintaining and operating a charitable organization’s
facilities, including, but not limited to, a post home, club house, lounge,
tavern or canteen and any grounds attached to the post home, club house,
lounge, tavern or canteen;
      (12)   Payment of real property taxes and assessments that are levied on
a premises on which bingo is conducted;
      (13)   Any other product or service directly related to the conduct of
bingo that is authorized in rules adopted by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2915.08(F)(1).
   (t)   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. Any society, order, state headquarters or
association within this state, except a college or high school fraternity, that
is not organized for profit, that is a branch, lodge or chapter of a national
or state organization, that exists exclusively for the common business or
sodality of its members.
   (u)   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A book, totalizer or other equipment used for recording bets;
      (2)   A ticket, token or other device representing a chance, share or
interest in a scheme of chance or evidencing a bet;
      (3)   A deck of cards, dice, gaming table, roulette wheel, slot machine
or other apparatus designed for use in connection with a game of chance;
      (4)   Any equipment, device, apparatus or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes;
      (5)   Bingo supplies sold or otherwise provided, or used, in violation of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (v)   GAMBLING OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. Chapter 2915;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 or a violation of R.C. § 2915.06
as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States, of which gambling is an
element;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2) or (3) of this definition.
   (w)   GAME FLARE. The board or placard, or electronic representation of a
board or placard, that accompanies each deal of instant bingo or electronic
instant bingo tickets and that includes the following information for the game:
      (1)   The name of the game;
      (2)   The manufacturer’s name or distinctive logo;
      (3)   The form number;
      (4)   The ticket count;
      (5)   The prize structure, including the number of winning tickets by
denomination and the respective winning symbol or number combinations for the
winning tickets;
      (6)   The cost per play;
      (7)   The serial number of the game.
   (x)   GAME OF CHANCE. Poker, craps, roulette or other game in which a player
gives anything of value in the hope of gain, the outcome of which is determined
largely by chance, but does not include bingo.
   (y)   GAME OF CHANCE CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. Any game of chance designed to
produce income for the person who conducts or operates the game of chance, but
does not include bingo.
   (z)   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES. The annual gross receipts derived from the
conduct of bingo described in division (1) of the definition of BINGO in this
section plus the annual net profit derived from the conduct of bingo described
in division (2) of the definition of BINGO in this section.
   (aa)   GROSS PROFIT. Gross receipts minus the amount actually expended for
the payment of prize awards.
   (bb)   GROSS RECEIPTS. All money or assets, including admission fees, that a
person receives from bingo without the deduction of any amounts for prizes paid
out or for the expenses of conducting bingo. GROSS RECEIPTS does not include
any money directly taken in from the sale of food or beverages by a charitable
organization conducting bingo, or by a bona fide auxiliary unit or society of a
charitable organization conducting bingo, provided all of the following apply:
      (1)   The auxiliary unit or society has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two years
prior to conducting bingo.
      (2)   The person who purchases the food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage and items customarily received with the
purchase of that food or beverage.
      (3)   The food and beverages are sold at customary and reasonable prices.
   (cc)   HISTORIC RAILROAD. All or a portion of the tracks and right-of-way of
a railroad that was owned and operated by a for-profit common carrier in this
state at any time prior to January 1, 1950.
   (dd)   INSTANT BINGO. A form of bingo that shall use folded or banded
tickets or paper cards with perforated break-open tabs, a face of which is
covered or otherwise hidden from view to conceal a number, letter, or symbol,
or set of numbers, letters, or symbols, some of which have been designated in
advance as prize winners, and may also include games in which some winners are
determined by the random selection of one or more bingo numbers by the use of a
seal card or bingo blower. INSTANT BINGO also includes a punch board game. In
all INSTANT BINGO the prize amount and structure shall be predetermined. The
term does not include electronic instant bingo or any device that is activated
by the insertion of a coin, currency, token, or an equivalent, and that
contains as one of its components a video display monitor that is capable of
displaying numbers, letters, symbols, or characters in winning or losing
combinations.
   (ee)   INSTANT BINGO TICKET DISPENSER. A mechanical device that dispenses an
instant bingo ticket or card as the sole item of value dispensed and that has
the following characteristics:
      (1)   It is activated upon the insertion of United States currency.
      (2)   It performs no gaming functions.
      (3)   It does not contain a video display monitor or generate noise.
      (4)   It is not capable of displaying any numbers, letters, symbols or
characters in winning or losing combinations.
      (5)   It does not simulate or display rolling or spinning reels.
      (6)   It is incapable of determining whether a dispensed bingo ticket or
card is a winning or non-winning ticket or card and requires a winning ticket
or card to be paid by a bingo game operator.
      (7)   It may provide accounting and security features to aid in
accounting for the instant bingo tickets or cards it dispenses.
      (8)   It is not part of an electronic network and is not interactive.
   (ff)   IRC or INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100
Stat. 2085, 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   (gg)   MANUFACTURER. Any person who assembles completed bingo supplies from
raw materials, other items or subparts or who modifies, converts, adds to or
removes parts from bingo supplies to further their promotion or sale.
   (hh)   MERCHANDISE PRIZE. Any item of value, but shall not include any of
the following:
      (1)   Cash, gift cards or any equivalent thereof;
      (2)   Plays on games of chance, state lottery tickets, or bingo;
      (3)   Firearms, tobacco or alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)   A redeemable voucher that is redeemable for any of the items listed
in division (1), (2) or (3) of this definition.
   (ii)   NET PROFIT. Gross profit minus expenses.
   (jj)   NET PROFIT FROM THE PROCEEDS OF THE SALE OF INSTANT BINGO OR
ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO. Gross profit minus the ordinary, necessary, and
reasonable expense expended for the purchase of bingo supplies  for the purpose
of conducting instant bingo or electronic instant bingo, and, in the case of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conducted by a veteran's, fraternal,
or sporting organization, minus the payment by that organization of real
property taxes and assessments levied on a premises on which instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo is conducted.
   (kk)   PARTICIPANT. Any person who plays bingo.
   (ll)   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.59 and includes any firm
or any other legal entity, however organized.
   (mm)   POOL NOT CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. A scheme in which a participant gives
a valuable consideration for a chance to win a prize and the total amount of
consideration wagered is distributed to a participant or participants.
   (nn)   PUNCH BOARD. A form of instant bingo that uses a board containing a
number of holes or receptacles of uniform size in which are placed,
mechanically and randomly, serially numbered slips of paper that may be punched
or drawn from the hole or receptacle. A player may punch or draw the numbered
slips of paper from the holes or receptacles and obtain the prize established
for the game if the number drawn corresponds to a winning number or, if the
PUNCH BOARD includes the use of a seal card, a potential winning number.
   (oo)   RAFFLE. A form of bingo in which the one or more prizes are won by
one or more persons who have purchased a raffle ticket. The one or more winners
of the raffle are determined by drawing a ticket stub or other detachable
section from a receptacle containing ticket stubs or detachable sections
corresponding to all tickets sold for the raffle. The term does not include the
drawing of a ticket stub or other detachable section of a ticket purchased to
attend a professional sporting event if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The ticket stub or other detachable section is used to select the
winner of a free prize given away at the professional sporting event; and
      (2)   The cost of the ticket is the same as the cost of a ticket to the
professional sporting event on days when no free prize is given away.
   (pp)   REDEEMABLE VOUCHER. Any ticket, token, coupon, receipt or other
noncash representation of value.
   (qq)   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, body of communicants, or group
that is not organized or operated for profit and that gathers in common
membership for regular worship and religious observances.
   (rr)   REVOKE. To void permanently all rights and privileges of the holder
of a license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, § 2915.081 or § 2915.082 or a
charitable gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   (ss)   SCHEME OF CHANCE. 
      (1)   A slot machine unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3772, lottery
unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770, numbers game, pool conducted for
profit, or other scheme in which a participant gives a valuable consideration
for a chance to win a prize, but does not include bingo, a skill-based
amusement machine, or a pool not conducted for profit. “Scheme of chance”
includes the use of an electronic device to reveal the results of a game entry
if valuable consideration is paid, directly or indirectly, for a chance to win
a prize. Valuable consideration is deemed to be paid for a chance to win a
prize in the following instances:
         A.   Less than 50% of the goods or services sold by a scheme of chance
operator in exchange for game entries are used or redeemed by participants at
any one location;
         B.   Less than 50% of participants who purchase goods or services at
any one location do not accept, use, or redeem the goods or services sold or
purportedly sold;
         C.   More than 50% of prizes at any one location are revealed to
participants through an electronic device simulating a game of chance or a
“casino game” as defined in R.C. § 3772.01;
         D.   The good or service sold by a scheme of chance operator in
exchange for a game entry cannot be used or redeemed in the manner advertised;
         E.   A participant pays more than fair market value for goods or
services offered by a scheme of chance operator in order to receive one or more
game entries;
         F.   A participant may use the electronic device to purchase
additional game entries;
         G.   A participant may purchase additional game entries by using
points or credits won as prizes while using the electronic device;
         H.   A scheme of chance operator pays out in prize money more than 20%
of the gross revenue received at one location; or
         I.   A participant makes a purchase or exchange in order to obtain any
good or service that may be used to facilitate play on the electronic device.
      (2)   As used in this division, “electronic device” means a mechanical,
video, digital, or electronic machine or device that is capable of displaying
information on a screen or other mechanism and that is owned, leased, or
otherwise possessed by any person conducting a scheme of chance, or by that
person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or contractors. "Electronic
device" does not include an electronic instant bingo system.
   (tt)   SEAL CARD. A form of instant bingo that uses instant bingo tickets in
conjunction with a board or placard that contains one or more seals that, when
removed or opened, reveal predesignated winning numbers, letters or symbols.
   (uu)   SECURITY PERSONNEL. Any person who either is a Sheriff, Deputy
Sheriff, Marshal, Deputy Marshal, township constable, or member of an organized
police department of a municipal corporation or has successfully completed a
peace officer’s training course pursuant to R.C. §§ 109.71 to 109.79 and who is
hired to provide security for the premises on which bingo is conducted.
   (vv)   SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE.
      (1)   A.   A mechanical, video, digital or electronic device that rewards
the player or players, if at all, only with merchandise prizes or with
redeemable vouchers redeemable only for merchandise prizes, provided that with
respect to rewards for playing the game all of the following apply:
            1.   The wholesale value of a merchandise prize awarded as a result
of the single play of a machine does not exceed $10;
            2.   Redeemable vouchers awarded for any single play of a machine
are not redeemable for a merchandise prize with a wholesale value of more than
$10;
            3.   Redeemable vouchers are not redeemable for a merchandise prize
that has a wholesale value of more than $10 times the fewest number of single
plays necessary to accrue the redeemable vouchers required to obtain that
prize; and
            4.   Any redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes are distributed
at the site of the skill-based amusement machine at the time of play.
         B.   A card for the purchase of gasoline is a redeemable voucher for
purposes of division (1) of this definition even if the skill-based amusement
machine for the play of which the card is awarded is located at a place where
gasoline may not be legally distributed to the public or the card is not
redeemable at the location of, or at the time of playing, the skill-based
amusement machine.
      (2)   A device shall not be considered a skill-based amusement machine
and shall be considered a slot machine if it pays cash or one or more of the
following apply:
         A.   The ability of a player to succeed at the game is impacted by the
number or ratio of prior wins to prior losses of players playing the game;
         B.   Any reward of redeemable vouchers is not based solely on the
player achieving the object of the game or the players score;
         C.   The outcome of the game, or the value of the redeemable voucher
or merchandise prize awarded for winning the game, can be controlled by a
source other than any player playing the game;
         D.   The success of any player is or may be determined by a chance
event that cannot be altered by player actions;
         E.   The ability of any player to succeed at the game is determined by
game features not visible or known to the player;
         F.   The ability of the player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the exercise of a skill that no reasonable player could exercise.
      (3)   All of the following apply to any machine that is operated as
described in division (1) of this definition:
         A.   As used in this definition of “skill-based amusement machine”,
GAME and PLAY mean one event from the initial activation of the machine until
the results of play are determined without payment of additional consideration.
An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single game, play, contest,
competition or tournament may be awarded redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes based on the results of play.
         B.   Advance play for a single game, play, contest, competition or
tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the contest, competition
or tournament participation may be greater than a single non- contest,
competition or tournament play.
         C.   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest, competition
or tournament, that contest, competition or tournament has a defined starting
and ending date and is open to participants in competition for scoring and
ranking results toward the awarding of redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes that are stated prior to the start of the contest, competition, or
tournament.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) of this definition, the mere presence
of a device, such as a pin-setting, ball-releasing or scoring mechanism, that
does not contribute to or affect the outcome of the play of the game does not
make the device a skill- based amusement machine.
   (ww)   SLOT MACHINE.
      (1)   Either of the following:
         A.   Any mechanical, electronic, video or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player who gives the thing of value in the hope of gain;
         B.   Any mechanical, electronic, video or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player to conduct bingo or a scheme or game of chance.
      (2)   The term does not include a skill-based amusement machine, an
instant bingo ticket dispenser, or an electronic instant bingo system.
   (xx)   SPORTING ORGANIZATION. A hunting, fishing or trapping organization,
other than a college or high school fraternity or sorority, that is not
organized for profit, that is affiliated with a state or national sporting
organization, including, but not limited to, the League of Ohio Sportsmen, and
that has been in continuous existence in this state for a period of three
years.
   (yy)   SUSPEND. To interrupt temporarily all rights and privileges of the
holder of a license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, § 2915.081 or § 2915.082 or a
charitable gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   (zz)   SWEEPSTAKES. Any game, contest, advertising scheme or plan, or other
promotion where consideration is not required for a person to enter to win or
become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is based upon
chance. “Sweepstakes” does not include bingo as authorized under R.C. Chapter
2915, pari-mutuel wagering as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3769, lotteries
conducted by the State Lottery Commission as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3770,
and casino gaming as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3772.
   (aaa)   SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE.
      (1)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic machine or device that
is owned, leased, or otherwise possessed by any person conducting a
sweepstakes, or by that person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or
contractors, that is intended to be used by a sweepstakes participant, and that
is capable of displaying information on a screen or other mechanism. A device
is a sweepstakes terminal device if any of the following apply:
         A.   The device uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of
the prizes associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
         B.   The device utilizes software such that the simulated game
influences or determines the winning of or value of the prize.
         C.   The device selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of
entries.
         D.   The device utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a
predetermined sweepstakes entry.
         E.   The device predetermines the prize results and stores those
results for delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
         F.   The device utilizes software to create a game result.
         G.   The device reveals the prize incrementally, even though the
device does not influence the awarding of the prize or the value of any prize
awarded.
         H.   The device determines and associates the prize with an entry or
entries at the time the sweepstakes is entered.
      (2)   As used in this definition and in §
517.02:
         A.   “Enter.” The act by which a person becomes eligible to receive
any prize offered in a sweepstakes.
         B.   “Entry.” One event from the initial activation of the sweepstakes
terminal device until all the sweepstakes prize results from that activation
are revealed.
         C.   “Prize.” Any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit,
reward, or any other thing of value that may be transferred to a person,
whether possession of the prize is actually transferred, or placed on an
account or other record as evidence of the intent to transfer the prize.
         D.   “Sweepstakes terminal device facility.” Any location in this
state where a sweepstakes terminal device is provided to a sweepstakes
participant, except as provided in §
517.02(g) and R.C. § 2915.02(G).
   (bbb)   VETERAN’S ORGANIZATION. Any individual post or state headquarters of
a national veteran’s association or an auxiliary unit of any individual post of
a national veteran’s association, which post, state headquarters or auxiliary
unit is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation and either has received a
letter from the state headquarters of the national veteran’s association
indicating that the individual post or auxiliary unit is in good standing with
the national veteran’s association or has received a letter from the national
veteran’s association indicating that the state headquarters is in good
standing with the national veteran’s association. As used in this division,
NATIONAL VETERAN’S ASSOCIATION means any veteran’s association that has been in
continuous existence as such for a period of at least five years and either is
incorporated by an act of the United States Congress or has a national dues-
paying membership of at least 5,000 persons.
   (ccc)   VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER’S ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteer
firefighters, as defined in R.C. § 146.01, that is organized and operated
exclusively to provide  financial support for a volunteer fire department or a
volunteer fire company and that is recognized or ratified by a county,
municipal corporation or township.
   (ddd)   VOLUNTEER RESCUE SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Any organization of
volunteers organized to function as an emergency medical service organization,
as defined in R.C. § 4765.01.
   (eee)   YOUTH ATHLETIC ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for
profit, that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial support
to, or to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 21 years of age or
younger by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating or contributing to the
support of an athletic team, club, league or association.
   (fff)   YOUTH ATHLETIC PARK ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized
for profit, that satisfies both of the following:
      (1)   It owns, operates and maintains playing fields that satisfy both of
the following:
         A.   The playing fields are used for athletic activities by one or
more organizations, not organized for profit, each of which is organized and
operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or to operate, athletic
activities for persons who are 18 years of age or younger by means of
sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support of an
athletic team, club, league, or association.
         B.   The playing fields are not used for any profit-making activity at
any time during the year.
      (2)   It uses the proceeds of bingo it conducts exclusively for the
operation, maintenance, and improvement of its playing fields of the type
described in division (1) of this definition.
(R.C. § 2915.01)
§ 517.02 GAMBLING IN GENERAL.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking.
      (2)   Establish, promote or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission or exchange of information for use in
establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or with
any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood.
      (5)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
and either:
         A.   Give to another person any item described in R.C. § 2915.01(VV)
(1), (VV)(2), (VV)(3), or (VV)(4) as a prize for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes; or
         B.   Give to another person any merchandise prize, or a redeemable
voucher for a merchandise prize, the wholesale value of which is in excess of
$10 and which is awarded as a single entry for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes. Redeemable vouchers shall not be redeemable for a merchandise
prize that has a wholesale value of more than $10.
      (6)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a
         sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
without first obtaining a current annual “certificate of registration” from the
Attorney General as required by R.C. § 2915.02(F).
      (7)   With purpose to violate division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4),
(a)(5), or (a)(6) of this section, acquire, possess, control or operate any
gambling device.
   (b)   For purposes of division (a)(1) of this section, a person facilitates
bookmaking if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal bookmaking
operation, including without limitation placing a bet with a person engaged in
or facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of division (a)(2) of this
section, a person facilitates a game of chance conducted for profit or a scheme
of chance if the person in any way knowingly aids in the conduct or operation
of any such game or scheme, including without limitation playing any such game
or scheme.
   (c)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (d)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply:
         A.   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money.
         B.   The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3).
         C.   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran’s or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran’s or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance. A
charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran’s or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, if the veteran’s
or fraternal organization already has leased the premises 12 times during the
preceding year to charitable organizations for that purpose. If a charitable
organization leases premises from a veteran’s or fraternal organization to
conduct a festival described in this division, the charitable organization
shall not pay a rental rate for the premises per day of the festival that
exceeds the rental rate per bingo session that a charitable organization may
pay under R.C. § 2915.09(B)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance when it leases premises from another charitable organization to
conduct bingo games.
         D.   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, given, donated or otherwise transferred to any organization
that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt under IRC 501(a) and
described in IRC 501(c)(3).
         E.   The games of chance are not conducted during or within ten hours
of a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to R.C. §
2915.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. No person shall
receive any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or other
form of compensation, directly or indirectly, for operating or assisting in the
operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament, as defined in R.C. § 1531.01, operated
under a permit issued under R.C. § 1533.92.
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under R.C. § 2915.08.
   (e)   Division (d) of this section shall not be construed to authorize the
sale, lease or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct
games of chance, as granted by that division, by any charitable organization
that is granted that right.
   (f)   Any person desiring to conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a
sweepstakes with the use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes
terminal device facility shall first register with the Office of the Attorney
General and obtain an annual certificate of registration by providing a filing
fee of $200 and all information as required by rule adopted under R.C. §
2915.02(H). Not later than the tenth day of each month, each sweepstakes
terminal device operator shall file a sweepstakes terminal device monthly
report with the Attorney General and provide a filing fee of $50 and all
information required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H). All information
provided to the Attorney General under this division shall be available to law
enforcement upon request.
   (g)   (1)   A person may apply to the Attorney General, on a form prescribed
by the Attorney General, for a certificate of compliance that the person is not
operating a sweepstakes terminal device facility. The form shall require the
person to include the address of the business location where sweepstakes
terminal devices will be used and to make the following certifications:
         A.   That the person will not use more than two sweepstakes terminal
devices at the business location;
         B.   That the retail value of sweepstakes prizes to be awarded at the
business location using sweepstakes terminal devices during a reporting period
will be less than 3% of the gross revenue received at the business location
during the reporting period;
         C.   That no other form of gaming except lottery ticket sales as
authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770 will be conducted at the business location
or in an adjoining area of the business location;
         D.   That any sweepstakes terminal device at the business location
will not allow any deposit of any money, coin, or token, or the use of any
credit card, debit card, prepaid card, or any other method of similar payment
to be used, directly or indirectly, to participate in a sweepstakes;
         E.   That notification of any prize will not take place on the same
day as a participant’s sweepstakes entry; and
         F.   That the person consents to provide any other information to the
Attorney General as required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H).
      (2)   The filing fee for a certificate of compliance is $250. The
Attorney General may charge up to an additional $250 for reasonable expenses
resulting from any investigation related to an application for a certificate of
compliance.
      (3)   A certificate of compliance is effective for one year. The
certificate holder may reapply for a certificate of compliance. A person issued
a certificate of compliance shall file semiannual reports with the Attorney
General stating the number of sweepstakes terminal devices at the business
location and that the retail value of prizes awarded at the business location
using sweepstakes terminal devices is less than 3% of the gross revenue
received at the business location.
   (h)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense, gambling is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Notwithstanding this division, failing to file a sweepstakes terminal device
monthly report as required by division (f) of this section or the semiannual
report required by division (g) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2915.02(A) - (G), (K))
§ 517.03 OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (a)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy the premises for gambling in violation of R.C. §
2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   Recklessly permit the premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of R.C. § 2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of operating a
gambling house, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (c)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.03)
§ 517.04 PUBLIC GAMING.
   (a)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall or
other place of public accommodation, business, amusement or resort shall make a
bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (b)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control or
supervision of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of division (a) of this
section.
   (c)   Divisions (a) and (b) of this section do not prohibit conduct in
connection with gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, public gaming is a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense, public
gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (e)   Premises used or occupied in violation of division (b) of this section
constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.04)
§ 517.05 CHEATING.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following:
      (1)   The subject of a bet.
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event.
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance.
      (4)   Bingo.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Offer, give, solicit or accept anything of value to corrupt the
outcome of an athletic or sporting event.
      (2)   Engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome of an athletic or
sporting event.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
cheating. Except as otherwise provided in this division, cheating is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is
$1,000 or more or if the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense or of any theft offense as defined in R.C. § 2913.01, cheating is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
corrupting sports. Corrupting sports is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.05)
§ 517.06 RESPONSIBILITY OF CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION CONDUCTING BINGO GAME.
   (a)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo shall fail to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Own all of the equipment used to conduct bingo or lease that
equipment from a charitable organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, or
from the landlord of a premises where bingo is conducted, for a rental rate
that is not more than is customary and reasonable for that equipment;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (a)(3) of this section,
use all of the gross receipts from bingo for paying prizes, for reimbursement
of expenses for or for renting premises in which to conduct bingo, for
reimbursement of expenses for or for purchasing or leasing bingo supplies used
in conducting bingo, for reimbursement of expenses for or for hiring security
personnel, for reimbursement of expenses for or for advertising bingo, or for
reimbursement of other expenses or for other expenses listed in the definition
for EXPENSES in R.C. § 2915.01, provided that the amount of the receipts so
spent is not more than is customary and reasonable for a similar purchase,
lease, hiring, advertising or expense. If the building in which bingo is
conducted is owned by the charitable organization conducting bingo and the
bingo conducted includes a form of bingo described in division (1) of the
definition of BINGO in R.C. § 2915.01, the charitable organization may deduct
from the total amount of the gross receipts from each session a sum equal to
the lesser of $600 or 45% of the gross receipts from the bingo described in
that division as consideration for the use of the premises;
      (3)   Use, or give, donate, or otherwise transfer, all of the net profit
derived from bingo described in R.C. § 2915.01(O)(1) for a charitable purpose
listed in its license application and described in R.C. § 2915.01(V), or
distribute all of the net profit from the proceeds of the sale of instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo as stated in its license application and in
accordance with R.C. § 2915.101, as applicable.
   (b)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of BINGO in R.C. § 2915.01 shall fail to do any
of the following:
      (1)   Conduct the bingo game on premises that are owned by the charitable
organization, on premises that are owned by another charitable organization and
leased from that charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of the
lesser of $650 per bingo session or 45% of the gross receipts of the bingo
session, on premises that are leased from a person other than a charitable
organization for a rental rate that is not more than is customary and
reasonable for premises that are similar in location, size and quality but not
in excess of $450 per bingo session, or on premises that are owned by a person
other than a charitable organization, that are leased from that person by
another charitable organization, and that are subleased from that other
charitable organization by the charitable organization for a rental rate not in
excess of $450 per bingo session. No charitable organization is required to pay
property taxes or assessments on premises that the charitable organization
leases from another person to conduct bingo sessions. If the charitable
organization leases from a person other than a charitable organization the
premises on which it conducts bingo sessions, the lessor of the premises shall
provide only the premises to the organization and shall not provide the
organization with bingo game operators, security personnel, concessions or
concession operators, bingo supplies, or any other type of service. A
charitable organization shall not lease or sublease premises that it owns or
leases to more than three other charitable organizations per calendar week for
the purpose of conducting bingo sessions on the premises. A person that is not
a charitable organization shall not lease premises that it owns, leases or
otherwise is empowered to lease to more than three charitable organizations per
calendar week for conducting bingo sessions on the premises. In no case shall
more than nine bingo sessions be conducted on any premises in any calendar
week;
      (2)   Display its license conspicuously at the premises where the bingo
session is conducted;
      (3)   Conduct the bingo session in accordance with division (1) of the
definition of BINGO in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (c)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of BINGO in R.C. § 2915.01 shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for operating a bingo
session that is conducted by the charitable organization or for preparing,
selling or serving food or beverages at the site of the bingo session, permit
any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to pay
compensation to any bingo game operator who prepares, sells or serves food or
beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable organization, or
permit any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to prepare,
sell or serve food or beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, if the auxiliary unit or society pays any compensation to the
bingo game operators who prepare, sell or serve the food or beverages;
      (2)   Pay consulting fees to any person for any services performed in
relation to the bingo session;
      (3)   Pay concession fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in the bingo session;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(4) of this section,
conduct more than three bingo sessions in any seven-day period. A volunteer
firefighter’s organization or a volunteer rescue service organization that
conducts not more than five bingo sessions in a calendar year may conduct more
than three bingo sessions in a seven-day period after notifying the Attorney
General when it will conduct the sessions;
      (5)   Pay out more than $6,000 in prizes for bingo games described in
R.C. § 2915.01(S)(1) during any bingo session that is conducted by the
charitable organization. PRIZES does not include awards from the conduct of
instant bingo;
      (6)   Conduct a bingo session at any time during the eight-hour period
between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., at any time during, or within ten hours of, a
bingo game conducted for amusement only pursuant to R.C. § 2915.12 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, at any premises not specified on
its license, or on any day of the week or during any time period not specified
on its license. This division does not prohibit the sale of instant bingo
tickets beginning at 9:00 a.m. for a bingo session that begins at 10:00 a.m. If
circumstances make it impractical for the charitable organization to conduct a
bingo session at the premises, or on the day of the week or at the time
specified on its license or if a charitable organization wants to conduct bingo
sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than the day or time specified
on its license, the charitable organization may apply in writing to the
Attorney General for an amended license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08(J). A
charitable organization may apply twice in each calendar year for an amended
license to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than
the day or time specified on its license. If the amended license is granted,
the organization may conduct bingo sessions at the premises, on the day of the
week, and at the time specified on its amended license;
      (7)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, is under the age of 18 to work as a bingo game operator;
      (8)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any
jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator;
      (9)   Permit the lessor of the premises on which the bingo session is
conducted, if the lessor is not a charitable organization, to provide the
charitable organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions, bingo supplies or any other type of service;
      (10)   Purchase or lease bingo supplies from any person except a
distributor issued a license under R.C. § 2915.081;
      (11)   A.   Use or permit the use of electronic bingo aids except under
the following circumstances:
            1.   For any single participant, not more than 90 bingo faces can
be played using an electronic bingo aid or aids.
            2.   The charitable organization shall provide a participant using
an electronic bingo aid with corresponding paper bingo cards or sheets.
            3.   The total price of bingo faces played with an electronic bingo
aid shall be equal to the total price of the same number of bingo faces played
with a paper bingo card or sheet sold at the same bingo session but without an
electronic bingo aid.
            4.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be part of an electronic
network other than a network that includes only bingo aids and devices that are
located on the premises at which the bingo is being conducted or be interactive
with any device not located on the premises at which the bingo is being
conducted.
            5.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to participate in bingo
that is conducted at a location other than the location at which the bingo
session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
            6.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to provide for the
input of numbers and letters announced by a bingo caller other than the bingo
caller who physically calls the numbers and letters at the location at which
the bingo session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
         B.   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119 that govern the use of electronic bingo aids. The rules may include
a requirement that an electronic bingo aid be capable of being audited by the
Attorney General to verify the number of bingo cards or sheets played during
each bingo session.
      (12)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under 18 years of age to play bingo described in division (1)
of the definition of BINGO in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (d)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (d)(3) of this section,
no charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator, and no bingo
game operator shall receive or accept, any commission, wage, salary, reward,
tip, donation, gratuity or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly,
regardless of the source, for conducting bingo or providing other work or labor
at the site of bingo during a bingo session.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (d)(3) of this section, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator any commission,
wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation,
directly or indirectly regardless of the source, for conducting instant bingo,
electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session at the site of
instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (d) of this section prohibits an employee
of a fraternal organization, veteran’s organization or sporting organization
from selling instant bingo tickets or cards to the organization’s members or
invited guests, as long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any receipts of bingo.
   (e)   Notwithstanding division (b)(1) of this section, a charitable
organization that, prior to December 6, 1977, has entered into written
agreements for the lease of premises it owns to another charitable organization
or other charitable organizations for the conducting of bingo sessions so that
more than two bingo sessions are conducted per calendar week on the premises,
and a person that is not a charitable organization and that, prior to December
6, 1977, has entered into written agreements for the lease of premises it owns
to charitable organizations for the conducting of more than two bingo sessions
per calendar week on the premises, may continue to lease the premises to those
charitable organizations, provided that no more than four sessions are
conducted per calendar week, that the lessor organization or person has
notified the Attorney General in writing of the organizations that will conduct
the sessions and the days of the week and the times of the day on which the
sessions will be conducted, that the initial lease entered into with each
organization that will conduct the sessions was filed with the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977, and that each organization that will conduct the
sessions was issued a license to conduct bingo games by the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977.
   (f)   This section does not prohibit a bingo licensed charitable
organization or a game operator from giving any person an instant bingo ticket
as a prize.
   (g)   Whoever violates division (a)(2) of this section is guilty of
illegally conducting a bingo game, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a)(1), (a)(3), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), (c)(1) to (c)(11), or (d) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (a)(1), (a)(3), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)
(3), (c)(1) to (c)(11), or (d) of this section, a violation of division (a)(1),
(a)(3), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), (c)(1) to (c)(11), or (d) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates division (c)(12) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (c)(12) of this
section, a violation of division (c)(12) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.09)
§ 517.07 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS BY CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS.
   (a)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to R.C. § 2915.02(D), or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall fail to maintain the following records for at least three
years from the date on which the bingo or game of chance is conducted:
      (1)   An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each electronic instant bingo game by
serial number, each raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance, and
an itemized list of the gross profits of each game of instant bingo by serial
number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number;
      (2)   An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;
      (3)   A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of instant
bingo by serial number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number,
and the name, address, and social security number of all persons who are
winners of prizes of $600 or more in value;
      (4)   An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of bingo or
game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to whom the
money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net profit of bingo, or
the money or assets received from a game of chance, for any charitable or other
purpose set forth in R.C. § 2915.01(V), § 2915.02(D) or § 2915.101, a list of
each purpose and an itemized list of each expenditure for each purpose;
      (5)   The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;
      (6)   A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if the
receipts were excluded from GROSS RECEIPTS under R.C. § 2915.01(T);
      (7)   An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game, or each game of instant bingo or electronic
instant bingo conducted by the charitable organization in the sale of food and
beverages by the charitable organization or by an auxiliary unit or society of
the charitable organization, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses.
   (b)   A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is required
to maintain pursuant to division (a) of this section at its principal place of
business in this state or at its headquarters in this state and shall notify
the Attorney General of the location at which those records are kept.
   (c)   The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in division
(1) or (2) of the definition of BINGO in R.C. § 2915.01 shall be deposited into
a checking account devoted exclusively to the bingo session or game. Payments
for allowable expenses incurred in conducting the bingo session or game and
payments to recipients of some or all of the net profit of the bingo session or
game shall be made only by checks or electronic fund transfers drawn on the
bingo session or game account.
   (d)   Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory of
all of its bingo supplies as of the first day of November of each year.
   (e)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping and reporting to
ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance are properly accounted
for.
   (f)   A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use in this state.
The record shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;
      (2)   The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;
      (3)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies;
      (4)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each charitable organization.
   (g)   A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this state. The record shall
include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;
      (2)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers;
      (3)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each distributor.
   (h)   (1)   The Attorney General or any law enforcement agency may do all of
the following:
         A.   Investigate any charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer or any officer, agent, trustee, member, or employee of the
organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         B.   Examine the accounts and records of the charitable organization,
distributor, or manufacturer or of any officer, agent, trustee, member, or
employee of the organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         C.   Conduct inspections, audits, and observations of bingo or games
of chance;
         D.   Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of
chance are conducted or where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed;
         E.   Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 has occurred
and to determine whether R.C. § 2915.11, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, has been complied with.
      (2)   If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe
that a charitable organization, distributor, or manufacturer or an officer,
agent, trustee, member, or employee of the organization, distributor, or
manufacturer has violated any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
the law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper court to enforce
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, provided that the law enforcement agency
shall give written notice to the Attorney General when commencing an action as
described in this division.
   (i)   No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold, or deny access to
any accounts or records of a charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer that have been requested for examination, or obstruct, impede, or
interfere with any inspection, audit, or observation of bingo or a game of
chance, of premises where bingo or a game of chance is conducted, or of
premises where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed, or refuse to
comply with any reasonable request of, or obstruct, impede, or interfere with
any other reasonable action undertaken by, the Attorney General or a law
enforcement agency pursuant to division (h) of this section.
   (j)   Whoever violates division (a) or (i) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.10)
§ 517.08 QUALIFICATIONS OF BINGO GAME OPERATOR.
   (a)   No person shall be a bingo game operator unless the person is 18 years
of age or older.
   (b)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or a gambling offense in
any jurisdiction shall be a bingo game operator.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. Whoever violates division (b) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.11)
§ 517.09 EXEMPTION FOR BINGO GAMES CONDUCTED FOR AMUSEMENT.
   (a)   Sections
517.06 through
517.13 and
517.15 do not apply to bingo games that are conducted for the purpose of
amusement only. A bingo game is conducted for the purpose of amusement only if
it complies with all of the requirements specified in either division (a)(1) or
(a)(2) of this section.
      (1)   A.   The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value, including an admission fee or any fee, for bingo cards or sheets,
objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo, for the
privilege of participating in the bingo game, or to defray any costs of the
game, or pay tips or make donations during or immediately before or after the
bingo game.
         B.   All prizes awarded during the course of the game are non-
monetary, and in the form of merchandise, goods or entitlement to goods or
services only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is
less than $100.00.
         C.   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or
other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         D.   The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten hours
of any of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   A scheme or game of chance, or bingo described in R.C. §
2915.01(O)(2).
         E.   The number of players participating in the bingo game does not
exceed 50.
      (2)   A.   The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value
as an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than $0.25 to purchase
a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the spaces or other devices used in
playing bingo.
         B.   The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for
bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed $100.00.
         C.   All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover
spaces or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay winners
monetary and nonmonetary prizes and to provide refreshments.
         D.   The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not
exceed $100.00.
         E.   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or
other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         F.   The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten hours of
either of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.15 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   A scheme of chance or a game of chance, or bingo described in
R.C. § 2915.01(O)(2).
         G.   All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo
game is conducted.
         H.   The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and
not more than twice in a calendar week.
   (b)   The Attorney General or any local law enforcement agency may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted for
purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the purported
amusement bingo game does not comply with the requirements of either division
(a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section. A local law enforcement agency may proceed by
action in the proper court to enforce this section if the local law enforcement
agency gives written notice to the Attorney General when commencing the action.
(R.C. § 2915.12)
§ 517.10 PROHIBITIONS WHERE INSTANT BINGO GAME IS CONDUCTED.
   (a)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2915.09(A)(1), (A)
(2) and (A)(3), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         A.   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), is
described in IRC 501(c)(3), is a charitable organization as defined in R.C. §
2915.01, is in good standing in the state pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08, and is in
compliance with R.C. Chapter 1716;
         B.   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), is
described in IRC 501(c)(7), (c)(8), (c)(10) or (c)(19) or is a veteran’s
organization described in IRC 501(c)(4), and conducts instant bingo under R.C.
§ 2915.13.
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization’s license issued pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a
bingo game operator in the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under R.C. §
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under 18 years of
age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)   Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation to
an instant bingo game, except as provided in R.C. § 2915.093(D);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   A.   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo game
operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo tickets
or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are working at a
premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold;
         B.   Division (a)(12)A. of this section does not prohibit a licensed
charitable organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an
instant bingo ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant
in an instant bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be
sold or provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the
manufacturer on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare.
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold, conspicuously at each
premises at which it sells instant bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under R.C. § 2915.081 as reflected on an
invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information required
by R.C. § 2915.10(E);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold;
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (b)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease, or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (c)   Pursuant to R.C. § 2915.091(C), the Attorney General may adopt rules
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119 that govern the conduct of instant bingo by
charitable organizations.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section or a rule adopted under
division (c) of this section is guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (a) of this section or of such a rule adopted under
division (c) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.091)
§ 517.11 RAFFLE DRAWINGS.
   (a)   (1)   Subject to division (a)(2) of this section, a person or entity
may conduct a raffle to raise money for the person or entity and does not need
a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle drawing that is not for
profit if the person or entity is any of the following:
         A.   Exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         B.   A school district, community school established under R.C.
Chapter 3314, STEM school established under R.C. Chapter 3326, college-
preparatory boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328, or chartered
nonpublic school;
         C.   Exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or
501(c)(19).
      (2)   If a person or entity that is described in division (a)(1)C. of
this section conducts a raffle, the person or entity shall distribute at least
50% of the net profit from the raffle to a charitable purpose described in R.C.
§ 2915.01(V) or to a department or agency of the federal government, the state,
or any political subdivision.
   (b)   Except as provided in division (a) of this section, no person shall
conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is not for
profit.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of illegal
conduct of a raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
conduct of a raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (b) of this section,
illegal conduct of a raffle is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.092)
§ 517.12 INSTANT BINGO OTHER THAN AT BINGO SESSIONS.
   (a)   As used in this section, RETAIL INCOME FROM ALL COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY
means the income that a person receives from the provision of  goods, services
or activities that are provided at the location where instant bingo other than
at a bingo session is conducted, including the sale of instant bingo tickets. A
religious organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC
501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3), at not more than one location at which
it conducts its charitable programs, may include donations from its members and
guests as retail income.
   (b)   (1)   If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08, the charitable instant bingo organization shall enter into a written
contract with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is
conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in the conduct of instant
bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each location where the instant
bingo other than at a bingo session is being conducted, and identify the owner
or lessor of each location.
      (2)   A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C. §
2915.08 is not required to enter into a written contract with the owner or
lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is conducted provided that
the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of the instant bingo other
than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct of the instant bingo
other than at a bingo session at that location is not more than five days per
calendar year and not more than ten hours per day.
   (c)   Except as provided in division (f) of this section, no charitable
instant bingo organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at a location where the primary source of retail income from all
commercial activity at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (d)   (1)   The owner or lessor of a location that enters into a contract
pursuant to division (b) of this section shall pay the full gross profit to the
charitable instant bingo organization, in return for the deal of instant bingo
tickets. The owner or lessor may retain the money that the owner or lessor
receives for selling the instant bingo tickets, provided, however, that after
the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall pay to the charitable instant
bingo organization the value of any unredeemed instant bingo prizes remaining
in the deal of instant bingo tickets. As used in this division, FULL GROSS
PROFIT means the amount by which the total receipts of all instant bingo
tickets, if the deal has been sold in full, exceeds the amount that would be
paid out if all prizes were redeemed.
      (2)   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay 6% of the total
gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose of
reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this division.
      (3)   As used in this division, EXPENSES means those items provided for
in R.C. § 2915.01(GG)(4), (GG)(5), (GG)(6), (GG)(7), (GG)(8), (GG)(12), and
(GG)(13) and that percentage of the owner’s or lessor’s rent for the location
where instant bingo is conducted. Expenses, in the aggregate, shall not exceed
6% of the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets.
   (e)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a
contract entered into pursuant to division (b) of this section with an owner or
lessor of a location;
      (2)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to division (b) of this section with a new owner or
lessor of a location; and
      (3)   That the charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct
by the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that
is in violation of R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (f)   Division (c) of this section does not apply to a volunteer
firefighter’s organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3), that conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session on the premises where the organization conducts
firefighter training, that has conducted instant bingo continuously for at
least five years prior to July 1, 2003, and that, during each of those five
years, had gross receipts of at least $1,500,000.
(R.C. § 2915.093)
   (b)   (1)   Subject to the requirements of R.C. §§ 2915.14 and 2915.15
concerning electronic instant bingo, a veteran's organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization authorized to conduct a bingo session
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2915 may conduct instant bingo, electronic instant
bingo, or both other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08 if all of the following apply:
         A.   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to 12
hours during any day, provided that the sale does not begin earlier than 10:00
a.m. and ends not later than 2:00 a.m.
         B.   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to
its own premises and to its own members and invited guests.
         C.   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC 509
(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization
that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3),
and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written contract with
that organization as required in division (g)(2) of this section.
      (2)   If a veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo
pursuant to division (g)(1) of this section is raising money for another
organization that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is
either a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal
place of business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c), and that is in good standing in
this state, the veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall execute a written contract with the organization that is
described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit
or an organization that maintains its principal place of business in this
state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and
described in IRC 501(c), and that is in good standing in this state in order to
conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo. That contract shall include
a statement of the percentage of the net proceeds that the veteran's,
fraternal, or sporting organization will be distributing to the organization
that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC
501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this
state.
      (3)   A.   If a veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or
sporting organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo pursuant to division (g)(1) of this section has been issued a liquor
permit under R.C. Chapter 4303, that permit may be subject to suspension,
revocation, or cancellation if the veteran's organization, fraternal
organization, or sporting organization violates a provision of this chapter or
R.C. Chapter 2915.
         B.   No veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to division (g)(2) of
this section shall violate any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
or permit, aid, or abet any other person in violating any provision of this
chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (4)   A veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to the organization with which the
veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting organization has
entered into a written contract.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (g) of this section is guilty of illegal
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, illegal instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (g) of this section, illegal instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.13)
§ 517.13 RESTRICTIONS ON OWNER OR LESSOR OF LOCATION AT INSTANT BINGO.
   (a)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in R.C. § 2915.093, with the charitable instant bingo
organization to assist in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session.
   (b)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (c)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (a) of this section shall violate any provision of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid or abet any other person in
violating any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (d)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (a) of this section shall violate the terms of the
contract.
   (e)   (1)   Whoever violates division (c) or (d) of this section is guilty
of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (c) or
(d) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly violates division (c) or (d) of this section, any license that the
owner or lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner’s or
lessor’s premises that is issued by the state or a political subdivision is
subject to suspension, revocation or payment of a monetary penalty at the
request of the Attorney General.
(R.C. § 2915.094)
§ 517.14 SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINES; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (a)   No person shall give to another person any item described in division
(ff)(1), (ff)(2), (ff)(3) or (ff)(4) of §
517.01 in exchange for a noncash prize, toy or novelty received as a reward for
playing or operating a skill-based amusement machine or for a free or reduced-
price game won on a skill-based amusement machine.
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of skill-based
amusement machine prohibited conduct. A violation of division (a) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree for each redemption of a prize
that is involved in the violation. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (a) of this section, a violation of that
division is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.06)
   (c)   Any regulation of skill-based amusement machines shall be governed by
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 and not by R.C. Chapter 1345.
(R.C. § 2915.061)
§ 517.15 ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (a)   No charitable organization shall conduct electronic instant bingo
unless all of the following are true:
      (1)   The organization is a veteran's organization described in R.C. §
2915.01(J), or is a fraternal organization described in R.C. § 2915.01(L), and
the organization qualified as a veteran's organization or fraternal
organization, as applicable, on or before June 30, 2021.
      (2)   The organization is a veteran's organization described in IRC 501
(c)(4) or is, and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the organization
is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), and is described in
IRC 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or 501(c)(19).
      (3)   The organization has not conducted a raffle in violation of R.C. §
2915.092(B) using an electronic raffle machine, as described in Ohio Veterans
and Fraternal Charitable Coalition v. DeWine, Case No. 13-CV-13610 (C.P.
Franklin Co. February 23, 2018), at any time on or after January 1, 2022.
   (b)   No charitable organization that conducts electronic instant bingo
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Possess an electronic instant bingo system that was not obtained in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 2915 or with any rule adopted under R.C. Chapter
2915;
      (2)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on any day, at any time, or on any
premises not specified on the organization's type II or type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Hold more than one valid license to conduct electronic instant
bingo at any one time;
      (4)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on more than one premises or on
any premises other than the charitable organization's principal place of
business;
      (5)   Operate more than ten electronic bingo systems at the premises on
which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo under its
license;
      (6)   Fail to display both of the following conspicuously at the premises
on which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo:
         A.   The charitable organization's bingo license;
         B.   The serial number of each deal of electronic instant bingo
tickets being sold.
      (7)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should have
known, to be under 18 years of age to play electronic instant bingo;
      (8)   Sell or provide to any person an electronic instant bingo ticket
for a price different from the price displayed on the game flare for that deal,
except that the charitable organization may give a participant who wins an
electronic instant bingo game an electronic instant bingo ticket as a prize in
place of a cash prize;
      (9)   Fail, once an electronic instant bingo deal is begun, to continue
to sell tickets in that deal until all prizes have been awarded;
      (10)   Permit any person whom the organization knows, or should have
known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction
to be a bingo game operator in the conduct of electronic instant bingo;
      (11)   Permit a bingo game operator to play electronic instant bingo;
      (12)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(12)B. of this
section, pay compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting electronic
instant bingo.
         B.   Division (b)(12)A. of this section does not prohibit an employee
of a veteran's organization or fraternal organization from redeeming electronic
instant bingo tickets or vouchers for the organization's members or invited
guests, so long as no portion of the employee's compensation is paid from any
bingo receipts.
      (13)   Pay consulting fees to any person in relation to electronic
instant bingo.
   (c)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or otherwise provide or offer to
provide an electronic instant bingo system to any person for use in this
municipality unless the electronic instant bingo system has been approved under
R.C. § 2915.15.
   (d)   Whoever knowingly violates division (a), (b), or (c) of this section
or a rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.14(D) is guilty of illegal electronic
instant bingo conduct. Illegal electronic instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (a) or (b) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or state law, or of a rule adopted
under R.C. § 2915.14(D), illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.14)
§ 517.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.
CHAPTER 521: HEALTH, SAFETY AND SANITATION
Section
521.01   Abandoned refrigerators and airtight containers
521.02   Venting of heaters and burners
521.03   Barricades and warning lights
521.04   Sidewalk obstructions; damage or injury
521.05   Notice to fill lots, remove putrid substances
521.06   Duty to keep sidewalks in repair and clean
521.07   Fences
521.08   Littering
521.09   Noxious odors; filthy accumulations; polluting and diverting
watercourses
521.10   Cleaning of premises
521.11   Weed cutting required
521.12   Spreading contagion
521.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Tampering with safety devices, see §
541.04
Statutory reference:
   Excavation liability, see R.C. §§ 723.49 et seq.
   Flagpole installation in sidewalk, see R.C. § 723.012
   Nuisances, see R.C. Ch. 3767
   Removal of noxious weeds or litter, see R.C. §§ 731.51 et seq.
§ 521.01 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS AND AIRTIGHT CONTAINERS.
   (a)   No person shall abandon, discard or knowingly permit to remain on
premises under the person’s control, in a place accessible to children, any
abandoned or discarded icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or semi-airtight
container which has a capacity of one and one-half cubic feet or more and an
opening of 50 square inches or more and which has a door or lid equipped with a
hinge, latch or other fastening device capable of securing the door or lid,
without rendering the equipment harmless to human life by removing the hinges,
latches or other hardware which may cause a person to be confined therein. This
section shall not apply to an icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or semi-
airtight container located in that part of a building occupied by a dealer,
warehouse or repairer.
(R.C. § 3767.29)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 3767.99(B))
§ 521.02 VENTING OF HEATERS AND BURNERS.
   (a)   The use of a brazier, salamander, space heater, room heater, furnace,
water heater, or other burner or heater, using wood, coal, coke, fuel oil,
kerosene, gasoline, natural gas, liquid petroleum gas or similar fuel, and
tending to give off carbon monoxide or other harmful gases, must comply with
the following provisions:
      (1)   When used in living quarters, or in any enclosed building or space
in which persons are usually present, shall be used with a flue or vent so
designed, installed and maintained as to vent the products of combustion
outdoors; except in storage, factory or industrial buildings which are provided
with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide poisoning:
and
      (2)   When used as a portable or temporary burner or heater at a
construction site, or in a warehouse, shed or structure in which persons are
temporarily present, shall be vented as provided in division (a)(1) or used
with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide poisoning.
   (b)   This section does not apply to domestic ranges, laundry stoves, gas
logs installed in a fireplace with an adequate flue, or hot plates, unless the
same are used as space or room heaters.
   (c)   No person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in charge
or occupant of premises, negligently permit the use of a burner or heater in
violation of the standards for venting and ventilation provided in this
section.
   (d)   Division (a) above does not apply to any kerosene-fired space or room
heater that is equipped with an automatic extinguishing tip-over device, or to
any natural gas-fired or liquid petroleum gas-fired space or room heater that
is equipped with an oxygen depletion safety shut-off system, and that has its
fuel piped from a source outside the building in which it is located, that are
approved by an authoritative source recognized by the State Fire Marshal in the
State Fire Code adopted by him or her under R.C. § 3737.82.
   (e)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules to ensure the safe use of
unvented kerosene, natural gas or liquid petroleum gas heaters exempted from
division (a) above when used in assembly buildings, business buildings, high
hazard buildings, institutional buildings, mercantile buildings and type R-
1 and R-2 residential buildings, as these groups of buildings are defined in
rules adopted by the Board of Building Standards under R.C. § 3781.10. No
person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in charge or occupant
of premises, negligently permit the use of a heater in violation of any rules
adopted under this division.
   (f)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules prescribing standards for
written instructions containing ventilation requirements and warning of any
potential fire hazards that may occur in using a kerosene, natural gas or
liquid petroleum gas heater. No person shall sell or offer for sale any
kerosene, natural gas or liquid petroleum gas heater unless the manufacturer
provides with the heater written instructions that comply with any rules
adopted under this division.
   (g)   No product labeled as a fuel additive for kerosene heaters and having
a flash point below 100°F or 37.8°C shall be sold, offered for sale or used in
any kerosene space heater.
   (h)   No device that prohibits any safety feature on a kerosene, natural gas
or liquid petroleum gas space heater from operating shall be sold, offered for
sale or used in connection with any kerosene, natural gas or liquid petroleum
gas space heater.
   (i)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any kerosene-fired, natural gas
or liquid petroleum gas- fired heater that is not exempt from division (a)
above, unless it is marked conspicuously by the manufacturer on the container
with the phrase “Not Approved For Home Use.”
   (j)   No person shall use a cabinet-type, liquid petroleum gas-fired heater
having a fuel source within the heater, inside any building, except as
permitted by the State Fire Marshal in the State Fire Code adopted by him or
her under R.C. § 3737.82.
(R.C. § 3701.82)
   (k)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(B))
§ 521.03 BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   (a)   No person shall abandon or knowingly permit to remain on public or
private property, any excavation, well, cesspool or structure which is in the
process of construction, reconstruction, repair or alteration unless the same
is adequately protected by suitable barricades and guarded by warning devices
or lights at night so that the condition will not reasonably prove dangerous to
life or limb.
   (b)   No person shall destroy, remove, damage or extinguish any barricade or
warning light that is placed for the protection of the public so as to prevent
injury to life or limb.
   (c)   Any owner or agent in control of a premises upon which a basement,
cellar, well or cistern has been abandoned due to demolition, failure to build
or any other reason shall cause the same to be filled to the ground surface
with rock, gravel, earth or other suitable material.
   (d)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
§ 521.04 SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS; DAMAGE OR INJURY.
   (a)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a sidewalk or
playground any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or other articles which may
damage property of another or injure any person or animal traveling along or
upon the sidewalk or playground.
   (b)   No person shall walk on, or allow any animal upon, or injure or deface
in any way, any soft or newly laid sidewalk pavement.
   (c)   No person shall place, deposit or maintain any merchandise, goods,
material or equipment upon any sidewalk so as to obstruct pedestrian traffic
thereon except for such reasonable time as may be actually necessary for the
delivery or pickup of the articles. In no case shall the obstruction remain on
the sidewalk for more than one hour.
   (d)   No person shall unload upon, or transport any heavy merchandise,
goods, material or equipment over or across any sidewalk or curb without first
placing some sufficient protection over the pavement to protect against damage
or injury.
   (e)   No person shall allow any cellar or trap door, coal chute or elevator
or lift opening in any sidewalk to remain open without providing suitable
safeguards to protect and warn pedestrian traffic of the dangerous conditions.
   (f)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
§ 521.05 NOTICE TO FILL LOTS, REMOVE PUTRID SUBSTANCES.
   (a)   No person shall fail to comply with the following requirements within
the lawful time after service or publication of the notice or resolution is
made as required by law: to fill or drain any lot or land or remove all putrid
substances therefrom, or remove all obstructions from culverts, covered drains
or natural watercourses as provided in R.C. § 715.47.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
§ 521.06 DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS IN REPAIR AND CLEAN.
   (a)   No owner or occupant of lots or lands abutting any sidewalk, curb or
gutter shall fail to keep the sidewalks, curbs and gutters in repair and free
from snow, ice or any nuisance, and to remove from the sidewalks, curbs or
gutters all snow and ice accumulated thereon within a reasonable time, which
will ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after any storm during which the snow and
ice has accumulated.
(R.C. § 723.011)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 521.07 FENCES.
   (a)   No person shall erect or maintain any fence charged with electrical
current.
   (b)   No person shall erect or maintain a barbed wire fence which abuts or
is adjacent to any public street or sidewalk. This division (b) does not
prevent the placement and use of not more than two strands of barbed wire on
top of a fence other than a barbed wire fence, provided the strands are not
less than 48 inches from the ground.
   (c)   Barbed wire partition fences may be erected and maintained as provided
in R.C. § 971.03.
   (d)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
§ 521.08 LITTERING.
   (a)   No person, regardless of intent, shall deposit litter or cause litter
to be deposited on any public property, on private property not owned by him or
her, or in or on waters of the state, unless one of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is directed to do so by a public official as part of a
litter collection drive.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (b) of this section, the person
deposits the litter in a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents its being
carried away by the elements.
      (3)   The person is issued a permit or license covering the litter
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3734 or 6111.
   (b)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly deposit litter,
or cause it to be deposited, in a litter receptacle located on any public
property or on any private property not owned by him or her, unless one of the
following applies:
      (1)   The litter was generated or located on the property on which the
litter receptacle is located.
      (2)   The person is directed to do so by a public official as part of a
litter collection drive.
      (3)   The person is directed to do so by a person whom he or she
reasonably believes to have the privilege to use the litter receptacle.
      (4)   The litter consists of any of the following:
         A.   The contents of a litter bag or container of a type and size
customarily carried and used in a motor vehicle.
         B.   The contents of an ash tray of a type customarily installed or
carried and used in a motor vehicle.
         C.   Beverage containers and food sacks, wrappings and containers of a
type and in an amount that reasonably may be expected to be generated during
routine commuting or business or recreational travel by a motor vehicle.
         D.   Beverage containers, food sacks, wrappings, containers and other
materials of a type and in an amount that reasonably may be expected to be
generated during a routine day by a person and deposited in a litter receptacle
by a casual passerby.
   (c)   (1)   As used in division (b)(1) of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY
includes any private property open to the public for the conduct of business,
the provision of a service, or upon the payment of a fee, but does not include
any private property to which the public otherwise does not have a right of
access.
      (2)   As used in division (b)(4) of this section, CASUAL PASSERBY means a
person who does not have depositing litter in a litter receptacle as his or her
primary reason for traveling to or by the property on which the litter
receptacle is located.
   (d)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   AUXILIARY CONTAINER. Means a bag, can, cup, food or beverage
service item, container, keg, bottle, or other packaging to which all of the
following apply:
         A.   It is designed to be either single use or reusable.
         B.   It is made of cloth, paper, plastic, foamed or expanded plastic,
cardboard, corrugated material, aluminum, metal, glass, postconsumer recycled
material, or similar materials or substances, including coated, laminated, or
multilayered substrates.
         C.   It is designed for consuming, transporting, or protecting
merchandise, food, or beverages from or at a food service operation, retail
food establishment, grocery, or any other type of retail, manufacturing, or
distribution establishment.
      (2)   DEPOSIT. To throw, drop, discard or place.
      (3)   LITTER. Includes garbage, trash, waste, rubbish, ashes, cans,
bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture, glass,
auxiliary containers, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
      (4)   LITTER RECEPTACLE. A dumpster, trash can, trash bin, garbage can or
similar container in which litter is deposited for removal.
   (e)   This section may be enforced by any sheriff, deputy sheriff, police
officer of a municipal corporation, police constable or officer of a township,
or township or joint police district, wildlife officer designated under R.C. §
1531.13, natural resources officer appointed under R.C. § 1501.24, forest-fire
investigator appointed under R.C. § 1503.09, conservancy district police
officer, inspector of nuisances of a county, or any other law enforcement
officer within the law enforcement officer’s jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 3767.32)
   (f)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. The sentencing court may, in addition to or in
lieu of the penalty provided in this division, require a person who violates
this section to remove litter from any public or private property or in or on
waters of the state.
(R.C. § 3767.99(C))
§ 521.09 NOXIOUS ODORS; FILTHY ACCUMULATIONS; POLLUTING AND DIVERTING
WATERCOURSES.
   (a)   No person shall erect, continue to use or maintain a building,
structure or place for the exercise of a trade, employment or business or for
keeping or feeding an animal which, by occasioning noxious exhalations or
noisome or offensive smells, becomes injurious to the health, comfort or
property of individuals or of the public.
   (b)   No person shall cause or allow offal, filth or noisome substances to
be collected or remain in any place to the damage or prejudice of others or of
the public.
   (c)   No person shall unlawfully obstruct or impede the passage of a
navigable river, harbor or collection of water, or corrupt or render
unwholesome or impure a watercourse, stream of water or unlawfully divert the
watercourse from its natural course or state to the injury or prejudice of
others.
   (d)   Persons who are engaged in agriculture- related activities, as
AGRICULTURE is defined in R.C. § 519.01, and who are conducting those
activities outside the municipality, in accordance with generally accepted
agricultural practices, and in such a manner so as not to have a substantial,
adverse effect on the public health, safety or welfare, are exempt from
divisions (a) and (b) above and from any ordinances, resolutions, rules, or
other enactments of the municipality that prohibit excessive noise.
(R.C. § 3767.13)
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 3767.99(C))
§ 521.10 CLEANING OF PREMISES.
   (a)   Prohibition and Definitions.
      (1)   Any person owning or having charge of land within the city limits
shall not permit the deposit, storage, or maintenance of any considered "junk"
on said property.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, JUNK shall be defined as items that
are of little or no economic value as they exist in their present condition,
other than value as salvage, as determined by the city, and that are not
confined within an industrial zoned area. Items may  include but are not
limited to vehicle parts, inoperable riding lawnmowers, other machinery,
discarded interior furniture and housewares, mattresses, appliances, or other
items determined by the city that may attract rodents or insects.
   (b)   Order to Clean Up Premises. Upon information of the deposit, storage,
or maintenance of junk on any property, the City Manager or his designee shall
cause certified written notice to be served upon the owner, occupant, or
responsible party having charge of the property, notifying him or her that junk
is being deposited, stored, or maintained on the property and that such junk
must be removed within 30 days after the service of the notice.
   (c)   Appeal of Order. Any person owning or having charge of land within the
city limits served with the notice provided for in division (b) above may file
an appeal of such notice with the Zoning Board of Appeals, acting in its
capacity to hear administrative appeals, within 10 days of service of the
notice. Said appeal shall be heard by the Zoning Board of Appeals at a
regularly scheduled meeting on a date to be determined by the city.
      (1)   The hearing shall be conducted as follows:
         A.   Such hearing shall be conducted by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
         B.   In an appeal pursuant to this chapter, the Zoning Board of
Appeals may vote to: sustain the finding that the property in question does
constitute a violation of division (a)(1) of this section and order that the
junk be removed; continue the matter for a period not to exceed 60 days for
further investigation; take such other action and render such other orders as
it deems appropriate within the authority conferred by this chapter; or
         C.   Reverse the finding that a violation of division (a)(1) of this
section    exists on the property and dismiss the case.
         D.   A copy of the decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
mailed, with certificate of mailing, to the last known address of the owner, or
person representing the owner, who demanded the hearing. It shall be the
responsibility of the owner, or person representing the owner, or person
representing the owner, to keep the secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals
appraised of his/her current mailing address. For the purpose of appeal
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2506, the final order shall be deemed to have been
entered on the date on which the copy of the decision was mailed.
         E.   A majority of the members of the Zoning Board of Appeals then
present must concur that a violation of division (a)(1) of this section exists
before enforcement is carried out pursuant to this chapter.
         F.   A copy of the decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
promptly served upon the owner or owners in the manner provided under division
C. above.
         G.   If the Zoning Board of Appeals denies the appeal, the owner or
occupant or other responsible party shall have 14 days to comply with the
order.
   (d)   Failure to Comply with Notice. Any person owning or having charge of
land within the city limits that fails to comply with the notice or subsequent
decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals, the City Manager or designee shall
cause the junk to be removed and may employ the necessary labor to perform the
task. All expenses incurred shall, when approved by the City Manager, be paid
out of the city funds not otherwise appropriated.
   (e)   The Clerk shall make a written return to the County Auditor of the
action taken under this section, with a statement of the charges for its
services, the amount paid for the performing of the labor, the fees of the
officers who made the service of the notice and return, and a proper
description of the premises. The amounts, when allowed, shall be entered upon
the tax duplicate, shall be a lien upon the lands from the date of the entry,
and shall be collected as other taxes and returned to the city with the General
Fund.
   (f)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any provision of this section
is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2-1969, passed 3-10-1969; Ord. 2018-67, passed 7-9-2018)
§ 521.11 WEED CUTTING REQUIRED.
   (a)   Definitions.
      (1)   LAKE. A body of standing water, including ponds and reservoirs that
may have natural or artificial water level control.
      (2)   MEAN WATER LEVEL. The normal summer (June 1 - September 15) water
level, measured in feet above sea level, of lakes as determined by an average
of water level readings available over time.
      (3)   NOXIOUS. Hurtful or offensive.
      (4)   NATURAL AREA. An area planted in approved native plants of Ohio.
      (5)   RIPARIAN BUFFER. The width of land measured horizontally from the
mean water level for lakes and from the top of bank or top of slope for
streams, to the edge of other land uses.
      (6)   RANK. Luxuriant in growth.
      (7)   STREAM. The full length and width, including the bed and banks, of
any watercourse, including rivers, creeks, brooks, and branches and
intermittent watercourses that have a defined channel and evidence of water and
sediment transport, even if such watercourses do not have surface water flow
throughout the year or throughout the channel.
      (8)   TOP OF BANK. The point along a stream bank where an abrupt change
in slope is evident, and where the stream is generally able to overflow the
banks and enter the adjacent floodplain during flows at or exceeding the
average annual high water stage.
      (9)   TOP OF SLOPE. A break in slope adjacent to steep-banked streams
that have little or no floodplain: or a break in slope where the side slopes
adjacent to an incised, or deeply cut channel meet floodplains that have been
abandoned or are undergoing abandonment.
      (10)   WEED. Undesirable, unattractive vegetation.
   (b)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   Any person owning or having charge of land within the city which
falls within the limits provided by division (b)(2) hereof shall keep the land
free and clear from all noxious weeds and rank vegetation and shall also be
required to control all weeds, grasses and vegetation, except trees, shrubs,
acceptable flowers and farm crops, by cutting or other effective legal means of
control, at least twice in every year, once between June 1 and July 1, and once
between August 1 and September 1, and at any other time as is necessary to keep
the growth of weeds, grasses and vegetation under eight inches high.
      (2)   The control of weeds and vegetation required by division (b) hereof
shall be accomplished on all lands within the city except: all land adjacent to
the top of slope or top of bank for all blue line streams; any designated
natural area on a non-single family residential lot greater than five acres; or
where the property has applied for and been granted a permit to maintain an
area of riparian buffer and/or natural area.
   (c)   Notice.
      (1)   Notice generally. Upon information that noxious or rank vegetation
as defined in division (b) hereof are growing on lands in the city and are
about to spread or mature seeds, the City Manager shall cause written notice to
be served upon the owner, lessee, agent or tenant having charge of the land,
notifying him or her that noxious weeds are growing on the land and that they
must be cut and destroyed within five days after the service of the notice. If
the owner or other person having charge of the land is a nonresident whose
address is known, the notice shall be sent to his or her address by certified
mail. If the address of the owner is unknown, it shall be sufficient to publish
the notice once in a newspaper of general circulation in the county.
      (2)   Fees for service and return. The Chief of Police, any police
officer or Clerk of Council may make service and return of the notice in
division (c) hereof and shall be allowed the same fee as that provided for
service and return of summons in civil cases before a magistrate.
      (3)   Procedure when owner fails to comply with notice. If the owner,
lessee, agent or tenant having charge of the lands fails to comply with the
notice, Council shall cause the noxious weeds to be cut and destroyed and may
employ the necessary labor to perform the task. All expenses incurred shall,
when approved by Council, be paid out of the city funds not otherwise
appropriated.
      (4)   Written return to County Auditor; amount of lien upon property. The
Clerk shall make a written return to the County Auditor of the action taken
under divisions (a) through (d) hereof, with a statement of the charges for its
services, the amount paid for the performing of the labor, the fees of the
officers who made the service of the notice and return, and a proper
description of the premises. The amounts, when allowed, shall be entered upon
the tax duplicate, shall be a lien upon the lands from the date of the entry,
and shall be collected as other taxes and returned to the city with the General
Fund.
   (d)   Violations. Whoever violates or fails to comply with any provision of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2008-73, passed 6-8-2008)
§ 521.12 SPREADING CONTAGION.
   (a)   No person, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the
person has a dangerous, contagious disease, shall knowingly fail to take
reasonable measures to prevent exposing self to other persons, except when
seeking medical aid.
   (b)   No person, having charge or care of a person whom the person having
charge or care knows or has reasonable cause to believe has a dangerous,
contagious disease, shall recklessly fail to take reasonable measures to
protect others from exposure to the contagion, and to inform health authorities
of the existence of the contagion.
   (c)   No person, having charge of a public conveyance or place of public
accommodation, amusement, resort or trade, and knowing or having reasonable
cause to believe that persons using the conveyance or place have been or are
being exposed to a dangerous, contagious disease, shall negligently fail to
take reasonable measures to protect the public from exposure to the contagion,
and to inform health authorities of the existence of the contagion.
(R.C. § 3701.81)
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(C))
§ 521.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.
CHAPTER 525: LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC OFFICE
Section
525.01   Definitions
525.02   Falsification
525.03   Impersonating an officer
525.04   Compounding a crime
525.05   Failure to report a crime or death
525.06   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer
525.07   Obstructing official business
525.08   Obstructing justice
525.09   Resisting arrest
525.10   Having an unlawful interest in a public contract
525.11   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation
525.12   Dereliction of duty
525.13   Interfering with civil rights
525.14   Display of law enforcement agency emblem
525.15   Disclosure of confidential information
525.16   Assaulting police dog, horse or assistance dog
525.17   False allegation of peace officer misconduct
525.18   False report of child abuse or neglect
525.19   Compliance with lawful order of police officer; fleeing
525.20   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police
Department
525.21   Using sham legal process
525.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Law enforcement officer defined, see §
501.01(g)
   Making false alarms, see §
509.07
   Misconduct at an emergency, see §
509.05
   Personating an officer to defraud, see §
545.16
§ 525.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (a)   CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE, CONTRIBUTION, POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE,
LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN FUND AND POLITICAL PARTY. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 3517.01.
   (b)   DETENTION. Arrest; confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an arrest;
confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons charged
with or convicted of crime in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or unruly child
in this state or another state or under the laws of the United States;
hospitalization, institutionalization or confinement in any public or private
facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of R.C. § 2945.37,
§ 2945.371, § 2945.38, § 2945.39, § 2945.40, § 2945.401 or § 2945.402;
confinement in any vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of
those natures; detention for extradition or deportation; except as provided in
this division, supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those
natures that is incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization or
confinement in the facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision
by an employee of the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction of a person
on any type of release from a state correctional institution; or confinement in
any vehicle, airplane or place while being returned from outside of this state
into this state by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered
into under R.C. § 311.29(E) or R.C. § 5149.03(B). For a person confined in a
county jail who participates in a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C.
§ 5147.30, DETENTION includes time spent at an assigned work site and going to
and from the work site.
   (c)   DETENTION FACILITY. Any public or private place used for the
confinement of a person charged with or convicted of any crime in this state or
another state or under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be
a delinquent child or an unruly child in this state or another state or under
the laws of the United States.
   (d)   OFFICIAL PROCEEDING. Any proceeding before a legislative, judicial,
administrative or other governmental agency or official authorized to take
evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary or other person taking testimony or a deposition
in connection with an official proceeding.
   (e)   PARTY OFFICIAL. Any person who holds an elective or appointive post in
a political party in the United States or this state, by virtue of which he or
she directs, conducts or participates in directing or conducting party affairs
at any level of responsibility.
   (f)   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Any elected or appointed officer, employee or agent
of the state or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a temporary or
permanent capacity, and includes but is not limited to legislators, judges and
law enforcement officers. The term does not include an employee, officer, or
governor-appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit
corporation formed under R.C. § 187.01.
   (g)   PUBLIC SERVANT.   
      (1)   Any of the following:
         A.   Any public official.
         B.   Any person performing ad hoc a governmental function, including,
but not limited to, a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor or consultant.
         C.   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not he
or she is elected or appointed to the office for which he or she is a
candidate. A person is a candidate for purposes of this division if he or she
has been nominated according to law for election or appointment to public
office, or if he or she has filed a petition or petitions as required by law to
have his or her name placed on the ballot in a primary, general or special
election, or if he or she campaigns as a write-in candidate in any primary,
general or special election.
      (2)   The term does not include an employee, officer, or governor-
appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit corporation formed
under R.C. § 187.01.
   (h)   VALUABLE THING or VALUABLE BENEFIT. Includes but is not limited to a
contribution. This inclusion does not indicate or imply that a contribution was
not included in those terms before September 17, 1986.
(R.C. § 2921.01)
§ 525.02 FALSIFICATION.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly swear
or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, when any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The statement is made in any official proceeding.
      (2)   The statement is made with purpose to incriminate another.
      (3)   The statement is made with purpose to mislead a public official in
performing his or her official function.
      (4)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the payment of
unemployment compensation; Ohio Works First; prevention, retention and
contingency benefits and services; disability financial assistance; retirement
benefits or health care coverage from a state retirement system; economic
development assistance as defined in R.C. § 9.66; or other benefits
administered by a governmental agency or paid out of a public treasury.
      (5)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the issuance by a
governmental agency of a license, permit, authorization, certificate,
registration, release or provider agreement.
      (6)   The statement is sworn or affirmed before a notary public or
another person empowered to administer oaths.
      (7)   The statement is in writing on or in connection with a report or
return that is required or authorized by law.
      (8)   The statement is in writing, and is made with purpose to induce
another to extend credit to or employ the offender, or to confer any degree,
diploma, certificate of attainment, award of excellence or honor on the
offender, or to extend to or bestow upon the offender any other valuable
benefit or distinction, when the person to whom the statement is directed
relies upon it to his or her detriment.
      (9)   The statement is made with purpose to commit or facilitate the
commission of a theft offense.
      (10)   The statement is knowingly made to a probate court in connection
with any action, proceeding or other matter within its jurisdiction, either
orally or in a written document, including but not limited to an application,
petition, complaint or other pleading, or an inventory, account or report.
      (11)   The statement is made on an account, form, record, stamp, label or
other writing that is required by law.
      (12)   The statement is made in connection with the purchase of a
firearm, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, and in conjunction with the furnishing
to the seller of the firearm of a fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit, a fictitious or altered identification card, or any
other document that contains false information about the purchaser’s identity.
      (13)   The statement is made in a document or instrument of writing that
purports to be a judgment, lien or claim of indebtedness and is filed or
recorded with the Secretary of State, a County Recorder, or the clerk of a
court of record.
      (14)   The statement is made in an application filed with a county
sheriff pursuant to R.C. § 2923.125 in order to obtain or renew a concealed
handgun license or is made in an affidavit submitted to a county sheriff to
obtain a concealed handgun license on a temporary emergency basis under R.C. §
2923.1213.
      (15)   The statement is required under R.C. § 5743.71 in connection with
the person’s purchase of cigarettes or tobacco products in a delivery sale.
   (b)   No person, in connection with the purchase of a firearm as defined in
R.C. § 2923.11, shall knowingly furnish to the seller of the firearm a
fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, a
fictitious or altered identification card, or any other document that contains
false information about the purchaser’s identity.
   (c)   No person, in an attempt to obtain a concealed handgun license under
R.C. § 2923.125, shall knowingly present to a sheriff a fictitious or altered
document that purports to be certification of the person’s competence in
handling a handgun as described in division (B)(3) of that section.
   (d)   It is no defense to a charge under division (a)(6) of this section
that the oath or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner.
   (e)   If contradictory statements relating to the same fact are made by the
offender within the period of the statute of limitations for falsification, it
is not necessary for the prosecution to prove which statement was false, but
only that one or the other was false.
   (f)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)
(5), (a)(6), (a)(7), (a)(8), (a)(10), (a)(11), (a)(13) or (a)(15) of this
section is guilty of falsification. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(9) of this section is guilty of
falsification in a theft offense. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification in a theft offense is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the value of the property or services stolen is $1,000 or more,
falsification in a theft offense is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (a)(12) or (b) of this section is guilty
of falsification to purchase a firearm, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (a)(14) or (c) of this section is guilty
of falsification to obtain a concealed handgun license, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section in removal
proceedings under R.C. § 319.26, 321.37, 507.13 or 733.78 is guilty of
falsification regarding a removal proceeding, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.13)
   (g)   (1)   No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101 shall produce any
document or present to a peace officer an electronic wireless communications
device that is displaying any text or images with the purpose to mislead a
peace officer upon the request of a peace officer for proof of financial
responsibility made in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101(D)(2).
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (g) is guilty of falsification, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4509.102)
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for violations of this section, see R.C. § 2921.13(G)
§ 525.03 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. An employee of the United States
who serves in a position the duties of which are primarily the investigation,
apprehension or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses
under the criminal laws of the United States.
      (2)   IMPERSONATE. To act the part of, assume the identity of, wear the
uniform or any part of the uniform of, or display the identification of a
particular person or of a member of a class of persons with purpose to make
another person believe that the actor is that particular person or is a member
of that class of persons.
      (3)   INVESTIGATOR OF THE BUREAU OF CRIMINAL IDENTIFICATION AND
INVESTIGATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.11.
      (4)   PEACE OFFICER. A Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff, Marshal, Deputy Marshal,
member of the organized police department of a municipal corporation or
township constable, who is employed by a political subdivision of this state; a
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
R.C. § 3735.31(D); a member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y); a state university law enforcement officer
appointed under R.C. § 3345.04; a veterans’ home police officer appointed under
R.C. § 5907.02; a special police officer employed by a port authority under
R.C. § 4582.04 or § 4582.28; an officer, agent or employee of the state or any
of its agencies, instrumentalities or political subdivisions, upon whom, by
statute, a duty to conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is
imposed and the authority to arrest violators is conferred, within limits of
that statutory duty and authority; or a State Highway Patrol trooper whose
primary duties are to preserve the peace, to protect life and property and to
enforce the laws, ordinances or rules of the state or any of its political
subdivisions.
      (5)   PRIVATE POLICE OFFICER. Any security guard, special police officer,
private detective or other person who is privately employed in a police
capacity.
   (b)   No person shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation or
federal law enforcement officer.
   (c)   No person, by impersonating a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation or
federal law enforcement officer, shall arrest or detain any person, search any
person or search the property of any person.
   (d)   No person, with purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of an
offense, shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer, federal law
enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the municipality or the
state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation.
   (e)   No person shall commit a felony while impersonating a peace officer,
private police officer, federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or
employee of the municipality or of the state or investigator of the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation.
   (f)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (b) of this
section that the impersonation of the peace officer, private police officer,
federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the
municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation was for a lawful purpose.
   (g)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (c) or (d) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the purpose of a
violation of division (d) of this section is to commit or facilitate the
commission of a felony, a violation of division (d) is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. Whoever violates division (e) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.51)
§ 525.04 COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly demand, accept or agree to accept anything
of value in consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon a pending
criminal prosecution.
   (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section when both
of the following apply:
      (1)   The pending prosecution involved is for a violation of R.C. §
2913.02, § 2913.11, § 2913.21(B)(2) or § 2913.47, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, of which the actor under this section was the victim.
      (2)   The thing of value demanded, accepted or agreed to be accepted, in
consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon the prosecution, did not
exceed an amount that the actor reasonably believed due him or her as
restitution for the loss caused him or her by the offense.
   (c)   When a prosecuting witness abandons or agrees to abandon a prosecution
under division (b) of this section, the abandonment or agreement in no way
binds the state to abandoning the prosecution.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of compounding a crime, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.21)
§ 525.05 FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME OR DEATH.
   (a)   (1)   Except as provided in division (a)(2) of this section, no
person, knowing that a felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly
fail to report the information to law enforcement authorities.
      (2)   No person, knowing that a violation of R.C. § 2913.04(B) has been
or is being committed or that the person has received information derived from
such a violation, shall knowingly fail to report the violation to law
enforcement authorities.
   (b)   Except for conditions that are within the scope of division (e) of
this section, no person giving aid to a sick or injured person shall
negligently fail to report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab
wound treated or observed by the person, or any serious physical harm to
persons that the person knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from
an offense of violence.
   (c)   No person who discovers the body or acquires the first knowledge of
the death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician
or advanced practice registered nurse whom the person knows to be treating the
deceased for a condition from which death at such time would not be unexpected,
or to a law enforcement officer, an ambulance service, an emergency squad, or
the coroner in a political subdivision in which the body is discovered, the
death is believed to have occurred, or knowledge concerning the death is
obtained. For purposes of this division, “advanced practice registered nurse”
does not include a certified registered nurse anesthetist.
   (d)   No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a
report required by division (c) of this section was made, or to any law
enforcement officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to
investigate the circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within his or
her knowledge that may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.
   (e)   (1)   As used in this section, BURN INJURY means any of the following:
         A.   Second or third degree burns;
         B.   Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due
to the inhalation of super-heated air; or
         C.   Any burn injury or wound that may result in death.
      (2)   No physician, nurse, physician assistant, or limited practitioner
who, outside a hospital, sanitarium or other medical facility, attends or
treats a person who has sustained a burn injury inflicted by an explosion or
other incendiary device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a
violent, malicious or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury
immediately to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the
jurisdiction in which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local
law enforcement authorities.
      (3)   No manager, superintendent or other person in charge of a hospital,
sanitarium or other medical facility in which a person is attended or treated
for any burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary device, or
that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent, malicious or
criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately to the local
arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in which the person
is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement authorities.
      (4)   No person who is required to report any burn injury under division
(e)(2) or (e)(3) of this section shall fail to file, within three working days
after attending or treating the victim, a written report of the burn injury
with the office of the State Fire Marshal. The report shall be made on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
      (5)   Anyone participating in the making of reports under division (e) of
this section or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from
the reports is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might
be incurred or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding R.C. §
4731.22, the physician-patient relationship or advanced practice registered
nurse-patient relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding a
person’s burn injury or the cause of the burn injury in any judicial proceeding
resulting from a report submitted under division (e) of this section.
   (f)   (1)   Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern
or resident, nurse, psychologist, social worker, independent social worker,
social work assistant, licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed
professional counselor, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage
and family therapist who knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a
patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence, as defined in R.C.
§ 3113.31, shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for it in the
patient’s or client’s records.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4731.22, the physician-patient privilege or
advanced practice registered nurse-patient privilege shall not be a ground for
excluding any information regarding the report containing the knowledge or
belief noted under division (f)(1) of this section, and the information may be
admitted as evidence in accordance with the Rules of Evidence.
   (g)   Division (a) or (d) of this section does not require disclosure of
information, when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between
attorney and client; physician and patient; advanced practice registered nurse
and patient; licensed psychologist or licensed school psychologist and client;
licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed professional counselor,
independent social worker, social worker, independent marriage and family
therapist, or marriage and family therapist and client; member of the clergy,
rabbi, minister, or priest and any person communicating information
confidentially to the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister, or priest for a
religious counseling purpose of a professional character; husband and wife; or
a communications assistant and those who are a party to a telecommunications
relay service call.
      (2)   The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor’s
immediate family.
      (3)   Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news
source, privileged under R.C. § 2739.04 or § 2739.12.
      (4)   Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a
member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential
communication made to him or her in his or her capacity as such by a person
seeking his or her aid or counsel.
      (5)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of his or her duties in connection with a bona fide program
of treatment or services for drug dependent persons or persons in danger of
drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a hospital,
clinic, person, agency or community addiction services provider whose alcohol
and drug addiction services are certified pursuant to R.C. § 5119.36.
      (6)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of his or her duties in connection with a bona fide program
for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are violations of
R.C. § 2907.02 or § 2907.05, or to victims of felonious sexual penetration in
violation of former R.C. § 2907.12. As used in this division, COUNSELING
SERVICES include services provided in an informal setting by a person who, by
education or experience, is competent to provide those services.
   (h)   No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to
any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.
   (i)   Whoever violates division (a) or (b) of this section is guilty of
failure to report a crime. Violation of division (a)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Violation of division (a)(2) or (b) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (j)   Whoever violates division (c) or (d) of this section is guilty of
failure to report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (k)   (1)   Whoever negligently violates division (e) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever knowingly violates division (e) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (l)   As used in this section, NURSE includes an advanced practice
registered nurse, registered nurse, and licensed practical nurse.
(R.C. § 2921.22)
§ 525.06 FAILURE TO AID A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (a)   No person shall negligently fail or refuse to aid a law enforcement
officer, when called upon for assistance in preventing or halting the
commission of an offense, or in apprehending or detaining an offender, when the
aid can be given without a substantial risk of physical harm to the person
giving it.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to aid a law
enforcement officer, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2921.23)
§ 525.07 OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so and with purpose to prevent,
obstruct or delay the performance by a public official of any authorized act
within the public official’s official capacity, shall do any act that hampers
or impedes a public official in the performance of the public official’s lawful
duties.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing official
business. Except as otherwise provided in this division, obstructing official
business is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If a violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, obstructing official business is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.31)
§ 525.08 OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension,
prosecution, conviction or punishment of another for crime, or to assist
another to benefit from the commission of a crime, and no person, with purpose
to hinder the discovery, apprehension, prosecution, adjudication as a
delinquent child, or disposition of a child for an act that if committed by an
adult would be a crime or to assist a child to benefit from the commission of
an act that if committed by an adult would be a crime, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Harbor or conceal the other person or child;
      (2)   Provide the other person or child with money, transportation, a
weapon, a disguise or other means of avoiding discovery or apprehension;
      (3)   Warn the other person or child of impending discovery or
apprehension;
      (4)   Destroy or conceal physical evidence of the crime or act, or induce
any person to withhold testimony or information or to elude legal process
summoning him or her to testify or supply evidence;
      (5)   Communicate false information to any person; or
      (6)   Prevent or obstruct any person, by means of force, intimidation or
deception, from performing any act to aid in the discovery, apprehension or
prosecution of the other person or child.
   (b)   A person may be prosecuted for, and may be convicted of or adjudicated
a delinquent child for committing, a violation of division (a) of this section
regardless of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for,
is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to or is adjudicated a
delinquent child for committing the crime or act the person or child aided
committed. The crime or act the person or child aided committed shall be used
under division (c) of this section in determining the penalty for violation of
division (a) of this section, regardless of whether the person or child aided
ultimately is apprehended for, is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty
to or is adjudicated a delinquent child for committing the crime or act the
person or child aided committed.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing justice.
      (1)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a misdemeanor or if
the act committed by the child aided would be a misdemeanor if committed by an
adult, obstructing justice is a misdemeanor of the same degree as the crime
committed by the person aided or a misdemeanor of the same degree that the act
committed by the child aided would be if committed by an adult.
      (2)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a felony or if the
act committed by the child aided would be a felony if committed by an adult, or
if the crime or act committed by the person or child aided is an act of
terrorism, obstructing justice is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (d)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   ACT OF TERRORISM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.21.
      (2)   ADULT and CHILD. Have the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      (3)   DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
(R.C. § 2921.32)
§ 525.09 RESISTING ARREST.
   (a)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of himself, herself or another.
   (b)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (c)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance
or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer
by means of a deadly weapon; or
      (2)   The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference,
brandishes a deadly weapon.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A
violation of division (a) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A violation of division (c) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (e)   As used in this section, DEADLY WEAPON has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2923.11.
(R.C. § 2921.33)
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful taking of deadly weapon from law enforcement officer, felony, see
R.C. § 2911.01
§ 525.10 HAVING AN UNLAWFUL INTEREST IN A PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   (a)   No public official shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Authorize or employ the authority of the public official’s office
to secure authorization of any public contract in which the public official, a
member of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s
business associates has an interest.
      (2)   Authorize or employ the authority or influence of the public
official’s office to secure the investment of public funds in any share, bond,
mortgage or other security with respect to which the public official, a member
of the public official’s family or any of the public official’s business
associates either has an interest, is an underwriter or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees.
      (3)   During the public official’s term of office or within one year
thereafter, occupy any position of profit in the prosecution of a public
contract authorized by the public official or by a legislative body, commission
or board of which the public official was a member at the time of
authorization, unless the contract was let by competitive bidding to the lowest
and best bidder.
      (4)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
entered into by or for the use of the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality with which the public official is connected.
      (5)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
that is not let by competitive bidding when required by law, and that involves
more than $150.
   (b)   In the absence of bribery or a purpose to defraud, a public official,
member of a public official’s family or any of a public official’s business
associates shall not be considered as having an interest in a public contract
or the investment of public funds, if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The interest of that person is limited to owning or controlling
shares of the corporation, or being a creditor of the corporation or other
organization, that is the contractor on the public contract involved, or that
is the issuer of the security in which public funds are invested.
      (2)   The shares owned or controlled by that person do not exceed 5% of
the outstanding shares of the corporation, and the amount due that person as
creditor does not exceed 5% of the total indebtedness of the corporation or
other organization.
      (3)   That person, prior to the time the public contract is entered into,
files with the political subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality
involved, an affidavit giving that person’s exact status in connection with the
corporation or other organization.
   (c)   This section does not apply to a public contract in which a public
official, member of a public official’s family, or one of a public official’s
business associates has an interest, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The subject of the public contract is necessary supplies or
services for the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved.
      (2)   The supplies or services are unobtainable elsewhere for the same or
lower cost, or are being furnished to the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality as part of a continuing course of dealing established
prior to the public official’s becoming associated with the political
subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality involved.
      (3)   The treatment accorded the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality is either preferential to or the same as that
accorded other customers or clients in similar transactions.
      (4)   The entire transaction is conducted at arm’s length, with full
knowledge by the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved, of the interest of the public official, member of the
public official’s family, or business associate, and the public official takes
no part in the deliberations or decision of the political subdivision or
governmental agency or instrumentality with respect to the public contract.
   (d)   Division (a)(4) of this section does not prohibit participation by a
public employee in any housing program funded by public moneys if the public
employee otherwise qualifies for the program and does not use the authority or
influence of the public employee’s office or employment to secure benefits from
the program and if the moneys are to be used on the primary residence of the
public employee. This participation does not constitute an unlawful interest in
a public contract in violation of this section.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having an unlawful interest
in a public contract. Violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division
(a)(3), (a)(4) or (a)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (f)   It is not a violation of this section for a prosecuting attorney to
appoint assistants and employees in accordance with R.C. §§ 309.06 and
2921.421, or for a chief legal officer of a municipality or an official
designated as prosecutor in a municipality to appoint assistants and employees
in accordance with R.C. §§ 733.621 and 2921.421, or for a township law director
appointed under R.C. § 504.15 to appoint assistants and employees in accordance
with R.C. §§ 504.151 and 2921.421.
   (g)   Any public contract in which a public official, a member of the public
official’s family or any of the public official’s business associates has an
interest in violation of this section is void and unenforceable. Any contract
securing the investment of public funds in which a public official, a member of
the public official’s family or any of the public official’s business
associates has an interest, is an underwriter or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees and that was entered into in violation of this
section is void and unenforceable.
   (h)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 733.621.
      (2)   PUBLIC CONTRACT. Any of the following:
         A.   The purchase or acquisition, or a contract for the purchase or
acquisition, of property or services by or for the use of the state or any of
its political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either,
including the employment of an individual by the state, any of its political
subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either.
         B.   A contract for the design, construction, alteration, repair or
maintenance of any public property.
(R.C. § 2921.42)
§ 525.11 SOLICITING OR RECEIVING IMPROPER COMPENSATION.
   (a)   No public servant shall knowingly solicit or accept and no person
shall knowingly promise or give to a public servant either of the following:
      (1)   Any compensation, other than as allowed by R.C. § 102.03(G), (H),
(I) or other provisions of law, to perform the public servant’s official
duties, to perform any other act or service in the public servant’s public
capacity, for the general performance of the duties of the public servant’s
public office or public employment, or as a supplement to the public servant’s
public compensation.
      (2)   Additional or greater fees or costs than are allowed by law to
perform the public servant’s official duties.
   (b)   No public servant for the public servant’s own personal or business
use and no person for the person’s own personal or business use or for the
personal or business use of a public servant or party official, shall solicit
or accept anything of value in consideration of either of the following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion or other
material aspects of employment.
   (c)   No person for the benefit of a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity shall coerce any contribution in consideration of either of the
following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion or other
material aspects of employment.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of soliciting improper
compensation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (e)   A public servant who is convicted of a violation of this section is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment or position of trust in
this state for a period of seven years from the date of conviction.
   (f)   Divisions (a), (b) and (c) of this section do not prohibit any person
from making voluntary contributions to a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity or prohibit a political party, campaign committee, legislative campaign
fund, political action committee or political contributing entity from
accepting voluntary contributions.
(R.C. § 2921.43)
§ 525.12 DERELICTION OF DUTY.
   (a)   No law enforcement officer shall negligently do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to serve a lawful warrant without delay.
      (2)   Fail to prevent or halt the commission of an offense or to
apprehend an offender, when it is in the law enforcement officer’s power to do
so alone or with available assistance.
   (b)   No law enforcement, ministerial or judicial officer shall negligently
fail to perform a lawful duty in a criminal case or proceeding.
   (c)   No officer, having charge of a detention facility, shall negligently
do any of the following:
      (1)   Allow the detention facility to become littered or unsanitary.
      (2)   Fail to provide persons confined in the detention facility with
adequate food, clothing, bedding, shelter and medical attention.
      (3)   Fail to control an unruly prisoner, or to prevent intimidation of
or physical harm to a prisoner by another.
      (4)   Allow a prisoner to escape.
      (5)   Fail to observe any lawful and reasonable regulation for the
management of the detention facility.
   (d)   No public official shall recklessly create a deficiency, incur a
liability or expend a greater sum than is appropriated by the Council for the
use in any one year of the department, agency, or institution with which the
public official is connected.
   (e)   No public servant shall recklessly fail to perform a duty expressly
imposed by law with respect to the public servant’s office, or recklessly do
any act expressly forbidden by law with respect to the public servant’s office.
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of dereliction of duty, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (g)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a public servant who is a county
treasurer; county auditor; township fiscal officer; city auditor; city
treasurer; village fiscal officer; village clerk-treasurer; village clerk; in
the case of a municipal corporation having a charter that designates an officer
who, by virtue of the charter, has duties and functions similar to those of the
city or village officers referred to in this section, the officer so designated
by the charter; school district treasurer; fiscal officer of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; treasurer of a science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics school established under R.C. Chapter 3326; or
fiscal officer of a college-preparatory boarding school established under R.C.
Chapter 3328 and is convicted of or pleads guilty to dereliction of duty is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for four years following the date of conviction or of entry of
the plea, and is not entitled to hold any public office until any repayment or
restitution required by the court is satisfied.
   (h)   As used in this section, PUBLIC SERVANT includes the following:
      (1)   An officer or employee of a contractor as defined in R.C. § 9.08;
      (2)   A fiscal officer employed by the operator of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314 or by the operator of a college-preparatory
boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328.
(R.C. § 2921.44)
§ 525.13 INTERFERING WITH CIVIL RIGHTS.
   (a)   No public servant, under color of the public servant's office,
employment, or authority, shall knowingly deprive, or conspire or attempt to
deprive any person of a constitutional or statutory right.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interfering with civil
rights, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.45)
Statutory reference:
   Restraining or confining pregnant children or pregnant women, see R.C. §
2152.75(B) and R.C. § 2901.10
§ 525.14 DISPLAY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY EMBLEM.
   (a)   No person who is not entitled to do so shall knowingly display on a
motor vehicle the emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law
enforcement officers.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of the unlawful display of the
emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law enforcement
officers, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2913.441)
§ 525.15 DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (a)   No present or former public employee or official shall disclose or
use, without appropriate authorization, any information acquired by him or her
in the course of his or her official duties which has been clearly designated
to him or her as confidential when such confidential designation is warranted
because of the status of the proceedings or the circumstances under which the
information was received and preserving its confidentiality is necessary to the
proper conduct of government business.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disclosing confidential
information, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Ord. 88-23, passed 3-14-1988)
§ 525.16 ASSAULTING POLICE DOG, HORSE OR ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
a police dog or horse in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in
the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical harm
is caused or attempted.
      (2)   The police dog or horse is not assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical
harm is caused or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog
or horse is a police dog or horse.
   (b)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment or strike a police dog or horse;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at a police dog or horse;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct a police dog or horse, or interfere with
or obstruct a law enforcement officer who is being assisted by a police dog or
horse, in a manner that does any of the following:
         A.   Inhibits or restricts the law enforcement officer’s control of
the police dog or horse;
         B.   Deprives the law enforcement officer of control of the police dog
or horse;
         C.   Releases the police dog or horse from its area of control;
         D.   Enters the area of control of the police dog or horse without the
consent of the law enforcement officer, including placing food or any other
object or substance into that area; or
         E.   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the police dog or horse to
assist a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to a police dog or horse; or
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger a police dog or horse that at the time of the conduct, the
police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in the performance
of the officer’s duties or that the person knows is a police dog or horse.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
an assistance dog in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The dog, at the time the physical harm is caused or attempted, is
assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment.
      (2)   The dog, at the time the physical harm is caused or attempted, is
not assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment, but the offender has actual knowledge that
the dog is an assistance dog.
   (d)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment or strike an assistance dog;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at an assistance dog;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct an assistance dog, or interfere with or
obstruct a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a person with a
mobility impairment who is being assisted or served by an assistance dog, in a
manner that does any of the following:
         A.   Inhibits or restricts the assisted or served person’s control of
the dog;
         B.   Deprives the assisted or served person of control of the dog;
         C.   Releases the dog from its area of control;
         D.   Enters the area of control of the dog without the consent of the
assisted or served person, including placing food or any other object or
substance into that area; or
         E.   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the dog to assist the
assisted or served person;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to an assistance dog; or
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger an assistance dog that at the time of the conduct is
assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment or that the person knows is an assistance
dog.
   (e)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
assaulting a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, assaulting a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. If the violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse
other than death or serious physical harm, assaulting a police dog or horse is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death, assaulting a police
dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
harassing a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided this division,
harassing a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse but does not
result in its death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing a police dog
or horse is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in
serous physical harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death,
harassing a police dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of
assaulting an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog other than death or
serious physical harm, assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the violation results in serious physical harm to the
assistance dog or results in its death, assaulting an assistance dog is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of
harassing an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
harassing an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog but does not result in
the death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing an assistance dog is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the assistance dog or results in its death, harassing an assistance dog
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   In addition to any other sanctions or penalty imposed for the
offense under this section, R.C. Chapter 2929 or any other provision of the
Revised Code or this code, whoever violates division (a), (b), (c) or (d) of
this section is responsible for the payment of all of the following:
         A.   Any veterinary bill or bill for medication incurred as a result
of the violation by the police department regarding a violation of division (a)
or (b) of this section or by the person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired
or the person with a mobility impairment assisted or served by the assistance
dog regarding a    violation of division (c) or (d) of this section;
         B.   The cost of any damaged equipment that results from the
violation;
         C.   If the violation did not result in the death of the police dog or
horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation and if, as a
result of that dog or horse being the subject of the violation, the dog or
horse needs further training or retraining to be able to continue in the
capacity of a police dog or horse or an assistance dog, the cost of any further
training or retraining of that dog or horse by a law enforcement officer or by
the person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or the person with a
mobility impairment assisted or served by the assistance dog;
         D.   If the violation resulted in the death of the assistance dog that
was the subject of the violation or resulted in serious physical harm to the
police dog or horse or the assistance dog or horse that was the subject of the
violation to the extent that the dog or horse needs to be replaced on either a
temporary or a permanent basis, the cost of replacing that dog or horse and of
any further training of a new police dog or horse or a new assistance dog by a
law enforcement officer or by the person who is blind, deaf, or hearing
impaired or the person with a mobility impairment assisted or served by the
assistance dog, which replacement or training is required because of the death
of or the serious physical harm to the dog or horse that was the subject of the
violation.
   (f)   This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian whose conduct
is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (g)   This section only applies to an offender who knows or should know at
the time of the violation that the police dog or horse or assistance dog that
is the subject of a violation under this section is a police dog or horse or an
assistance dog.
   (h)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   ASSISTANCE DOG, BLIND AND PERSON WITH A MOBILITY IMPAIRMENT. Have
the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      (2)   PHYSICAL HARM. Any injury, illness or other psychological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
      (3)   POLICE DOG OR HORSE. A dog or horse that has been trained and may
be used to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their official
duties.
      (4)   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Any of the following:
         A.   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death.
         B.   Any physical harm that causes permanent maiming or that involves
some temporary, substantial maiming.
         C.   Any physical harm that causes acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering.
(R.C. § 2921.321)
§ 525.17 FALSE ALLEGATION OF PEACE OFFICER MISCONDUCT.
   (a)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly file a complaint against a peace officer
that alleges that the peace officer engaged in misconduct in the performance of
the officer’s duties if the person knows that the allegation is false.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of making a
false allegation of peace officer misconduct, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2921.15)
§ 525.18 FALSE REPORT OF CHILD ABUSE OR NEGLECT.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly make or cause another person to make a false
report under R.C. § 2151.421(B) alleging that any person has committed an act
or omission that resulted in a child being an abused child as defined in R.C. §
2151.031 or a neglected child as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or causing a false
report of child abuse or child neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.14)
§ 525.19 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWFUL ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER; FLEEING.
   (a)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control or regulate
traffic.
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring the person’s motor vehicle to a stop.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)   A violation of division (a) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (c)(4) and (c)(5) of this section,
a violation of division (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (c)(5) of this section, a violation
of division (b) of this section is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier of fact finds by proof
beyond a reasonable doubt that in committing the offense, the offender was
fleeing immediately after the commission of a felony.
      (5)   A.   A violation of division (b) of this section is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier
of fact finds any of the following by proof beyond a reasonable doubt:
            1.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a
proximate cause of serious physical harm to persons or property.
            2.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property.
         B.   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating division
(b) of this section and division (c)(5)A. of this section applies, the
sentencing court, in determining the seriousness of an offender’s conduct for
purposes of sentencing the offender for a violation of division (b) of this
section, shall consider, along with the factors set forth in R.C. §§ 2929.12
and 2929.13 that are required to be considered, all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the pursuit;
            2.   The distance of the pursuit;
            3.   The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
            4.   Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or stop
signs during the pursuit;
            5.   The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
            6.   Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
            7.   Whether the offender committed a moving violation during the
pursuit;
            8.   The number of moving violations the offender committed during
the pursuit; and
            9.   Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender’s
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense.
   (d)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of division
(a) of this section or a misdemeanor violation of division (b) of this section,
the court shall impose a class five suspension from the range specified in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender previously has been found guilty of an offense
under this section or under R.C. § 2921.331 or any other substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, in addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class one suspension as described in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(1). The court may grant limited driving privileges to the offender
on a suspension imposed for a misdemeanor violation of this section as set
forth in R.C. § 4510.021. No judge shall suspend any portion of the suspension
under a class one suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege
required by this division.
   (e)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   MOVING VIOLATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.70.
      (2)   POLICE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F))
§ 525.20 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED OR FORFEITED PROPERTY HELD BY POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
   (a)   Safekeeping of property in custody.
      (1)   A.   Any property that has been lost, abandoned, stolen, seized
pursuant to a search warrant, or otherwise lawfully seized or forfeited and
that is in the custody of the Police Department shall be kept safely by the
Police Department, pending the time it no longer is needed as evidence or for
another lawful purpose, and shall be disposed of pursuant to this section or
R.C. §§ 2981.12 and 2981.13.
         B.   This section does not apply to the custody and disposal of any of
the following:
            1.   Vehicles subject to forfeiture under R.C. Title 45, except as
provided in division (b)(1)F. of this section;
            2.   Abandoned junk motor vehicles or other property of negligible
value;
            3.   Property held by a department of rehabilitation and correction
institution that is unclaimed, that does not have an identified owner, that the
owner agrees to dispose of or that is identified by the Department as having
little value;
            4.   Animals taken, and devices used in unlawfully taking animals,
under R.C. § 1531.20;
            5.   Controlled substances sold by a peace officer in the
performance of the officer’s official duties under R.C. § 3719.141;
            6.   Property recovered by a township law enforcement agency under
R.C. §§ 505.105 to 505.109; or
            7.   Property held and disposed of under an ordinance of the
municipality or under R.C. §§ 737.29 to 737.33, except that if the municipality
has received notice of a citizens’ reward program as provided in division (b)
(5) of this section and disposes of property under an ordinance shall pay 25%
of any moneys acquired from any sale or auction to the citizens’ reward
program.
      (2)   A.   The Police Department shall adopt and comply with a written
internal control policy that does all of the following:
            1.   Provides for keeping detailed records as to the amount of
property acquired by the Police Department and the date property was acquired;
            2.   Provides for keeping detailed records of the disposition of
the property, which shall include but not be limited to both of the following:
               a.   The manner in which it was disposed, the date of
disposition, detailed financial records concerning any property sold and the
name of any person who received the property. The record shall not identify or
enable identification of the individual officer who seized any item of
property; and
               b.   An itemized list of the specific expenditures made with
amounts that are gained from the sale of the property and that are retained by
the agency, including the specific amount expended on each expenditure, except
that the policy shall not provide for or permit the identification of any
specific expenditure that is made in an ongoing investigation.
            3.   Complies with R.C. § 2981.13 if the Police Department has a
law enforcement trust fund or similar fund created under that section.
         B.   The records kept under the internal control policy shall be open
to public inspection during the Police Department’s regular business hours. The
policy adopted under this section is a public record open for inspection under
R.C. § 149.43.
      (3)   The Police Department, with custody of property to be disposed of
under this section or R.C. § 2981.12 or § 2981.13, shall make a reasonable
effort to locate persons entitled to possession of the property, to notify them
of when and where it may be claimed, and to return the property to them at the
earliest possible time. In the absence of evidence identifying persons entitled
to possession, it is sufficient notice to advertise in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county and to briefly describe the nature of the property in
custody and inviting persons to view and establish their right to it.
      (4)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         A.   CITIZENS’ REWARD PROGRAM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 9.92.
         B.   LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Includes correctional institutions.
         C.   TOWNSHIP LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. An organized police department
of a township, a township police district, a joint police district, or the
office of a township constable.
(R.C. § 2981.11)
   (b)   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property.
      (1)   Unclaimed or forfeited property in the custody of the Police
Department, other than property described in division (a)(1)B. of this section,
shall be disposed of by order of any court of record that has territorial
jurisdiction over the municipality, as follows:
         A.   Drugs shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 3719.11 or placed
in the custody of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for
disposal or use for medical or scientific purposes under applicable federal
law.
         B.   Firearms and dangerous ordnance suitable for police work may be
given to a law enforcement agency for that purpose. Firearms suitable for
sporting use or as museum pieces or collectors’ items may be sold at public
auction pursuant to division (b)(2) of this section. The Police Department may
sell other firearms and dangerous ordnance to a federally licensed firearms
dealer in a manner that the court considers proper. The Police Department shall
destroy any firearms or dangerous ordnance not given to a law enforcement
agency or sold or shall send them to the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation for destruction by the Bureau. The Police Department shall
destroy other firearms and dangerous ordnance or shall send them to the Bureau
of Criminal Identification and Investigation for destruction by the Bureau.
         C.   Obscene materials shall be destroyed.
         D.   Beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol seized from a person who
does not hold a permit issued under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 or otherwise
forfeited to the state for an offense under R.C. § 4301.45 or § 4301.53 shall
be sold by the Division of Liquor Control if the Division determines that it is
fit for sale or shall be placed in the custody of the Investigations Unit in
the Ohio Department of Public Safety and be used for training relating to law
enforcement activities. The Ohio Department of Public Safety, with the
assistance of the Division of Liquor Control, shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 to provide for the distribution to state or local law
enforcement agencies upon their request. If any tax imposed under R.C. Title 43
has not been paid in relation to the beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol, any
moneys acquired from the sale shall first be used to pay the tax. All other
money collected under this division (b)(1)D. shall be paid into the State
Treasury. Any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol that the Division
determines to be unfit for sale shall be destroyed.
         E.   Money received by an inmate of a correctional institution from an
unauthorized source or in an unauthorized manner shall be returned to the
sender, if known, or deposited in the inmates’ industrial and entertainment
fund of the institution if the sender is not known.
         F.   1.   Any mobile instrumentality forfeited under R.C. Chapter 2981
may be given to the law enforcement agency that initially seized the mobile
instrumentality for use in performing its duties, if the agency wants the
mobile instrumentality. The agency shall take the mobile instrumentality
subject to any security interest or lien on the mobile instrumentality.
            2.   Vehicles and vehicle parts forfeited under R.C. §§ 4549.61 to
4549.63 may be given to a law enforcement agency for use in performing its
duties. Those parts may be incorporated into any other official vehicle. Parts
that do not bear vehicle identification numbers or derivatives of them may be
sold or disposed of as provided by rules of the Director of Public Safety.
Parts from which a vehicle identification number or derivative of it has been
removed, defaced, covered, altered or destroyed and that are not suitable for
police work or incorporation into an official vehicle shall be destroyed and
sold as junk or scrap.
         G.   Computers, computer networks, computer systems and computer
software suitable for police work may be given to a law enforcement agency for
that purpose or disposed of under division (b)(2) of this section.
         H.   Money seized in connection with a violation of R.C. § 2905.32,
2907.21, or 2907.22 shall be deposited in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund
created by R.C. § 5101.87.
      (2)   Unclaimed or forfeited property that is not described in division
(b)(1) of this section or division (a)(1)B. of this section, with court
approval, may be used by the law enforcement agency in possession of it. If it
is not used by the agency, it may be sold without appraisal at a public auction
to the highest bidder for cash or disposed of in another manner that the court
considers proper.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (b)(1) and (b)(5) of this section
and after compliance with division (b)(4) of this section when applicable, any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of pursuant to this section
shall be placed in the General Revenue Fund of the state, or the General Fund
of the municipality.
      (4)   If the property was in the possession of the Police Department in
relation to a delinquent child proceeding in a juvenile court, 10% of any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of under this section shall
be applied to one or more community addiction services providers, as defined in
R.C. § 5119.01. A juvenile court shall not specify a services provider, except
as provided in this division, unless the services provider is in the same
county as the court or in a contiguous county. If no services provider is
located in any of those counties, the juvenile court may specify a services
provider anywhere in Ohio. The remaining 90% of the proceeds or cash shall be
applied as provided in division (b)(3) of this section.
      (5)   A.   If the Board of County Commissioners recognizes a citizens’
reward program under R.C. § 9.92, the Board shall notify the Police Department
of the recognition by filing a copy of its resolution conferring that
recognition with the Police Department. When the Board recognizes a citizens’
reward program and the county includes a part, but not all, of the territory of
the municipality, the Board shall so notify the Police Department of the
recognition of the citizens’ reward program only if the county contains the
highest percentage of the municipality’s population.
         B.   Upon being so notified, the Police Department shall pay 25% of
any forfeited proceeds or cash derived from each sale of property disposed of
pursuant to this section to the citizens’ reward program for use exclusively to
pay rewards. No part of the funds may be used to pay expenses associated with
the program. If a citizens’ reward program that operates in more than one
county or in another state in addition to this state receives funds under this
section, the funds shall be used to pay rewards only for tips and information
to law enforcement agencies concerning offenses committed in the county from
which the funds were received.
      (6)   Any property forfeited under R.C. Chapter 2981 not be used to pay
any fine imposed upon a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to an
underlying criminal offense or a different offense arising out of the same
facts and circumstances.
      (7)   Any moneys acquired from the sale of personal effects, tools, or
other property seized because the personal effects, tools, or other property
were used in the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2905.32, 2907.21, or
2907.22 or derived from the proceeds of the commission of a violation of R.C. §
2905.32, 2907.21, or 2907.22 and disposed of pursuant to this division (b)
shall be placed in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund created by R.C. §
5101.87.
(R.C. § 2981.12)
   (c)   Disposition of contraband, proceeds, or instrumentalities. Except as
otherwise provided in R.C. § 2981.13, property ordered forfeited as contraband,
proceeds, or an instrumentality pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2981 shall be disposed
of, used or sold pursuant to division (b) of this section or R.C. § 2981.12. If
the property is to be sold under division (b) of this section or R.C. §
2981.12, the prosecutor shall cause notice of the proposed sale to be given in
accordance with law.
(R.C. § 2981.13(A))
Statutory reference:
   Forfeiture of property generally, see R.C. Chapter 2981
§ 525.21 USING SHAM LEGAL PROCESS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   LAWFULLY ISSUED. Adopted, issued or rendered in accordance with the
United States Constitution, the constitution of a state, and the applicable
statutes, rules, regulations and ordinances of the United States, a state and
the political subdivisions of a state.
      (2)   POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS. Municipal corporations, townships,
counties, school districts and all other bodies corporate and politic that are
organized under state law and are responsible for governmental activities only
in geographical areas smaller than that of a state.
      (3)   SHAM LEGAL PROCESS. An instrument that meets all of the following
conditions:
         A.   It is not lawfully issued.
         B.   It purports to do any of the following:
            1.   To be a summons, subpoena, judgment or order of a court, a law
enforcement officer, or a legislative, executive or administrative body.
            2.   To assert jurisdiction over or determine the legal or
equitable status, rights, duties, powers or privileges of any person or
property.
            3.   To require or authorize the search, seizure, indictment,
arrest, trial or sentencing of any person or property.
         C.   It is designed to make another person believe that it is lawfully
issued.
      (4)   STATE. A state of the United States, including without limitation
the state legislature, the highest court of the state that has statewide
jurisdiction, the offices of all elected state officers, and all departments,
boards, offices, commissions, agencies, institutions and other
instrumentalities of the state. STATE does not include the political
subdivisions of the state.
   (b)   No person shall, knowing the sham legal process to be a sham legal
process, do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly issue, display, deliver, distribute or otherwise use sham
legal process.
      (2)   Knowingly use sham legal process to arrest, detain, search or seize
any person or the property of another person.
      (3)   Knowingly commit or facilitate the commission of an offense using
sham legal process.
      (4)   Knowingly commit a felony by using sham legal process.
   (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (b)(1) or (b)
(2) of this section that the use of sham legal process was for a lawful
purpose.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using sham legal process. A
violation of division (b)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. A violation of division (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the purpose of a violation of
division (b)(3) of this section is to commit or facilitate the commission of a
felony, a violation of division (b)(3) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (b)(4) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.52(A) - (D))
§ 525.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.
CHAPTER 529: LIQUOR CONTROL
Section
529.01   Definitions
529.02   Sales to underage persons; prohibitions and misrepresentations
529.021   Purchase, consumption or possession by minor; misrepresentation
(Recodified)
529.03   Sales to intoxicated persons
529.04   Consumption in motor vehicle
529.05   Permit required
529.06   Sales of low-alcohol beverages to underage persons; prohibitions and
misrepresentations
529.07   Open container prohibited
529.08   Hours of sale or consumption
529.09   Alcohol vaporizing devices prohibited
529.10   Posting age and firearm warning signs
529.11   Conveying intoxicating liquor or cash onto grounds of detention
facilities or other specified governmental facilities
529.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Disorderly conduct; intoxication, see §
509.03
   Using weapons while intoxicated, see §
549.03
Statutory reference:
   Local option, see R.C. §§ 4301.32 et seq., 4303.29
   Prohibiting sale of intoxicating liquor on Sunday, see R.C. § 4301.22(D)
§ 529.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, whether rectified or diluted with water or
not, whatever its origin may be, and includes synthetic ethyl alcohol. The term
does not include denatured alcohol and wood alcohol.
   (b)   AT RETAIL. For use or consumption by the purchaser and not for resale.
   (c)   BEER.  
      (1)   Includes all beverages brewed or fermented wholly or in part from
malt products and containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume.
      (2)   Beer, regardless of the percent of alcohol by volume, is not
intoxicating liquor for purposes of this code, the Ohio Revised Code, or any
rules adopted under it.
   (d)   CIDER. All liquids that are fit to use for beverage purposes that
contain 0.5% of alcohol by volume, but not more than 6% of alcohol by weight
that are made through the normal alcoholic fermentation of the juice of sound,
ripe apples, including without limitation flavored, sparkling or carbonated
cider and cider made from pure condensed apple must.
   (e)   CLUB. A corporation or association of individuals organized in good
faith for social, recreational, benevolent, charitable, fraternal, political,
patriotic or athletic purposes, which is the owner, lessor or occupant of a
permanent building or part of a permanent building operated solely for those
purposes, membership in which entails the prepayment of regular dues, and
includes the place so operated.
   (f)   COMMUNITY FACILITY. Either of the following:
      (1)   Any convention, sports or entertainment facility or complex, or any
combination of these, that is used by or accessible to the general public and
that is owned or operated in whole or in part by the state, a state agency or a
political subdivision of the state or that is leased from, or located on
property owned by or leased from, the state, a state agency, a political
subdivision of the state or a convention facilities authority created pursuant
to R.C. § 351.02; or
      (2)   An area designated as a community entertainment district pursuant
to R.C. § 4301.80.
   (g)   CONTROLLED ACCESS ALCOHOL AND BEVERAGE CABINET. A closed container,
either refrigerated, in whole or in part, or nonrefrigerated, access to the
interior of which is restricted by means of a device that requires the use of a
key, magnetic card or similar device and from which beer, intoxicating liquor,
other beverages or food may be sold.
   (h)   HOTEL. The same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01, subject to the
exceptions mentioned in R.C. § 3731.03.
   (i)   INTOXICATING LIQUOR and LIQUOR. All liquids and compounds, other than
beer, containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume which are fit to use for
beverage purposes, from whatever source and by whatever process produced, by
whatever name called, and whether they are medicated, proprietary or patented.
INTOXICATING LIQUOR and LIQUOR include cider and alcohol, and all solids and
confections which contain 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume.
   (j)   LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGE. Any brewed or fermented malt product or any
product made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits or other agricultural
products that contains either no alcohol or less than 0.5% of alcohol by
volume. The beverages described in this definition do not include a soft drink
such as root beer, birch beer or ginger beer.
   (k)   MANUFACTURE. All processes by which beer or intoxicating liquor is
produced, whether by distillation, rectifying, fortifying, blending,
fermentation, brewing, or in any other manner.
   (l)   MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the business of manufacturing beer
or intoxicating liquor.
   (m)   MIXED BEVERAGES. Includes bottled and prepared cordials, cocktails,
highballs, and solids and confections that are obtained by mixing any type of
whiskey, neutral spirits, brandy, gin or other distilled spirits with, or over,
carbonated or plain water, pure juices from flowers and plants, and other
flavoring materials. The completed product shall contain not less than 0.5% of
alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume. The phrase
includes the contents of a pod.
   (n)   NIGHTCLUB. A place habitually operated for profit, where food is
served for consumption on the premises, and one or more forms of amusement are
provided or permitted for a consideration that may be in the form of a cover
charge or may be included in the price of the food and beverages, or both,
purchased by patrons.
   (o)   PERSON. Includes firms and corporations.
   (p)   PHARMACY. An establishment as defined in R.C. § 4729.01, that is under
the management or control of a licensed pharmacist in accordance with R.C. §
4729.27.
   (q)   POD. Means a sealed capsule made from plastic, glass, aluminum, or a
combination thereof to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The capsule contains intoxicating liquor of more than 21% of
alcohol by volume.
      (2)   The capsule also contains a concentrated flavoring mixture.
      (3)   The contents of the capsule are not readily accessible or intended
for consumption unless certain manufacturer's processing instructions are
followed.
      (4)   The instructions include releasing the contents of the capsule
through a machine specifically designed to process the contents.
      (5)   After being properly processed according to the manufacturer's
instructions, the final product produced from the capsule contains not less
than 0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume.
   (r)   RESTAURANT. A place located in a permanent building provided with
space and accommodations wherein, in consideration of the payment of money, hot
meals are habitually prepared, sold and served at noon and evening, as the
principal business of the place. The term does not include pharmacies,
confectionery stores, lunch stands, nightclubs and filling stations.
   (s)   SALE and SELL. The exchange, barter, gift, offer for sale, sale,
distribution and delivery of any kind, and the transfer of title or possession
of beer and intoxicating liquor either by constructive or actual delivery by
any means or devices whatever, including the sale of beer or intoxicating
liquor by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet pursuant to
R.C. § 4301.21. These terms do not include the mere solicitation of orders for
beer or intoxicating liquor from the holders of permits issued by the Division
of Liquor Control authorizing the sale of the beer or intoxicating liquor, but
no solicitor shall solicit any orders until the solicitor has been registered
with the Division pursuant to R.C. § 4303.25.
   (t)   SALES AREA OR TERRITORY. An exclusive geographic area or territory
that is assigned to a particular A or B permit holder and that either has one
or more political subdivisions as its boundaries or consists of an area of land
with readily identifiable geographic boundaries. SALES AREA OR TERRITORY does
not include, however, any particular retail location in an exclusive geographic
area or territory that had been assigned to another A or B permit holder before
April 9, 2001.
   (u)   SEALED CONTAINER. Any container having a capacity of not more than 128
fluid ounces, the opening of which is closed to prevent the entrance of air.
   (v)   SPIRITUOUS LIQUOR. All intoxicating liquors containing more than 21%
of alcohol by volume. The phrase does not include the contents of a pod.
   (w)   VEHICLE. All means of transportation by land, by water or by air, and
everything made use of in any way for the transportation.
   (x)   WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTOR and DISTRIBUTOR. A person engaged in the
business of selling to retail dealers for purposes of resale.
   (y)   WINE. All liquids fit to use for beverage purposes containing not less
than 0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume, that
is made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products. The term includes cider, except as used in R.C. §§ 4301.13, 4301.421,
4301.422, 4301.432, and 4301.44, and, for purposes of determining the rate of
the tax that applies, R.C. § 4301.43(B), the term does not include cider.
(R.C. §§ 4301.01, 4301.244)
§ 529.02 SALES TO UNDERAGE PERSONS; PROHIBITIONS AND MISREPRESENTATIONS.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor to an underage person, shall
buy beer or intoxicating liquor for an underage person, or shall furnish it to
an underage person unless given by a physician in the regular line of the
physician’s practice or given for established religious purposes or unless the
underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse who is not an underage
person, or legal guardian. In proceedings before the Liquor Control Commission,
no permit holder, or no employee or agent of a permit holder, charged with a
violation of this division shall be charged, for the same offense, with a
violation of R.C. § 4301.22(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (b)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private place
shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place while
possessing or consuming beer or intoxicating liquor, unless the intoxicating
liquor or beer is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that
person’s parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian and
the parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present
at the time of the person’s possession or consumption of the beer or
intoxicating liquor. An owner of a public or private place is not liable for
acts or omissions in violation of this division that are committed by a lessee
of that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee’s acts
or omissions.
   (c)   No person shall engage or use accommodations at a hotel, inn, cabin,
campground or restaurant when the person knows or has reason to know either of
the following:
      (1)   That beer or intoxicating liquor will be consumed by an underage
person on the premises of the accommodations that the person engages or uses,
unless the person engaging or using the accommodations is the spouse of the
underage person and who is not an underage person, or is the parent or legal
guardian of all of the underage persons, who consume beer or intoxicating
liquor on the premises and that person is on the premises at all times when
beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by an underage person.
      (2)   That a drug of abuse will be consumed on the premises of the
accommodations by any person, except a person who obtained the drug of abuse
pursuant to a prescription issued by a licensed health professionals authorized
to prescribe drugs and has the drug of abuse in the original container in which
it was dispensed to the person.
   (d)   (1)   No person is required to permit the engagement of accommodations
at any hotel, inn, cabin or campground by an underage person or for an underage
person, if the person engaging the accommodations knows or has reason to know
that the underage person is intoxicated, or that the underage person possesses
any beer or intoxicating liquor and is not supervised by a parent, spouse who
is not an underage person, or legal guardian who is or will be present at all
times when the beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by the underage
person.
      (2)   No underage person shall knowingly engage or attempt to engage
accommodations at any hotel, inn, cabin or campground by presenting
identification that falsely indicates that the underage person is 21 years of
age or older for the purpose of violating this section.
   (e)   (1)   No underage person shall knowingly order, pay for, share the
cost of, attempt to purchase, possess or consume any beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public or private place. No underage person shall knowingly be
under the influence of any beer or intoxicating liquor in any public place. The
prohibitions set forth in this division against an underage person knowingly
possessing, consuming or being under the influence of any beer or intoxicating
liquor shall not apply if the underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse
who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or the beer or intoxicating
liquor is given by a physician in the regular line of the physician’s practice
or given for established religious purposes.
      (2)   A.   If a person is charged with violating division (e)(1) of this
section in a complaint filed under R.C. § 2151.27, the court may order the
child into a diversion program specified by the court and hold the complaint in
abeyance pending successful completion of the diversion program. A child is
ineligible to enter into a diversion program under this division if the child
previously has been diverted pursuant to this division. If the child completes
the diversion program to the satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss
the complaint and order the child’s record in the case sealed under R.C. §§
2151.356 through 2151.358. If the child fails to satisfactorily complete the
diversion program, the court shall proceed with the complaint.
         B.   If a person is charged in a criminal complaint with violating
division (e)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2935.36 shall apply to the offense,
except that a person is ineligible for diversion under that section if the
person previously has been diverted pursuant to divisions (e)(2)A. or (e)(2)B.
of this section. If the person completes the diversion program to the
satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss the complaint and order the
record in the case sealed under R.C. § 2953.33. If the person fails to
satisfactorily complete the diversion program, the court shall proceed with the
complaint.
   (f)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
a minor shall knowingly permit the minor to violate this section or R.C. §
4301.63, § 4301.633 or § 4301.634, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (g)   The operator of any hotel, inn, cabin or campground shall make the
provisions of this section available in writing to any person engaging or using
accommodations at the hotel, inn, cabin or campground.
   (h)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
      (2)   HOTEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01.
      (3)   LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS and
PRESCRIPTION. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
      (4)   MINOR. A person under the age of 18 years.
      (5)   UNDERAGE PERSON. A person under the age of 21 years.
(R.C. § 4301.69)
   (i)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall purchase beer or intoxicating liquor.
(R.C. § 4301.63)
   (j)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the name, age or
other identification of any person under 21 years of age, for the purpose of
obtaining, or with the intent to obtain, beer or intoxicating liquor for a
person under 21 years of age, by purchase or as a gift.
(R.C. § 4301.633)
   (k)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall knowingly show or give false
information concerning his or her name, age or other identification for the
purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining beer or intoxicating liquor in any
place in this municipality where beer or intoxicating liquor is sold under a
permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control, or sold by the Division of
Liquor Control.
(R.C. § 4301.634)
   (l)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor, shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and in
addition to the fine, may be imprisoned for a definite term of not more than
six months.
(R.C. § 4301.99(I))
   (m)   Whoever violates division (b), (c), (d), (f), (g) or (j) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
   (n)   Whoever violates division (e)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If an offender who violates division (e)(1) of
this section was under the age of 18 years at the time of the offense and the
offense occurred while the offender was the operator of or a passenger in a
motor vehicle, the court, in addition to any other penalties it imposes upon
the offender, shall suspend the offender’s temporary instruction permit or
probationary driver’s license for a period of not less than six months and not
more than one year. If the offender is 15 years and six months of age or older
and has not been issued a temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s
license, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or
permit for a period of six months. If the offender has not attained the age of
15 years and six months, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a
temporary instruction permit until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(D))
   (o)   Whoever violates division (i) of this section shall be fined not less
than $25 nor more than $100. The court imposing a fine for a violation of this
section may order that the fine be paid by the performance of public work at a
reasonable hour rate established by the court. The court shall designate the
time within which the public work shall be completed.
(R.C. § 4301.99(E))
   (p)   (1)   Whoever violates division (k) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If, in committing a first violation of
division (k), the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $250 and not
more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more
than six months.
      (2)   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the offender
presented to the permit holder or his or her employee or agent a false,
fictitious or altered identification card, a false or fictitious driver’s
license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s license issued by any
state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and
may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. The
court also may impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operation privilege from
the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (3)   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more
than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than
six months. Except as provided in this division, the court also may impose a
class six suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(6), and the court may order that the suspension or denial remain in
effect until the offender attains the age of 21 years. The court, in lieu of
suspending the offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s
license, or driver’s license, instead may order the offender to perform a
determinate number of hours of community service, with the court determining
the actual number of hours and the nature of the community service the offender
shall perform.
(R.C. § 4301.99(F))
§ 529.021 PURCHASE, CONSUMPTION OR POSSESSION BY MINOR; MISREPRESENTATION
(RECODIFIED).
Editor’s note:
   Sections 529.02 and 529.021 were combined as part of the 2009 updating and
revision of these codified ordinances. For provisions regarding Purchase,
consumption or possession by minor; misrepresentation, please see §
529.02.
§ 529.03 SALES TO INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   (a)   No permit holder and no agent or employee of a permit holder shall
sell or furnish beer or intoxicating liquor to an intoxicated person.
(R.C. § 4301.22(B))
   (b)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(D), (H))
§ 529.04 CONSUMPTION IN MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   No person shall consume any beer or intoxicating liquor in a motor
vehicle. This section does not apply to persons described in R.C. § 4301.62(D)
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4301.64)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If an offender who violates this section was under the age of 18 years
at the time of the offense, the court, in addition to any other penalties it
imposes upon the offender, may suspend the offender’s temporary instruction
permit, probationary driver’s license or driver’s license for a period of not
less than six months and not more than one year. In lieu of suspending the
offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or
driver’s license, the court instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court. If the
offender is 15 years and six months of age or older and has not been issued a
temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s license, the offender
shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or permit for a period of six
months. If the offender has not attained the age of 15 years and six months,
the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a temporary instruction permit
until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
§ 529.05 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   No person personally or by the person’s clerk, agent or
employee, shall manufacture, manufacture for sale, offer, keep or possess for
sale, furnish or sell, or solicit the purchase or sale of any beer or
intoxicating liquor in this state, or transport, import or cause to be
transported or imported any beer, intoxicating liquor or alcohol in or into
this municipality for delivery, use or sale, unless the person has fully
complied with R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 or is the holder of a permit issued
by the Division of Liquor Control and in force at the time.
      (2)   No manufacturer, supplier, wholesale distributor, broker or
retailer of beer or intoxicating liquor, or other person shall employ, retain
or otherwise utilize any person in this state to act as an employee, agent,
solicitor or salesperson, or act in any other representative capacity to sell,
solicit, take orders or receive offers to purchase or expressions of interest
to purchase beer or intoxicating liquor from any person, at any location other
than a liquor permit premises, except as specifically authorized by R.C.
Chapter 4301 or Chapter 4303 or rules adopted thereunder. No function, event or
party shall take place at any location other than a liquor permit premises
where any person acts in any manner to sell, solicit, take orders or receive
offers to purchase or expressions of intent to purchase beer or intoxicating
liquor to or from any person, except as specifically authorized by R.C. Chapter
4301 or Chapter 4303 or rules adopted thereunder.
(R.C. § 4303.25)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
§ 529.06 SALES OF LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGES TO UNDERAGE PERSONS; PROHIBITIONS AND
MISREPRESENTATIONS.
   (a)   As used in this section, UNDERAGE PERSON means a person under 18 years
of age.
   (b)   No underage person shall purchase any low- alcohol beverage.
   (c)   No underage person shall order, pay for, share the cost of or attempt
to purchase any low- alcohol beverage.
   (d)   No person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the
name, age or other identification of any underage person for the purpose of
obtaining or with the intent to obtain any low-alcohol beverage for an underage
person, by purchase or as a gift.
   (e)   No underage person shall knowingly show or give false information
concerning his or her name, age or other identification for the purpose of
purchasing or otherwise obtaining any low-alcohol beverage in any place in this
municipality.
   (f)   No person shall sell or furnish any low- alcohol beverage to, or buy
any low-alcohol beverage for, an underage person, unless given by a physician
in the regular line of his or her practice or given for established religious
purposes, or unless the underage person is accompanied by a parent, spouse who
is not an underage person, or legal guardian.
   (g)   (1)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private
place shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place
while possessing or consuming any low-alcohol beverage, unless the low- alcohol
beverage is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that person’s
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, and the
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present when
the person possesses or consumes the low-alcohol beverage.
      (2)   An owner of a public or private place is not liable for acts or
omissions in violation of division (g)(1) that are committed by a lessee of
that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee’s acts or
omissions.
   (h)   No permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control shall be suspended,
revoked or cancelled because of a violation of either division (f) or (g).
   (i)   No underage person shall knowingly possess or consume any low-alcohol
beverage in any public or private place, unless he or she is accompanied by a
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or unless the
low-alcohol beverage is given by a physician in the regular line of his or her
practice or given for established religious purposes.
   (j)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
an underage person shall knowingly permit the underage person to violate this
section.
(R.C. § 4301.631)
   (k)   No low-alcohol beverage shall be sold to any person under 18 years of
age.
(R.C. § 4301.22(A)(2))
   (l)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section shall be fined not less
than $25 nor more than $100. The court imposing a fine for a violation of
division (b) of this section may order that the fine be paid by the performance
of public work at a reasonable hour rate established by the court. The court
shall designate the time within which the public work shall be completed.
(R.C. § 4301.99(E))
   (m)   Whoever violates divisions (c) through (k) hereof is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
§ 529.07 OPEN CONTAINER PROHIBITED.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A vehicle registered under R.C. § 4503.24.
      (2)   STREET, HIGHWAY AND MOTOR VEHICLE. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 4511.01.
   (b)   No person shall have in the person’s possession an opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(1)E. of this section, in a state
liquor store;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (c) or (j) of this section, on the
premises of the holder of any permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control;
      (3)   In any other public place;
      (4)   Except as provided in division (d) or (e) of this section, while
operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on any street, highway
or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking; or
      (5)   Except as provided in division (d) or (e) of this section, while
being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on any street, highway or other
public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking.
   (c)   (1)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened container
of any of the following:
         A.   Beer or intoxicating liquor that has been lawfully purchased for
consumption on the premises where bought from the holder of an A-1-A, A-2, A-
2f, A-3a, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-3a, D-4, D-4a, D-5, D-5a, D-5b, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-
5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-7, D-8, D-9, E, F,
F-2, F-5, F-7 or F-8 permit;
         B.   Beer, wine, or mixed beverages served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-3 permit, wine served as a tasting sample by an
A-2, A-2f, S-1, or S-2 permit holder for consumption on the premises of a
farmers market for which an F-10 permit has been issued, or wine served for
consumption on the premises by the holder of an F-4 or F-6 permit;
         C.   Beer or intoxicating liquor consumed on the premises of a
convention facility as provided in R.C. § 4303.201;
         D.   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed during tastings and
samplings approved by rule of the Liquor Control Commission;
         E.   Spiritous liquor to be consumed for purposes of a tasting sample,
as defined in R.C. § 4301.171;
         F.   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed in an outdoor area
described in R.C. § 4303.188(B)(1).
      (2)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F liquor permit
premises an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor that was not
purchased from the holder of the F permit if the premises for which the F
permit is issued is a music festival and the holder of the F permit grants
permission for that possession on the premises during the period for which the
F permit is issued. As used in this division (c)(2), MUSIC FESTIVAL means a
series of outdoor live musical performances extending for a period of at least
three consecutive days and located on an area of land of at least 40 acres.
      (3)   A.   A person may have in the person’s possession on a D-2 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of wine that was not purchased
from the holder of the D-2 permit if the premises for which the D-2 permit is
issued is an outdoor performing arts center, the person is attending an
orchestral performance, and the holder of the D-2 permit grants permission for
the possession and consumption of wine in certain predesignated areas of the
premises during the period for which the D-2 permit is issued.
         B.   As used in division (c)(3)A. of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
            1.   ORCHESTRAL PERFORMANCE. A concert comprised of a group of not
fewer than 40 musicians playing various musical instruments.
            2.   OUTDOOR PERFORMING ARTS CENTER. An outdoor performing arts
center that is located on not less than 150 acres of land and that is open for
performances from the first day of April to the last day of October of each
year.
      (4)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened or unopened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location at which the
person is attending an orchestral performance as defined in division (c)(3)B.
of this section if the person with supervision and control over the performance
grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating
liquor in certain predesignated areas of that outdoor location.
      (5)   A.   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F-9 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
that was not purchased from the holder of the F-9 permit if the person is
attending either of the following:
            1.   An orchestral performance and the F-9 permit holder grants
permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor in
certain predesignated areas of the premises during the period for which the F-
9 permit is issued;
            2.   An outdoor performing arts event or orchestral performance
that is free of charge and the F-9 permit holder annually hosts not less than
25 other events or performances that are free of charge on the permit premises.
         B.   As used in division (c)(5) of this section, “orchestral
performance” has the same meaning as in division (c)(3)B. of this section.
      (6)   A.   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of an outdoor motorsports facility an opened or unopened container of beer or
intoxicating liquor that was not purchased from the owner of the facility if
both of the following apply:
            1.   The person is attending a racing event at the facility; and
            2.   The owner of the facility grants permission for the possession
and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor on the property of the facility.
         B.   As used in division (c)(6)A. of this section:
            1.   “Outdoor motorsports facility.” An outdoor racetrack to which
all of the following apply:
               a.   It is 2.4 miles or more in length.
               b.   It is located on 200 acres or more of land.
               c.   The primary business of the owner of the facility is the
hosting and promoting of racing events.
               d.   The holder of a D-1, D-2, or D-3 permit is located on the
property of the facility.
            2.   RACING EVENT. A motor vehicle racing event sanctioned by one
or more motor racing sanctioning organizations.
      (7)   A.   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location within an
outdoor refreshment area created under R.C. § 4301.82 if the opened container
of beer or intoxicating liquor was purchased from an A-1, A-1-A, A-1c, A-2, A-
2f, D class, or F class permit holder to which both of the following apply:
            1.   The permit holder’s premises is located within the outdoor
refreshment area.
            2.   The permit held by the permit holder has an outdoor
refreshment area designation.
         B.   Division (c)(7) of this section does not authorize a person to do
either of the following:
            1.   Enter the premises of an establishment within an outdoor
refreshment area while possessing an opened container of beer or intoxicating
liquor acquired elsewhere;
            2.   Possess an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
while being in or on a motor vehicle within an outdoor refreshment area, unless
the possession is otherwise authorized under division (d) or (e) of this
section.
         C.   As used in division (c)(7) of this section, “D class permit
holder” does not include a D-6 or D-8 permit holder.
      (8)   A.   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of a market, within a defined F-8 permit premises, an opened container of beer
or intoxicating liquor that was purchased from a D permit premises that is
located immediately adjacent to the market if both of the following apply:
            1.   The market grants permission for the possession and
consumption of beer and intoxicating liquor within the defined F-8 permit
premises;
            2.   The market is hosting an event pursuant to an F-8 permit and
the market has notified the division of liquor control about the event in
accordance with R.C. § 4303.208(A)(3).
         B.   As used in division (c)(8) of this section, “market” means a
market, for which an F-8 permit is held, that has been in operation since 1860.
   (d)   This section does not apply to a person who pays all or a portion of
the fee imposed for use of a chauffeured limousine pursuant to a prearranged
contract or the guest of the person, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person or guest is a passenger in the limousine.
      (2)   The person or guest is located in the limousine, but is not
occupying a seat in the front compartment of the limousine where the operator
of the limousine is located.
      (3)   The limousine is located on any street, highway or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (e)   An opened bottle of wine that was purchased from the holder of a
permit that authorizes the sale of wine for consumption on the premises where
sold is not an opened container for the purposes of this section if both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The opened bottle of wine is securely resealed by the permit holder
or an employee of the permit holder before the bottle is removed from the
premises. The bottle shall be secured in such a manner that it is visibly
apparent if the bottle has been subsequently opened or tampered with.
      (2)   The opened bottle of wine that is resealed in accordance with
division (e)(1) of this section is stored in the trunk of a motor vehicle or,
if the motor vehicle does not have a trunk, behind the last upright seat or in
an area not normally occupied by the driver or passengers and not easily
accessible by the driver.
(R.C. § 4301.62)
   (f)   (1)   Except if an ordinance or resolution is enacted or adopted under
division (f)(2) of this section, this section does not apply to a person who,
pursuant to a prearranged contract, is a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle when all of the following apply:
         A.   The person is not occupying a seat in the front of the commercial
quadricycle where the operator is steering or braking.
         B.   The commercial quadricycle is being operated on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking.
         C.   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
an opened container of beer or wine.
         D.   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
not more than either 36 ounces of beer or 18 ounces of wine.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority may enact an ordinance or adopt a
resolution, as applicable, that prohibits a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle from possessing an opened container of beer or wine.
      (3)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL QUADRICYCLE means a vehicle
that has fully-operative pedals for propulsion entirely by human power and that
meets all of the following requirements:
         A.   It has four wheels and is operated in a manner similar to a
bicycle.
         B.   It has at least five seats for passengers.
         C.   It is designed to be powered by the pedaling of the operator and
the passengers.
         D.   It is used for commercial purposes.
         E.   It is operated by the vehicle owner or an employee of the owner.
   (g)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor on the premises
of a market if the beer or intoxicating liquor has been purchased from a D
liquor permit holder that is located in the market.
      (2)   As used in division (g) of this section, “market” means an
establishment that:
         A.   Leases space in the market to individual vendors, not less than
50% of which are retail food establishments or food service operations licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3717;
         B.   Has an indoor sales floor area of not less than 22,000 square
feet;
         C.   Hosts a farmer’s market on each Saturday from April through
December.
(R.C. § 4301.62)
   (h)   (1)   As used in this section, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE has the same meaning
as in R.C. § 4303.185.
      (2)   An alcoholic beverage in a closed container being transported under
R.C. § 4303.185 to its final destination is not an opened container for the
purposes of this section if the closed container is securely sealed in such a
manner that it is visibly apparent if the closed container has been
subsequently opened or tampered with after sealing.
   (i)   This section does not apply to a person who has in the person's
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor in a public-use
airport, as described in R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a)(iii), when both of the
following apply:
      (1)   Consumption of the opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
occurs in the area of the airport terminal that is restricted to persons taking
flights to and from the airport; and
      (2)   The consumption is authorized under R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a).
(R.C. § 4301.62)
   (j)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of homemade beer or wine that is served in
accordance with R.C. § 4301.201(E).
(R.C. § 4301.62)
   (k)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
§ 529.08 HOURS OF SALE OR CONSUMPTION.
   (a)   This section shall apply to the retail sale of beer, wine, mixed
beverages or spirituous liquor.
   (b)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor shall be sold or
delivered by an A-1, A-1C, A-2, B-1, B-2, B-4, B-5, C-1, C-2, C-2X, D-1, D-2,
D-2X, D-3 when issued without a D-3A, D-3X, D-4, D-5H, D-5K, D-8, F, F-1, F-2,
F-3, F-4, F-5, F-6, F-7, F-8, F-9, G or I permit holder:
      (1)   From Monday to Saturday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:30
a.m.
      (2)   On Sunday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and Sunday midnight,
unless statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (3)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (c)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages or spirituous liquor shall be sold or
delivered by an A-1A, D-3 when issued with a D-3A, D-4A, D-5, D-5A, D-5B, D-5C,
D-5D, D-5E, D-5F, D-5G, D-5I, D-5J, D-5L, D-5M, D-5N, D-5O, or D-7 permit
holder:
      (1)   From Monday to Saturday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 5:30
a.m.
      (2)   On Sunday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and Sunday midnight,
unless statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (3)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (d)   Permit holders authorized to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages or
spirituous liquor at retail who are not specifically identified in divisions
(b) or (c) above shall be subject to the provisions of division (b), unless
statutorily authorized otherwise.
   (e)   The hours on Sunday during which sales, delivery or consumption of
alcoholic beverages may take place are established by statute, but in no event
shall they begin prior to 5:30 a.m.
(O.A.C. 4301:1-1-49)
   (f)   No association, corporation, local unit of an association or
corporation or D permit holder who holds an F-2 permit shall sell beer or
intoxicating liquor beyond the hours of sale allowed by the permit. This
division imposes strict liability on the holder of the permit and on any
officer, agent or employee of the permit holder.
(R.C. § 4303.202(D)(2))
   (g)   No F-8 permit holder shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor beyond the
hours of sale allowed by the permit. This division imposes strict liability on
the holder of an F-8 permit and on any officer, agent or employee of that
permit holder.
(R.C. § 4303.208(C))
   (h)   Whoever violates divisions (f) or (g) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4303.99(D))
§ 529.09 ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (a)   As used in this section, ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICE means a machine or
other device that mixes beer or intoxicating liquor with pure oxygen or any
other gas to produce a vaporized product for the purpose of consumption by
inhalation.
   (b)   No person shall sell or offer for sale an alcohol vaporizing device.
   (c)   No person shall purchase or use an alcohol vaporizing device.
(R.C. § 4301.65)
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
misdemeanor of the third degree. For a second or subsequent violation occurring
within a period of five consecutive years after the first violation, a person
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(J))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
§ 529.10 POSTING AGE AND FIREARM WARNING SIGNS.
   (a)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4301.691, every place in
this municipality where beer, intoxicating liquor or any low-alcohol beverage
is sold for beverage purposes shall display at all times, in a prominent place
on the premises thereof, a printed card, which shall be furnished by the
Division of Liquor Control and which shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER AGE
   If you are under the age of 21
      Under the statutes of the State of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the
cost of or attempt to purchase, or possess or consume beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public place, or furnish false information as to name, age or
other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $1,000, or
imprisonment up to 6 months, or both.
   If you are under the age of 18
      Under the statutes of the State of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the
cost of or attempt to purchase, or possess or consume, any type of beer or wine
that contains either no alcohol or less than one-half of one percent of alcohol
by volume in any public place, or furnish false information as to the name,
age, or other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $250 or to
imprisonment up to 30 days, or both.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Department or the Liquor Control Commission for failing
to display this card. No permit issued by the Department shall be suspended,
revoked or canceled because of the failure of the permit holder to display this
card.
   (b)   (1)   Every place in this municipality for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 shall be issued a printed card by the Division
of Liquor Control that shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING
   If you are carrying a firearm
      Under the statutes of Ohio, if you possess a firearm in any room in which
liquor is being dispensed in premises for which a D permit has been issued
under Chapter 4303 of the Revised Code, you may be guilty of a felony and may
be subjected to a prison term of up to one year.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Division of Liquor Control or the Liquor Control
Commission for failing to display this card. No permit issued by the Department
shall be suspended, revoked or canceled because of the failure of the permit
holder to display this card.
(R.C. § 4301.637)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.70, 4301.99(A))
§ 529.11 CONVEYING INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR CASH ONTO GROUNDS OF DETENTION
FACILITIES OR OTHER SPECIFIED GOVERNMENTAL FACILITIES.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly convey, or attempt to convey, onto the
grounds of a detention facility or of an institution, office building, or other
place that is under the control of the Department of Mental Health and
Addiction Services, the Department of Developmental Disabilities, the
Department of Youth Services, or the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction, any of the following items:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance, as defined in R.C. §
2923.11, or any part of or ammunition for use in the deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance.
      (2)   Any drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      (3)   Any intoxicating liquor, as defined in R.C. § 4301.01, except for
small amounts of wine for sacramental purposes when the person engaging in the
specified conduct is a cleric, as defined in R.C. § 2317.02.
   (b)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to any person who conveys
or attempts to convey an item onto the grounds of a detention facility or of an
institution, office building, or other place under the control of the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services, the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, the Department of Youth Services, or the Department
of Rehabilitation and Correction, with written authorization of the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution and in accordance with the
written rules of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or
other place.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, to a prisoner who is temporarily released from confinement
for a work assignment, or to any patient in an institution under the control of
the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services, or the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, any item listed in division (a).
   (d)   No person shall knowingly deliver or attempt to deliver cash to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment.
   (e)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment a cellular telephone, two-way radio or other
electronic communications device.
   (f)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (a)(1)
of this section that the weapon or dangerous ordnance in question was being
transported in a motor vehicle for any lawful purpose, that it was not on the
actor’s person, and if the weapon or dangerous ordnance was a firearm, that it
was unloaded and was being carried in a closed package, box or case or in a
compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (c) of this
section that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by law from delivering the
item to the confined person, the child, the prisoner, or the patient and that
either of the following applies:
         A.   The actor was permitted by the written rules of the detention
facility or the institution, office building, or other place to deliver the
item to the confined person or the patient.
         B.   The actor was given written authorization by the person in charge
of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other place
to deliver the item to the confined person or the patient.
   (g)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a)(1) of this section or commits a
violation of division (c) of this section involving any item listed in division
(a)(1) of this section is guilty of illegal conveyance of weapons onto the
grounds of a specified governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (c) of this section involving any drug of abuse is guilty
of illegal conveyance of drugs of abuse onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (a)(3) of this section or commits a
violation of division (c) of this section involving any intoxicating liquor is
guilty of illegal conveyance of intoxicating liquor onto the grounds of a
specified governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of cash onto the grounds of a detention facility, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (d) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, illegal conveyance of cash onto
the grounds of a detention facility is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (e) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (e)
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
illegal conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a detention
facility is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.36)
§ 529.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.
CHAPTER 533: OBSCENITY AND SEX OFFENSES
Section
533.01   Definitions
533.02   Presumptions; notice
533.03   Unlawful sexual conduct with a minor
533.04   Sexual imposition
533.05   Importuning (Repealed)
533.06   Voyeurism
533.07   Public indecency
533.08   Procuring; engagement in sexual activity for hire
533.09   Soliciting
533.091   Loitering to engage in solicitation
533.10   Prostitution
533.11   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles
533.12   Deception to obtain matter harmful to juveniles
533.13   Displaying matter harmful to juveniles
533.14   Unlawful operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct
533.15   Juveniles on the premises of adult entertainment establishments
prohibited
533.16   Polygraph examinations for victims; restrictions on use
533.17   Rules of evidence
533.18   Declaratory judgment
533.19   Injunction; abatement of nuisance
533.20   Sexually oriented businesses; illegal operation and activity
533.21   Unlawful advertising of massage
533.22   Nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images
533.99   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators;
registration
Cross-reference:
   Complicity, see §
501.10
   Criminal trespass, see §
541.05
   Offensive conduct, see §
509.03
   Telecommunication harassment, see §
537.10
§ 533.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   HARMFUL TO JUVENILES. That quality of any material or performance
describing or representing nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sado-
masochistic abuse in any form to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, appeals to
the prurient interest of juveniles in sex.
      (2)   The material or performance is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable
for juveniles.
      (3)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, lacks
serious literary, artistic, political and scientific value for juveniles.
   (b)   JUVENILE. Any unmarried person under 18 years of age.
   (c)   MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print,
picture, figure, image, description, motion picture film, video cassette, laser
disc, phonograph record, cassette tape, compact disc or other tangible thing
capable of arousing interest through sight, sound or touch and includes an
image or text appearing on a computer monitor, television screen, liquid
crystal display or similar display device or an image or text recorded on a
computer hard disk, computer floppy disk, compact disk, magnetic tape or
similar data storage device.
   (d)   MENTAL HEALTH CLIENT OR PATIENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2305.51.
   (e)   MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2305.115.
   (f)   MINOR. A person under the age of 18.
   (g)   NUDITY. The showing, representation or depiction of human male or
female genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a full, opaque covering,
or of a female breast with less than a full, opaque covering of any portion
thereof below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state.
   (h)   OBSCENE. When considered as a whole, and judged with reference to
ordinary adults or, if it is designed for sexual deviates or other specially
susceptible group, judged with reference to that group, any material or
performance is OBSCENE if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest.
      (2)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement or nudity in a way that tends
to represent human beings as mere objects of sexual appetite.
      (3)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty or brutality.
      (4)   Its dominant tendency is to appeal to scatological interest by
displaying or depicting human bodily functions of elimination in a way that
inspires disgust or revulsion in persons with ordinary sensibilities, without
serving any genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral or artistic
purpose.
      (5)   It contains a series of displays or descriptions of sexual
activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality, extreme or
bizarre violence, cruelty or brutality, or human bodily functions of
elimination, the cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency to appeal to
prurient or scatological interest, when the appeal to such an interest is
primarily for its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather than
primarily for a genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral or
artistic purpose.
   (i)   PERFORMANCE. Any motion picture, preview, trailer, play, show, skit,
dance or other exhibition performed before an audience.
   (j)   PLACE WHERE A PERSON HAS A REASONABLE EXPECTATION OF PRIVACY. A place
where a reasonable person would believe that the person could fully disrobe in
private.
   (k)   PRIVATE AREA. The genitals, pubic area, buttocks, or female breast
below the top of the areola, where nude or covered by an undergarment.
   (l)   PROSTITUTE. A male or female who promiscuously engages in sexual
activity for hire, regardless of whether the hire is paid to the prostitute or
to another.
   (m)   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person or
the condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained.
   (n)   SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   (o)   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Vaginal intercourse between a male and female; anal
intercourse, fellatio  and cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex; and,
without privilege to do so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of the
body or any instrument, apparatus or other object into the vaginal or anal
opening of another. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
vaginal or anal intercourse.
   (p)   SEXUAL CONTACT. Any touching of an erogenous zone of another,
including without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if
the person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   (q)   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when
in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   (r)   SPOUSE. A person married to an offender at the time of an alleged
offense, except that the person shall not be considered the spouse when any of
the following apply:
      (1)   When the parties have entered into a written separation agreement
pursuant to R.C. § 3103.06.
      (2)   When an action is pending between the parties for annulment,
divorce, dissolution of marriage or legal separation.
      (3)   In the case of an action for legal separation, after the effective
date of the judgment for legal separation.
(R.C. § 2907.01)
§ 533.02 PRESUMPTIONS; NOTICE.
   (a)   An owner or manager, or agent or employee of an owner or manager, of a
bookstore, newsstand, theater or other commercial establishment engaged in
selling material or exhibiting performances, who, in the course of business
does any of the acts prohibited by §
533.11 is presumed to have knowledge of the character of the material or
performance involved if the owner, manager, or agent or employee of the owner
or manager has actual notice of the nature of the material or performance,
whether or not the owner, manager, or agent or employee of the owner or manager
has precise knowledge of its contents.
   (b)   Without limitation on the manner in which the notice may be given,
actual notice of the character of material or a performance may be given in
writing by the chief legal officer of the municipality. This notice, regardless
of the manner in which it is given, shall identify the sender, identify the
material or performance involved, state whether it is obscene or harmful to
juveniles, and bear the date of the notice.
   (c)   Section
533.11 does not apply to a motion picture operator or projectionist acting
within the scope of employment as an employee of the owner or manager of the
theater or other place for the showing of motion pictures to the general
public, and having no managerial responsibility or financial interest in the
operator’s or projectionist’s place of employment, other than wages.
   (d)   (1)   The provisions of §§
533.11,
533.12(a) and
533.13 do not apply to a person solely because the person provided access or
connection to or from an electronic method of remotely transferring information
not under that person’s control, including having provided capabilities that
are incidental to providing access or connection to or from the electronic
method of remotely transferring the information, and that do not include the
creation of the content of the material that is the subject of the access or
connection.
      (2)   Division (d)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of §
533.11, §
533.13 or §
533.12 or who knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (3)   Division (d)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
provides access or connection to an electronic method of remotely transferring
information that is engaged in the violation of §
533.11, §
533.12 or §
533.13 and that contain content that person has selected and introduced into
the electronic method of remotely transferring information or content over
which that person exercises editorial control.
   (e)   An employer is not guilty of a violation of §
533.11, §
533.12 or §
533.13 based on the actions of an employee or agent of the employer unless the
employee’s or agent’s conduct is within the scope of the employee’s or agent’s
employment or agency, and the employer does either of the following:
      (1)   With knowledge of the employee’s or agent’s conduct, the employer
authorizes or ratifies the conduct.
      (2)   The employer recklessly disregards the employee’s or agent’s
conduct.
   (f)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under §
533.11 or §
533.13 as the section applies to an image transmitted through the internet or
other electronic method of remotely transmitting information that the person
charged with violating the section has taken, in good faith, reasonable,
effective and appropriate actions under the circumstances to restrict or
prevent access by juveniles to material that is harmful to juveniles, including
any method that is feasible under available technology.
(R.C. § 2907.35)
§ 533.03 UNLAWFUL SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH A MINOR.
   (a)   No person who is 18 years of age or older shall engage in sexual
conduct with another who is not the spouse of the offender, when the offender
knows the other person is 13 years of age or older but less than 16 years of
age, or the offender is reckless in that regard.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(2), unlawful sexual
conduct with a minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(3) of this section, if
the offender is less than four years older than the other person, unlawful
sexual conduct with a minor is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02, § 2907.03 or § 2907.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of former R.C. § 2907.12, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, unlawful sexual conduct with a
minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.04)
§ 533.04 SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
   (a)   No person shall have sexual contact with another, not the spouse of
the offender; cause another, not the spouse of the offender, to have sexual
contact with the offender; or cause two or more other persons to have sexual
contact when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The offender knows that the sexual contact is offensive to the
other person, or one of the other persons, or is reckless in that regard.
      (2)   The offender knows that the other person’s, or one of the other
person’s ability to appraise the nature of or control the offender’s or
touching person’s conduct is substantially impaired.
      (3)   The offender knows that the other person, or one of the other
persons, submits because of being unaware of the sexual contact.
      (4)   The other person, or one of the other persons, is 13 years of age
or older but less than 16 years of age, whether or not the offender knows the
age of the person, and the offender is at least 18 years of age and four or
more years older than the other person.
      (5)   The offender is a mental health professional, the other person or
one of the other persons is a mental health client or patient of the offender,
and the offender induces the other person who is the client or patient to
submit by falsely representing to the other person who is the client or patient
that the sexual contact is necessary for mental health treatment purposes.
   (b)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim’s testimony unsupported by other evidence.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2907.02,
2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any combination of those
sections, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree and,
notwithstanding the range of jail terms prescribed in R.C. § 2929.24, the court
may impose on the offender a definite jail term of not more than one year.
(R.C. § 2907.06)
Statutory reference:
   Gross sexual imposition, felony, see R.C. § 2907.05
   Notice to licensing board or agency upon indictment, conviction or guilty
plea of mental health professional, see R.C. §§ 2907.17 and 2907.18
§ 533.05 IMPORTUNING (REPEALED).
Editor’s note:
   This section, formerly based on R.C. § 2907.07, was repealed because the
underlying misdemeanor offense (importuning – solicitation of a person of the
same sex to engage in sexual activity with the offender, when the offender
knows the solicitation is offensive to the other person, or is reckless in that
regard) was held unconstitutional in State v. Thompson, 767 N.E.2d 251 (Ohio
2002) (holding that the statute imposed an unconstitutional content-based
restriction on speech). For current felony provisions, see R.C. § 2907.07.
§ 533.06 VOYEURISM.
   (a)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another, to spy or eavesdrop upon another.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly commit trespass or otherwise secretly or
surreptitiously videotape, film, photograph, broadcast, stream, or otherwise
record another person, in a place where a person has a reasonable expectation
of privacy, for the purpose of viewing the private areas of that person.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly commit trespass or otherwise secretly or
surreptitiously videotape, film, photograph, broadcast, stream, or otherwise
record a minor, in a place where a person has a reasonable expectation of
privacy, for the purpose of viewing the private areas of the minor.
   (d)   No person shall secretly or surreptitiously videotape, film,
photograph, or otherwise record another person above, under, or through the
clothing being worn by that other person for the purpose of viewing the body
of, or the undergarments worn by, that other person.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of voyeurism.
      (1)   A violation of division (a) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (d) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (4)   A violation of division (c) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.08)
§ 533.07 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (a)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others who are in the person’s physical proximity and who are not
members of the person’s household:
      (1)   Expose the person’s private parts.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is in the person’s physical proximity, who is a minor, and who is
not the spouse of the offender:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (4)   Expose the person’s private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in divisions (c)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4) and (c)(5) of
this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(2), a violation
of division (a)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (a)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the third degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (a)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (a)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(3), a violation
of division (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person who was likely to view
and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
state law municipal ordinance, a violation of division (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if any person who was likely
to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(4), a violation
of division (b)(1), (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (b)(1), (b)(2) or (b)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (b)(1), (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(5), a violation
of division (b)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (b)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (d)   (1)   If either of the following applies, the court may determine at
the time of sentencing whether to classify the offender as a tier I sex
offender/child-victim offender for a violation of division (b)(4) of this
section:
         A.   The offender is less than ten years older than the other person.
         B.   The offender is ten or more years older than the other person and
the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance.
      (2)   If the offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (b)(4) of this section, is ten or more years older than the other
person, and previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the court shall issue an order at the time of sentencing that
classifies the offender as a tier I sex offender/child-victim offender subject
to registration under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and 2950.06.
(R.C. § 2907.09)
   (e)   A mother is entitled to breast-feed her baby in any location of a
place of public accommodation, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, wherein the mother
otherwise is permitted.
(R.C. § 3781.55)
Statutory reference:
   Bail considerations for persons charged, see R.C. § 2907.41
§ 533.08 PROCURING; ENGAGEMENT IN SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE.
   (a)   Procuring.
      (1)   No person, knowingly and for gain, shall do either of the
following:
         A.   Entice or solicit another to patronize a prostitute or brothel;
         B.   Procure a prostitute for another to patronize, or take or direct
another at the other’s request to any place for the purpose of patronizing a
prostitute.
      (2)   No person, having authority or responsibility over the use of
premises, shall knowingly permit the premises to be used for the purpose of
engaging in sexual activity for hire.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (a)(1)A. or (a)(1)B. of this section is
guilty of procuring. Except as otherwise provided in this division, procuring
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the prostitute who is procured,
patronized, or otherwise involved in a violation of division (a)(1)B. of this
section is under 18 years of age at the time of the violation, regardless of
whether the offender who violates division (a)(1)B. of this section knows the
prostitute’s age, or if a prostitute who engages in sexual activity for hire in
premises used in violation of division (a)(2) of this section is under 18 years
of age at the time of the violation, regardless of whether the offender who
violates division (a)(2) of this section knows the prostitute’s age, procuring
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.23)
   (b)   Engagement in sexual activity for hire.
      (1)   As used in this division (b):
         A.   PERSON WITH A DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. Has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 2905.32.
         B.   SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE. An implicit or explicit agreement to
provide sexual activity in exchange for anything of value paid to the person
engaging in such sexual activity, to any person trafficking that person, or to
any person associated with either such person.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person.
      (3)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person if the other person is a person with a
developmental disability and the offender knows or has reasonable cause to
believe that the other person is a person with a developmental disability.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (b)(2) of this section is guilty of
engaging in prostitution, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates
division (b)(3) of this section is guilty of engaging in prostitution with a
person with a developmental disability, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. In sentencing an offender under this division for a
violation of division (b)(2) of this section, the court shall require the
offender to attend an education or treatment program aimed at preventing
persons from inducing, enticing, or procuring another to engage in sexual
activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything of value to the
other person. Notwithstanding the fine specified in R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a) for
a misdemeanor of the first degree, in sentencing an offender under this
division for a violation of division (b)(2) of this section, the court may
impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $1,500.
(R.C. § 2907.231)
§ 533.09 SOLICITING.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly solicit another to engage in sexual activity
for hire in exchange for the person receiving anything of value from the other
person.
   (b)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (a) of this section.
   (c)   As used in division (a) of this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE
means an implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in  exchange
for anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to
any person trafficking that person, or to any person associated with either
such person.
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
soliciting. Soliciting is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of engaging
in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.24)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 533.091 LOITERING TO ENGAGE IN SOLICITATION.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to solicit another to engage in sexual
activity for hire and while in or near a public place, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Beckon to, stop or attempt to stop another;
      (2)   Engage or attempt to engage another in conversation;
      (3)   Stop or attempt to stop the operator of a vehicle or approach a
stationary vehicle;
      (4)   If the offender is the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle,
stop, attempt to stop, beckon to, attempt to beckon to, or entice another to
approach or enter the vehicle of which the offender is the operator or in which
the offender is the passenger; and/or
      (5)   Interfere with the free passage of another.
   (b)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (a) of this section.
   (c)   For the purpose of division (a) of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   PUBLIC PLACE. Any of the following:
         A.   A street, road, highway, thoroughfare, bikeway, walkway,
sidewalk, bridge, alley, alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility.
         B.   A doorway or entrance way to a building that fronts on a place
described in division (1)A. of this definition.
         C.   A place not described in division (1)A. or (1)B. of this
definition that is open to the public.
      (2)   VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.241)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 533.10 PROSTITUTION.
   (a)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (b)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in sexual activity for hire.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
prostitution, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of engaging
in prostitution after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.25)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 533.11 DISSEMINATING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (a)   No person, with knowledge of its character or content, shall
recklessly do any of following:
      (1)   Directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit,
rent or present to a juvenile any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles;
      (2)   Offer or agree to sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide,
exhibit, rent or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles;
or
      (3)   While in the physical proximity of the juvenile or law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, allow any juvenile or law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile to review or peruse any material or view any live
performance that is harmful to juveniles.
   (b)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section
that involves material or a performance that is harmful to juveniles but not
obscene:
      (1)   The defendant is the parent, guardian or spouse of the juvenile
involved.
      (2)   The juvenile involved, at the time of the conduct in question, was
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who, with knowledge of its
character, consented to the material or performance being furnished or
presented to the juvenile.
      (3)   The juvenile exhibited to the defendant or his or her agent or
employee a draft card, driver’s license, birth record, marriage license or
other official or apparently official document purporting to show that the
juvenile was 18 years of age or over or married, and the person to whom the
document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable cause to believe that
the juvenile was under the age of 18 and unmarried.
   (c)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section,
involving material or a performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles,
that the material or performance was furnished or presented for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, governmental, judicial or other proper
purpose, by a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher,
librarian, clergy, prosecutor, judge or other proper person.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (b)(3) of this section, mistake of
age is not a defense to a charge under this section.
   (d)   (1)   A person directly sells, delivers, furnishes, disseminates,
provides, exhibits, rents or presents or directly offers or agrees to sell,
deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent or present material or a
performance to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section by means of an electronic method of
remotely transmitting information if the person knows or has reason to believe
that the person receiving the information is a juvenile or the group of persons
receiving the information are juveniles.
      (2)   A person remotely transmitting information by means of a method of
mass distribution does not directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent or present or directly offer or agree to sell, deliver,
furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent or present the material or
performance in question to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section if either of the following applies:
         A.   The person has inadequate information to know or have reason to
believe that a particular recipient of the information or offer is a juvenile.
         B.   The method of mass distribution does not provide the person the
ability to prevent a particular recipient from receiving the information.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles. If the material or performance involved is harmful to
juveniles except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the material or performance
involved is obscene, violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.31)
§ 533.12 DECEPTION TO OBTAIN MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (a)   No person, for the purpose of enabling a juvenile to obtain any
material or gain admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is the parent, guardian or spouse
of the juvenile.
      (2)   Furnish the juvenile with any identification or document purporting
to show that the juvenile is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (b)   No juvenile, for the purpose of obtaining any material or gaining
admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles, shall do either of
the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is 18 years of age or over or
married.
      (2)   Exhibit any identification or document purporting to show that he
or she is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain matter
harmful to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the second degree. A juvenile who
violates division (b) of this section shall be adjudged an unruly child, with
the disposition of the case as may be appropriate under R.C. Chapter 2151.
(R.C. § 2907.33)
§ 533.13 DISPLAYING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (a)   No person who has custody, control or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character or content of the material
involved, shall display at the establishment any material that is harmful to
juveniles and that is open to view by juveniles as part of the invited general
public.
   (b)   It is not a violation of division (a) of this section if the material
in question is displayed by placing it behind “blinder racks” or similar
devices that cover at least the lower two-thirds of the material, if the
material in question is wrapped or placed behind the counter, or if the
material in question otherwise is covered or located so that the portion that
is harmful to juveniles is not open to the view of juveniles.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of displaying matter harmful
to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day during which the
offender is in violation of this section constitutes a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2907.311)
§ 533.14 UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VIEWING BOOTHS DEPICTING SEXUAL CONDUCT.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. An entity that is open to the public and
to which either of the following applies:
         A.   It has a substantial or significant portion of its stock-in-trade
of the sale, rental or viewing of visual materials or performances depicting
sexual conduct.
         B.   It has as a principal business purpose the sale, rental or
viewing of visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct.
      (2)   VISUAL MATERIALS OR PERFORMANCES. Films, videos, CD-ROM discs,
streaming video or other motion pictures.
   (b)   No person who has custody, control or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character of the visual material or
performance involved, shall knowingly permit the use of, or offer the use of,
viewing booths, stalls or partitioned portions of a room located in the
commercial establishment for the purpose of viewing visual materials or
performances depicting sexual conduct unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The inside of each booth, stall or partitioned room is visible
from, and at least one side of each booth, stall or partitioned room is open
to, a continuous and contiguous main aisle or hallway that is open to the
public areas of the commercial establishment and is not obscured by any
curtain, door or other covering or enclosure.
      (2)   No booth, stall or partitioned room is designed, constructed,
pandered or allowed to be used for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating
nudity or sexual activity on the part of or between patrons or members of the
public, and no booth, stall or partitioned room has any aperture, hole or
opening for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating nudity or sexual
activity.
   (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
either of the following applies to the involved visual materials or
performances:
      (1)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct are
disseminated or presented for a bona fide medical, scientific, educational,
religious, governmental, judicial or other proper purpose and by or to a
physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher, person pursuing bona
fide studies or research, librarian, member of the clergy, prosecutor, judge or
other person having a proper interest in the visual materials or performances.
      (2)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct,
taken as a whole, would be found by a reasonable person to have serious
literary, artistic, political or scientific value or are presented or
disseminated in good faith for a serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific purpose and are not pandered for their prurient appeal.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting unlawful
operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2907.38)
§ 533.15 JUVENILES ON THE PREMISES OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
PROHIBITED.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited
in which coin-operated, slug-operated or electronically, electrically or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other
image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or
fewer persons per machine at any one time, and in which the images so displayed
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
         A.   A commercial establishment that, for any form of consideration,
has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-trade in, derives a
significant or substantial portion of its revenues from, devotes a significant
or substantial portion of its interior business or advertising to, or maintains
a substantial section of its sales or display space for the sale or rental of
any of the following:
            1.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides or
other visual representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas; or
            2.   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia that are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of self or others.
         B.   Includes a commercial establishment as defined in R.C. § 2907.38.
An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do not involve
the offering for sale, rental or viewing of materials exhibiting or describing
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and still be
categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store or adult video store.
The existence of other principal business purposes does not exempt an
establishment from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store
or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes is
offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, such materials
that exhibit or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      (3)   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club
or similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, that regularly features any of the following:
         A.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity;
         B.   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities; or
         C.   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      (4)   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. The sale, rental or exhibition, for any form
of consideration, of books, films, video cassettes, magazines, periodicals or
live performances that are characterized by an emphasis on the exposure or
display of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activity.
      (5)   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. An adult arcade, adult
bookstore, adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, nude or seminude model studio or sexual
encounter establishment. An establishment in which a medical practitioner,
psychologist, psychiatrist or similar professional person licensed by the state
engages in medically approved and recognized therapy, including, but not
limited to, massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not an
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT.
      (6)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar photographic
reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon
the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas are regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      (7)   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar
commercial establishment that, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity or live
performances that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      (8)   DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY THEIR EMPHASIS UPON. The dominant
or principal character and theme of the object described by this phrase. For
instance, when the phrase refers to films “that are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas,” the films so described are
those whose dominant or principal character and theme are the exhibition or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (9)   NUDE OR SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person, who
regularly appears in a state of nudity or seminudity, is provided for money or
any other form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by other persons. A modeling
class or studio is not a NUDE OR SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO and is not subject to
this chapter if it is operated in any of the following ways:
         A.   By a college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
         B.   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs, the credits for which are transferable to a college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
         C.   In a structure that has no sign visible from the exterior of the
structure and no other advertising indicating that a person appearing in a
state of nudity or seminudity is available for viewing, if in order to
participate in a class in the structure, a student must enroll at least three
days in advance of the class and if not more than one nude or seminude model is
on the premises at any one time.
      (10)   NUDITY, NUDE or STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or
female genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than
a fully opaque covering; or the showing of the female breasts with less than a
fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple.
      (11)   REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN. A consistent or substantial
course of conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a
substantial portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the
ongoing business of the adult entertainment establishment.
      (12)   SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY. A state of dress in which opaque
clothing covers not more than the genitals, pubic region and nipple of the
female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
      (13)   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT.
         A.   A business or commercial establishment that, as one of its
principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration a place where
either of the following occur:
            1.   Two or more persons may congregate, associate or consort for
the purpose of engaging in specified sexual activities.
            2.   Two or more persons appear nude or seminude for the purpose of
displaying their nude or seminude bodies for their receipt of consideration or
compensation in any type or form.
         B.   An establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including, but not limited to,
massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not a SEXUAL
ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT.
      (14)   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. The cleft of the buttocks, anus, male
or female genitals, or the female breast.
      (15)   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following:
         A.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, or actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation or sodomy; or
         B.   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the
activities described in division A. of this definition.
   (b)   No person knowingly shall allow an individual, including, but not
limited to, a patron, customer, or employee, who is under 18 years of age on
the premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (c)   No individual who is under 18 years of age knowingly shall show or
give false information concerning the individual’s name or age, or other false
identification, for the purpose of gaining entrance to an adult entertainment
establishment.
   (d)   A person shall not be found guilty of a violation of division (b) of
this section if the person raises as an affirmative defense and if the jury or,
in a nonjury trial, the court finds the person has established by a
preponderance of the evidence, all of the following:
      (1)   The individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment exhibited to an operator, employee, agent or independent
contractor of the adult entertainment establishment a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and
4507.52 showing that the individual was then at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   The operator, employee, agent or independent contractor made a bona
fide effort to ascertain the true age of the individual gaining entrance to the
adult entertainment establishment by checking the identification presented, at
the time of entrance, to ascertain that the description on the identification
compared with the appearance of the individual and that the identification had
not been altered in any way.
      (3)   The operator, employee, agent or independent contractor had reason
to believe that the individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment was at least 18 years of age.
   (e)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense described in
division (d) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or the
Deputy Registrar who issued a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and 4507.52 shall be permitted to
submit certified copies of the records, in the Registrar’s or Deputy
Registrar’s possession, of the issuance of the license or identification card
in question, in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the action.
   (f)   (1)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
permitting a juvenile on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day a person violates this division
constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of use by a
juvenile of false information to enter an adult entertainment establishment, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if committed by
an adult.
(R.C. § 2907.39)
§ 533.16 POLYGRAPH EXAMINATIONS FOR VICTIMS; RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (a)   (1)   A peace officer, prosecutor, other public official, defendant,
defendant's attorney, alleged juvenile offender, or alleged juvenile offender's
attorney shall not ask or require a victim of an alleged sex offense to submit
to a polygraph examination as a condition for proceeding with the investigation
or prosecution of the alleged sex offense.
      (2)   The refusal of the victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a
polygraph examination shall not prevent the investigation of the alleged sex
offense, the filing of criminal charges with respect to the alleged sex
offense, or the prosecution of the alleged perpetrator of the alleged sex
offense.
   (b)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      A.   ALLEGED JUVENILE OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2930.01.
      B.   PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.51.
      C.   POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION. Any mechanical or electrical instrument or
device of any type used or allegedly used to examine, test or question an
individual for the purpose of  determining the individual’s truthfulness.
      D.   PROSECUTION. The prosecution of criminal charges in a criminal
prosecution or the prosecution of a delinquent child complaint in a delinquency
proceeding.
      E.   PROSECUTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      F.   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 117.01.
      G.   SEX OFFENSE. A violation of any provision of §§ 533.03 to 533.07 or
R.C. §§ 2907.02 to 2907.09.
(R.C. § 2907.10)
§ 533.17 RULES OF EVIDENCE.
   (a)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a place is a
brothel, evidence as to the reputation of the place and as to the reputation of
the persons who inhabit or frequent it is admissible on the question of whether
the place is or is not a brothel.
   (b)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a person is a
prostitute, evidence as to the reputation of the person is admissible on the
question of whether the person is or is not a prostitute.
   (c)   In any prosecution for a violation of §§
533.08 to
533.10, proof of a prior conviction of the accused of any such offense or
substantially equivalent offense is admissible in support of the charge.
   (d)   The prohibition contained in R.C. § 2317.02(D) against testimony by a
husband or wife concerning communications between them does not apply, and the
accused’s spouse may testify concerning any such communication in any of the
following cases:
      (1)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
533.08 and the spouse testifying was the prostitute involved in the offense or
the person who used the offender’s premises to engage in sexual activity for
hire; or
      (2)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
533.09 or §
533.10.
(R.C. § 2907.26)
§ 533.18 DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (a)   Without limitation on the persons otherwise entitled to bring an
action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2721, involving the
same issue, the following persons have standing to bring a declaratory judgment
action to determine whether particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles:
      (1)   The chief legal officer of the municipality if and when there is
reasonable cause to believe that R.C. § 2907.31 or § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated; and
      (2)   Any person who, pursuant to R.C. § 2907.35(B) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, has received notice in writing from the chief
legal officer stating that particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles.
   (b)   Any party to an action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to division
(a) of this section is entitled, upon the party’s request, to trial on the
merits within five days after joinder of the issues, and the court shall render
judgment within five days after trial is concluded.
   (c)   An action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to division (a) of this
section shall not be brought during the pendency of any civil action or
criminal prosecution when the character of the particular materials or
performances involved is at issue in the pending case, and either of the
following applies:
      (1)   Either of the parties to the action for a declaratory judgment is a
party to the pending case; or
      (2)   A judgment in the pending case will necessarily constitute res
judicata as to the character of the materials or performances involved.
   (d)   A civil action or criminal prosecution in which the character of
particular materials or performances is at issue, brought during the pendency
of an action for a declaratory judgment involving the same issue, shall be
stayed during the pendency of the action for a declaratory judgment.
   (e)   The fact that a violation of R.C. § 2907.31 or § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, occurs prior to a judicial
determination of the character of the material or performance involved in the
violation does not relieve the offender of criminal liability for the
violation, even though prosecution may be stayed pending the judicial
determination.
(R.C. § 2907.36)
§ 533.19 INJUNCTION; ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (a)   Where it appears that R.C. § 2907.31 or § 2907.32, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be violated, the chief
legal officer of the municipality may bring an action to enjoin the violation.
The defendant, upon his or her request, is entitled to trial on the merits
within five days after the joinder of the issues, and the court shall render
judgment within five days after the trial is concluded.
   (b)   Premises used or occupied for repeated violations of R.C. § 2907.31 or
§ 2907.32, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2907.37)
§ 533.20 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ILLEGAL OPERATION AND ACTIVITY.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment
that has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in- trade or
inventory in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues
from, devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental, for any form of consideration, of books,
magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides or other visual
representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (2)   ADULT CABARET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      (3)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or similar photographic
reproductions that are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown
to more than five individuals for any form of consideration.
      (4)   CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of
an item.
      (5)   EMPLOYEE. Any individual who performs any service on the premises
of a sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time or contract basis,
regardless of whether the individual is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent or otherwise, but does not include an individual exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
      (6)   NUDITY, NUDE or STATE OF NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2907.39.
      (7)   OPERATOR. Any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation
the business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises.
      (8)   PATRON. Any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business except for any of the following:
         A.   An operator or an employee of the sexually oriented business;
         B.   An individual who is on the premises exclusively for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises; or
         C.   A public employee or a volunteer firefighter emergency medical
services worker acting within the scope of the public employee’s or volunteer’s
duties as a public employee or volunteer.
      (9)   PREMISES. The real property on which the sexually oriented business
is located and all appurtenances to the real property, including, but not
limited to, the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways and
parking lots or parking garages adjacent to the real property under the
ownership, control or supervision of the owner or operator of the sexually
oriented business.
      (10)   REGULARLY. Consistently or repeatedly.
      (11)   SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2907.39.
      (12)   SEXUAL DEVICE. Any three- dimensional object designed and marketed
for stimulation of the male or female human genitals or anus or female breasts
or for sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, including, but not
limited to, dildos, vibrators, penis pumps and physical representations of the
human genital organs, but not including devices primarily intended for
protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
      (13)   SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. A commercial establishment that regularly
features sexual devices, but not including any pharmacy, drug store, medical
clinic or establishment primarily dedicated to providing medical or healthcare
products or services, and not including any commercial establishment that does
not restrict access to its premises by reason of age.
      (14)   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that,
as one of its principal business purposes, purports to offer for any form of
consideration physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
individuals of the opposite sex when one or more of the individuals is nude or
seminude.
      (15)   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult bookstore, adult video store,
adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, sexual device shop or sexual
encounter center, but does not include a business solely by reason of its
showing, selling or renting materials that may depict sex.
      (16)   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes human genitals, pubic region
and buttocks and the human female breast below a point immediately above the
top of the areola.
      (17)   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual intercourse, oral copulation,
masturbation or sodomy, or excretory functions as a part of or in connection
with any of these activities.
   (b)   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business
between midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that a sexually oriented
business that holds a liquor permit pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 may remain
open until the hour specified in that permit if it does not conduct, offer or
allow sexually oriented entertainment activity in which the performers appear
nude.
   (c)   (1)   No patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family
shall knowingly touch any employee while that employee is nude or seminude or
touch the clothing of any employee while that employee is nude or seminude.
      (2)   No employee who regularly appears nude or seminude on the premises
of a sexually oriented business, while on the premises of that sexually
oriented business and while nude or seminude, shall knowingly touch a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or the clothing of a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or allow a patron who is not
a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who is not a
member of the employee’s immediate family to touch the employee or the clothing
of the employee.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of illegally
operating a sexually oriented business, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (e)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of illegal
sexually oriented activity in a sexually oriented business. If the offender
touches a specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing
covering a specified anatomical area, a violation of division (c) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender does not touch a
specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing covering a
specified anatomical area, a violation of division (c) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2907.40)
Statutory reference:
   State indemnification for certain municipal liability stemming from local
adult business regulations, see R.C. § 715.55
§ 533.21 UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING OF MASSAGE.
   (a)   No person, by means of a statement, solicitation, or offer in a print
or electronic publication, sign, placard, storefront display, or other medium,
shall advertise massage, relaxation massage, any other massage technique or
method, or any related service, with the suggestion or promise of sexual
activity.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful advertising of
massage, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (c)   Nothing in this section prevents the municipality from enacting any
regulation of the advertising of massage further than and in addition to the
provisions of divisions (a) and (b) of this section.
   (d)   As used in this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2907.01.
(R.C. § 2927.17)
§ 533.22 NONCONSENSUAL DISSEMINATION OF PRIVATE SEXUAL IMAGES.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   CABLE SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.01.
      (2)   DIRECT-TO-HOME SATELLITE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47
U.S.C. § 303, as amended.
      (3)   DISSEMINATE. Means to post, distribute, or publish on a computer
device, computer network, web site, or other electronic device or medium of
communication.
      (4)   IMAGE. Means a photograph, film, videotape, digital recording, or
other depiction or portrayal of a person.
      (5)   INTERACTIVE COMPUTER SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in the
“Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 230, as amended.
      (6)   INTERNET PROVIDER. Means a provider of internet service, including
all of the following:
         A.   Broadband service, however defined or classified by the Federal
Communications Commission;
         B.   Information service or telecommunications service, both as
defined in the “Tele-communications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended;
         C.   Internet protocol- enabled services, as defined in R.C. §
4927.01.
      (7)   MOBILE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as
amended.
      (8)   SEXUAL ACT. Means any of the following:
         A.   Sexual activity;
         B.   Masturbation;
         C.   An act involving a bodily substance that is performed for the
purpose of sexual arousal or gratification;
         D.   Sado-masochistic abuse.
      (9)    TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. §
153, as amended.
      (10)   VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly disseminate an image of another person if
all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person in the image is 18 years of age or older.
      (2)   The person in the image can be identified from the image itself or
from information displayed in connection with the image and the offender
supplied the identifying information.
      (3)   The person in the image is in a state of nudity or is engaged in a
sexual act.
      (4)   The image is disseminated without consent from the person in the
image.
      (5)   The image is disseminated with intent to harm the person in the
image.
   (c)   This section does not prohibit the dissemination of an image if any of
the following apply:
      (1)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of a criminal
investigation that is otherwise lawful.
      (2)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the reporting of unlawful conduct.
      (3)   The image is part of a news report or commentary or an artistic or
expressive work, such as a performance, work of art, literary work, theatrical
work, musical work, motion picture, film, or audiovisual work.
      (4)   The image is disseminated by a law enforcement officer, or a
corrections officer or guard in a detention facility, acting within the scope
of the person’s official duties.
      (5)   The image is disseminated for another lawful public purpose.
      (6)   The person in the image is knowingly and willingly in a state of
nudity or engaged in a sexual act and is knowingly and willingly in a location
in which the person does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy.
      (7)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of medical treatment or
examination.
   (d)   The following entities are not liable for a violation of this section
solely as a result of an image or other information provided by another person:
      (1)   A provider of interactive computer service;
      (2)   A mobile service;
      (3)   A telecommunications carrier;
      (4)   An internet provider;
      (5)   A cable service provider;
      (6)   A direct-to-home satellite service;
      (7)   A video service provider.
   (e)   Any conduct that is a violation of this section and any other section
of this Code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (f)   (1)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (f)(1)B., (f)
(1)C., or (f)(1)D. of this section, whoever violates this section is guilty of
nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images, a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state or
local law, nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images is a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
         C.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or any substantially
equivalent state or local law, nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual
images is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         D.   If the offender is under 18 years of age and the person in the
image is not more than five years older than the offender, the offender shall
not be prosecuted under this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty or disposition authorized or
required by law, the court may order any person who is convicted of a violation
of this section or who is adjudicated delinquent by reason of a violation of
this section to criminally forfeit all of the following property to the state
under R.C. Chapter 2981:
         A.   Any profits or proceeds and any property the person has acquired
or maintained in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines
to have been acquired or maintained as a result of the violation;
         B.   Any interest in, securities of, claim against, or property or
contractual right of any kind affording a source of influence over any
enterprise that the person has established, operated, controlled, or conducted
in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines to have been
acquired or maintained as a result of the violation.
   (g)   A victim of a violation of this section may commence a civil cause of
action against the offender, as described in R.C. § 2307.66.
(R.C. § 2917.211)
§ 533.99 SENTENCING FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED OFFENSES; SEXUAL PREDATORS;
REGISTRATION.
   (a)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, and the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender relative to the offense or the offense is any offense listed in R.C. §
2901.07(D)(1) to (D)(3), the judge shall include in the offender’s sentence a
statement that the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim offender,
shall comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2950.03, and shall require the
offender to submit to a DNA specimen collection procedure pursuant to R.C. §
2901.07.
   (b)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or a
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, the judge shall include in the sentence a summary of the
offender’s duties imposed under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05 and 2950.06,
and the duration of the duties. The judge shall inform the offender, at the
time of sentencing, of those duties and of their duration. If required under
R.C. § 2950.03(A)(2), the judge shall perform the duties specified in that
section or, if required under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(6), the judge shall perform the
duties specified in that division.
(R.C. § 2929.23)
CHAPTER 537: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
537.001   Definitions
537.01   Negligent homicide
537.02   Vehicular homicide; vehicular manslaughter; vehicular assault
537.03   Assault
537.04   Negligent assault
537.05   Aggravated menacing
537.051   Menacing by stalking
537.06   Menacing
537.07   Endangering children
537.08   Unlawful restraint
537.09   Coercion
537.10   Telecommunication harassment
537.11   Unlawful collection of bodily substances
537.12   Misuse of 9-1-1 system
537.13   Placing harmful substance or objects in food or confection
537.14   Domestic violence
537.15   Temporary protection order (Recodified)
537.16   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products; transaction scans
537.17   Criminal child enticement (Repealed)
537.18   Contributing to unruliness or delinquency of a child
537.19   Nonsupport of dependents
537.20   Interference with custody
537.21   Safety of crowds attending live entertainment performances
537.22   Hazing
537.23   Intimidation in connection with housing
537.24   Failing to provide for a person with a functional impairment
537.25   Failure to perform viability testing
537.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fighting; provoking violent response, see §
509.03
   Physical harm to persons defined, see §
501.01(m)
§ 537.001 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this chapter and any other provision of these
codified ordinances, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   ANOTHER’S UNBORN or OTHER PERSON’S UNBORN. A member of the species
homo sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of another during a period that
begins with fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth
occurs.
      (2)   UNLAWFUL TERMINATION OF ANOTHER’S PREGNANCY. Causing the death of
an unborn member of the species homo sapiens who is or was carried in the womb
of another, as a result of injuries inflicted during the period that begins
with fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth occurs.
   (b)   Notwithstanding division (a) of this section, in no case shall the
definitions of the terms ANOTHER’S UNBORN, OTHER PERSON’S UNBORN and UNLAWFUL
TERMINATION OF ANOTHER’S PREGNANCY that are set forth in division (a) of this
section be applied or construed in any of the following manners:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(1) of this section, in
a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as prohibiting any
pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion with the consent of
the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman implied by law in a
medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise authorized by law to
consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant woman. An abortion that
violates the conditions described in the immediately preceding sentence may be
punished as any violation of R.C. § 2903.01, § 2903.02, § 2903.03, § 2903.04, §
2903.05, § 2903.06, § 2903.08, § 2903.11, § 2903.12, § 2903.13, § 2903.14, §
2903.21 or § 2903.22, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, as
applicable. An abortion that does not violate the conditions described in the
second immediately preceding sentence but that does violate R.C. § 2919.12, §
2919.13(B), § 2919.15, § 2919.151, § 2919.17 or § 2919.18, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of the section,
as applicable.
      (2)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
         A.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby.
         B.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a viable,
unborn human that she is carrying.
         C.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who dies
from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human.
         D.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human.
         E.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in any
other manner, an injury, illness or other psychological illness or condition,
regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human that she is
carrying.
(R.C. § 2903.09)
§ 537.01 NEGLIGENT HOMICIDE.
   (a)   No person shall negligently cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another’s pregnancy by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent homicide, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.05)
Statutory reference:
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
§ 537.02 VEHICULAR HOMICIDE; VEHICULAR MANSLAUGHTER; VEHICULAR ASSAULT.
   (a)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, snowmobile, locomotive, watercraft or aircraft,
shall cause the death of another or the unlawful termination of another’s
pregnancy in any of the following ways:
      (1)   A.   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4511.19(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         B.   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
1547.11(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance; or
         C.   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4561.15(A)(3) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   In one of the following ways:
         A.   Recklessly; or
         B.   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a reckless operation offense, provided that this division
applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is
unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s
commission of the reckless operation offense in the construction zone and does
not apply as described in division (d) of this section.
      (3)   In one of the following ways:
         A.   Negligently; or
         B.   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies only
if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is unlawfully terminated
is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s commission of the
speeding offense in the construction zone and does not apply as described in
division (d) of this section.
      (4)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of any provision
of any section contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor or of a
municipal ordinance that, regardless of the penalty set by ordinance for the
violation, is substantially equivalent to any provision of any section
contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section is
guilty of aggravated vehicular homicide, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates division (a)(3) of this section is guilty of
vehicular homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
homicide is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide committed in
violation of division (a)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving
under a suspension or cancellation imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or
motorcycle, did not have a valid driver's license, commercial driver's license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the offender's driver's license
or commercial driver's license without examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of this section or any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault
offense.
         B.   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class four suspension of
the offender's driver's license, commercial driver's license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   A.   Whoever violates division (a)(4) of this section is guilty of
vehicular manslaughter. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
vehicular manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Vehicular
manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the first degree if, at the time of the
offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed
under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Revised Code or was
operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal
of the offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s license without
examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-
related homicide, manslaughter or assault offense.
         B.   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class six suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6); or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this
section, any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter or assault offense, or a
traffic-related murder, felonious assault or attempted murder offense, a class
four suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
   (c)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least 15 days on an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation of
division (a)(3)B. of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
   (d)   Divisions (a)(2)B. and (a)(3)B. of this section do not apply in a
particular construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. §
2903.081 are erected in that construction zone in accordance with the
guidelines and design specifications established by the Director of
Transportation under R.C. § 5501.27. The failure to erect signs of the type
described in R.C. § 2903.081 in a particular construction zone in accordance
with those guidelines and design specifications does not limit or affect the
application of division (a)(1), (a)(2)A., (a)(3)A. or (a)(4) of this section in
that construction zone or the prosecution of any person who violates any of
those divisions in that construction zone.
   (e)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         A.   CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         B.   MANDATORY PRISON TERM and MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         C.   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
         D.   RECKLESS OPERATION OFFENSE. A violation of R.C. § 4511.20 or a
municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to R.C. § 4511.20.
         E.   SPEEDING OFFENSE. A violation of R.C. § 4511.21 or a municipal
ordinance pertaining to speed.
         F.   TRAFFIC- RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. A
violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in circumstances in which division (D) of that
section applies, a violation of R.C. § 2903.06 or § 2903.08, or a violation of
R.C. § 2903.06, § 2903.07 or § 2903.08 as they existed prior to March 23, 2000.
         G.   TRAFFIC- RELATED MURDER, FELONIOUS ASSAULT OR ATTEMPTED MURDER
OFFENSE. A violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or § 2903.02 in circumstances in which
the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to commit the violation, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.11(A)(2) in circumstances in which the deadly weapon
used in the commission of the violation is a motor vehicle, or an attempt to
commit aggravated murder or murder in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 in
circumstances in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to
attempt to commit the aggravated murder or murder.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or current or former
law of this or another state or the United States.
(R.C. § 2903.06)
   (f)   Vehicular assault.
      (1)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle or motorcycle, shall cause serious physical harm to another
person or another’s unborn as the proximate result of committing, while
operating or participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in
a construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies
only if the person to whom the serious physical harm is caused or to whose
unborn the serious physical harm is caused is in the construction zone at the
time of the offender’s commission of the speeding offense in the construction
zone and does not apply as described in division (f)(4) of this section.
      (2)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
assault committed in violation of division (f)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular assault committed in violation of
division (f)(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving under a
suspension imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code or if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (f)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2903.08, or
any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         B.   In addition to any other sanctions imposed, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least seven days
on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation
of division (f)(1) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
      (4)   Division (f)(1) of this section does not apply in a particular
construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. § 2903.081 are
erected in that construction zone in accordance with the guidelines and design
specifications established by the Director of Transportation under R.C. §
5501.27.
      (5)   As used in this division (f):
         A.   “Construction zone.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         B.   “Mandatory jail term.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         C.   “Speeding offense.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
         D.   “Traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.” Has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
      (6)   For the purposes of this division (f), when a penalty or suspension
is enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a
prior or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the
specified law or the specified offense includes any violation of any
         substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this
state, or current or former law of another state or the United States.
(R.C. 2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E) - (G))
Statutory reference:
   Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see
R.C. § 2903.08
   Trial court to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. §§ 4510.05, 4510.10
§ 537.03 ASSAULT.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to
another or to another’s unborn.
   (b)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to another or
to another’s unborn.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) or (b) of this section is guilty of
assault. Except as provided in R.C. § 2903.13(C), assault is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
   (d)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to assault when it
is a misdemeanor also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification as
described in R.C. § 2941.1423 (victim of the offense was a woman whom the
defendant knew was pregnant at the time of the offense) that was included in
the indictment, count in the indictment, or information charging the offense,
the court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term as provided in
R.C. § 2929.24(F).
   (e)   A prosecution for a violation of division (a) or (b) of this section
does not preclude a prosecution of a violation of any other section of the Ohio
Revised Code. One or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of behavior that
can be prosecuted under division (a) or (b) of this section or any other
section of the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under division (a) or (b) of
this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code, the municipal
ordinance, or both sections. However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of division (a) or (b) of this section and also is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.22, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, based on the same conduct
involving the same victim that was the basis of the violation of division (a)
or (b) of this section, the offenses are allied offenses of similar import
under R.C. § 2941.25.
(R.C. § 2903.13)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated and felonious assault, see R.C. §§ 2903.11 and 2903.12
   Aggravated vehicular assault, felony, see R.C. § 2903.08
   Felony assault offenses, see R.C. § 2903.18
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
§ 537.04 NEGLIGENT ASSAULT.
   (a)   No person shall negligently, by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, cause physical harm to another or to
another’s unborn.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent assault, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2903.14)
§ 537.05 AGGRAVATED MENACING.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the offender
will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the other person,
such other person’s unborn, or a member of that other person’s immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the
offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the
other person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s
immediate family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of
the offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or
other organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated menacing. Except
as otherwise provided in this division (b), aggravated menacing is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or a private child placing agency
and the offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or
anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties, aggravated
menacing is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law or, if the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to an offense of
violence, the victim of that prior offense was an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or private child placing agency, and that prior
offense related to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (c)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION includes an entity that is a
governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.21)
§ 537.051 MENACING BY STALKING.
   (a)   Prohibited conduct.
      (1)   A.   No person by engaging in a pattern of conduct shall knowingly
cause another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
the other person or a family or household member of the other person or cause
mental distress to the other person or a family or household member of the
other person. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that
the offender will cause physical harm to the other person or the other person’s
family or household member or mental distress to the other person or the other
person’s family or household member, the other person’s belief or mental
distress may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are directed at
or identify a corporation, association, or other organization that employs the
other person or to which the other person belongs.
         B.   No person, through the use of any form of written communication
or any electronic method of remotely transferring information, including but
not limited to any computer, computer network, computer program, computer
system, or telecommunication device, shall post a message or use any
intentionally written or verbal graphic gesture with purpose to urge do either
of the following:
            1.   Violate division (a)(1)A. of this section;
            2.   Urge or incite another to commit a violation of division (a)
(1)A. of this section.
         C.   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (a)
(1)A. or (a)(1)B. of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(1) of this section is guilty of
menacing by stalking.
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (a)(2)B. of this
section, menacing by stalking is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   Menacing by stalking is a felony, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law, if any of the following applies:
            1.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.211 or a violation of R.C. § 2911.211, or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to either of these offenses.
            2.   In committing the offense under division (a)(1)A., (a)(1)B. or
(a)(1)C. of this section, the offender made a threat of physical harm to or
against the victim, or as a result of an offense committed under division (a)
(1)B. or (a)(1)C. of this section, a third person induced by the offender’s
posted message made a threat of physical harm to or against the victim.
            3.   In committing the offense under division (a)(1)A., (a)(1)B. or
(a)(1)C. of this section, the offender trespassed on the land or premises where
the victim lives, is employed or attends school, or as a result of an offense
committed under division (a)(1)B. or (a)(1)C. of this section, a third person
induced by the offender’s posted message trespassed on the land or premises
where the victim lives, is employed or attends school.
            4.   The victim of the offense is a minor.
            5.   The offender has a history of violence towards the victim or
any other person or a history of other violent acts towards the victim or any
other person.
            6.   While committing the offense under division (a)(1)A. of this
section or a violation of division (a)(1)C. of this section based on conduct in
violation of division (a)(1)A. of this section, the offender had a deadly
weapon on or about the offender’s person or under the offender’s control.
Division (a)(2)B.6. of this section does not apply in determining the penalty
for a violation of division (a)(1)B. of this section or a violation of division
(a)(1)C. of this section based on conduct in violation of division (a)(1)B. of
this section.
            7.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under R.C. § 2903.213 or § 2903.214,
regardless of whether or not the person to be protected under the order is the
victim of the offense or another person.
            8.   In committing the offense under division (a)(1)A., (a)(1)B. or
(a)(1)C. of this section, the offender caused serious physical harm to the
premises at which the victim resides, to the real property on which that
premises is located, or to any personal property located on that premises, or
as a result of an offense committed under division (a)(1)B. of this section or
an offense committed under division (a)(1)C. of this section based on a
violation of division (a)(1)B. of this section, a third person induced by the
offender’s posted message caused serious physical harm to that premises, that
real property or any personal property on that premises.
            9.   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then- recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious harm, or other evidence of then-present
dangerousness.
            10.   The victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or a private child placing agency and the
offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties.
            11.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties.
      (3)   R.C. § 2919.271 applies in relation to a defendant charged with a
violation of this section.
      (4)   For the purpose of division (a) of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         A.   COMPUTER, COMPUTER NETWORK, COMPUTER PROGRAM, COMPUTER SYSTEM and
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         B.   EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. The singular of EMERGENCY FACILITY
PERSONNEL as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
         C.   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. The singular of EMERGENCY
MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
         D.   FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
            1.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
person against whom the act prohibited in division (a)(1) of this section is
committed:
               a.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse
of the person;
               b.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the person, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the person;
               c.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse,
or former spouse of the person, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
person.
            2.   The natural parent of any child of whom the person against
whom the act prohibited in division (a)(1) of this section is committed is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
         E.   MENTAL DISTRESS. Any of the following:
            1.   Any mental illness or condition that involves some temporary
substantial incapacity; or
            2.   Any mental illness or condition that would normally require
psychiatric treatment, psychological treatment or other mental health services,
whether or not any person requested or received psychiatric treatment,
psychological treatment, or other mental health services.
         F.   ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
         G.   PATTERN OF CONDUCT. Two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, or two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, directed at one or more persons employed by or
belonging to the same corporation, association, or other organization. Actions
or incidents that prevent, obstruct or delay the performance by a public
official, firefighter, rescuer, emergency medical services person or emergency
facility person of any authorized act within the public official’s,
firefighter’s, rescuer’s, emergency medical services person’s or emergency
facility person’s official capacity, or the posting of messages, use of
intentionally written or verbal graphic gestures, or receipt of information or
data through the use of any form of written communication or an electronic
method of remotely transferring information, including, but not limited to, a
computer, computer network, computer program, computer system or
telecommunications device, may constitute a PATTERN OF CONDUCT.
         H.   PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has
lived with the person against whom the act prohibited in division (a)(1) of
this section is committed in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise
is cohabiting with that person, or who otherwise has cohabited with the person
within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in
question.
         I.   POST A MESSAGE. Transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating or otherwise communicating, or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate or otherwise communicate, any message or
information, whether truthful or  untruthful, about an individual, and whether
done under one’s own name, under the name of another or while impersonating
another.
         J.   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
         K.   SEXUAL MOTIVATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
         L.   THIRD PERSON. In relation to conduct as described in division (a)
(1)B. of this section, an individual who is neither the offender nor the victim
of the conduct.
      (5)   The prosecution does not need to prove in a prosecution under
division (a) of this section that a person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment or other mental health services in order to
show that the person was caused mental distress as described in division (a)
(4)E.2. of this section.
      (6)   A.   Division (a) of this section does not apply to a person solely
because the person provided access or connection to or from an electronic
method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control,
including having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access
or connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that it believes is or will
be sent in violation of division (a) of this section.
         B.   Division (a)(6)A. of this section does not create an affirmative
duty for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic
method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to
block the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that
it believes is or will be sent in violation of division (a) of this section
except as otherwise provided by law.
         C.   Division (a)(6)A. of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of division (a) of this section or who
knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
(R.C. § 2903.211)
   (b)   Protection order. Consult R.C. § 2903.213 for current provisions
regarding protection orders, consent agreements, anti-stalking protection
orders and orders issued by a court of another state.
   (c)   Violating a protection order, consent agreement, anti-stalking
protection order or order issued by a court of another state.
      (1)   No person shall recklessly violate the terms of any of the
following:
         A.   A protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant
to R.C. § 2919.26 or § 3113.31;
         B.   A protection order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213 or
2903.214;
         C.   A protection order issued by a court of another state.
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of
violating a protection order.
         B.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(2)C. or (c)(2)D. of
this section, violating a protection order is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         C.   Violating a protection order is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the offender previously has been convicted of, pleaded
guilty to, or been adjudicated a delinquent child for any of the following:
            1.   A violation of a protection order issued or consent agreement
approved pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213, 2903.214, 2919.26, or 3113.31,
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance;
            2.   Two or more violations of R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22,
or 2911.211, or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
or any combination of those offenses, that involved the same person who is the
subject of the protection order or consent agreement;
            3.   One or more violations of this section, or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance.
         D.   If the offender violates a protection order or consent agreement
while committing a felony offense, violating a protection order is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         E.   If the protection order violated by the offender was an order
issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34 or 2903.214 that required electronic
monitoring of the offender pursuant to that section, the court may require in
addition to any other sentence imposed upon the offender that the offender be
electronically monitored for a period not exceeding five years by a law
enforcement agency designated by the court. If the court requires under this
division that the offender be electronically monitored, unless the court
determines that the offender is indigent, the court shall order that the
offender pay the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device
and the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device.
      (3)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (c)(1)C. of
this section that the protection order issued by a court of another state does
not comply with the requirements specified in 18 U.S.C. 2265(b) for a
protection order that must be accorded full faith a credit by a court of this
state or that it is not entitled to full faith and credit under 18 U.S.C. 2265
(c).
      (4)   In a prosecution for a violation of this section, it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the protection order or consent
agreement was served on the defendant if the prosecution proves that the
defendant was shown the protection order or consent agreement or a copy of
either or a judge, magistrate, or law enforcement officer informed the
defendant that a protection order or consent agreement had been issued, and
proves that the defendant recklessly violated the terms of the order or
agreement.
      (5)    As used in this section, PROTECTION ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF
ANOTHER STATE means an injunction or another order issued by a criminal court
of another state for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or
harassment against, contact or communication with, or physical proximity to
another person including a temporary order, and means an injunction or order of
that nature issued by a civil court of another state, including a temporary
order and a final order issued in an independent action or as a pendente lite
order in a proceeding for other relief, if the court issued it in response to a
complaint, petition or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking
protection. The term does not include an order for support or for custody of a
child issued pursuant to the divorce and child custody laws of another state,
except to the extent that the order for support or for custody of a child is
entitled to full faith and credit under the laws of the United States.
(R.C. § 2919.27)
§ 537.06 MENACING.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of the
offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or other
organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly place or attempt to place another in
reasonable fear of physical harm or death by displaying a deadly weapon,
regardless of whether the deadly weapon displayed is operable or inoperable, if
either of the following applies:
         A.   The other person is an emergency service responder, the person
knows or reasonably should know that the other person is an emergency service
responder, and it is the person’s specific purpose to engage in the specified
conduct against an emergency service responder.
         B.   The other person is a family or household member or co-worker of
an emergency service responder, the person knows or reasonably should know that
the other person is a family or household member or co-worker of an emergency
service responder, and it is the person’s specific purpose to engage in the
specified conduct against a family or household member or co- worker of an
emergency service responder.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of menacing. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, menacing is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a public
children services agency or a private child placing agency and the offense
relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties or if the victim of the offense is an
emergency service responder in the performance of the responder’s official
duties, menacing is one of the following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(2) of this section, a
misdemeanor of the first degree;
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or private child placing agency
or an emergency service responder, and that prior offense related to the
officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official
responsibilities or duties or to the responder’s performance of the responder’s
official duties, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (c)   A prosecution for a violation of this section does not preclude a
prosecution of a violation of any other section of the Ohio Revised Code. One
or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of behavior that can be prosecuted
under this section or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code may be
prosecuted under this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code, or
both sections. However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of R.C. § 2903.13, or any substantially similar municipal ordinance,
based on the same conduct involving the same victim that was the basis of the
violation of this section, the offenses are allied offenses of similar import
under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (d)   As used in this section:
      (1)   CO-WORKER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 2903.13.
      (2)   EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2903.13.
      (3)   FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2903.13.
      (4)   ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.22)
§ 537.07 ENDANGERING CHILDREN.
   (a)   No person, who is the parent, guardian, custodian, person having
custody or control, or person in loco parentis of a child under 18 years of age
or a child with a mental or physical disability under 21 years of age, shall
create a substantial risk to the health or safety of the child by violating a
duty of care, protection, or support. It is not a violation of a duty of care,
protection, or support under this division when the parent, guardian,
custodian, or person having custody or control of a child treats the physical
or mental illness or disability of the child by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious body.
   (b)   No person shall do any of the following to a child under 18 years of
age or a child with a mental or physical disability under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Abuse the child.
      (2)   Torture or cruelly abuse the child.
      (3)   Administer corporal punishment or other physical disciplinary
measure, or physically restrain the child in a cruel manner or for a prolonged
period, which punishment, discipline or restraint is excessive under the
circumstances and creates a substantial risk of serious physical harm to the
child.
      (4)   Repeatedly administer unwarranted disciplinary measures to a child
when there is a substantial risk that this conduct, if continued, will
seriously impair or retard the child’s mental health or development.
      (5)   Entice, coerce, permit, encourage, compel, hire, employ, use or
allow the child to act, model or in any other way participate in, or be
photographed for, the production, presentation, dissemination or advertisement
of any material or performance that the offender knows or reasonably should
know is obscene, is sexually oriented matter or is nudity-oriented matter.
      (6)   Allow the child to be on the same parcel of real property and
within 100 feet of, or, in the case of more than one housing unit on the same
parcel of real property, in the same housing unit and within 100 feet of, any
act in violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or § 2925.041 when the person knows that the
act is occurring, whether or not any person is prosecuted for or convicted of
the violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or § 2925.041 that is the basis of the
violation of this division.
   (c)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle, as defined by R.C. § 4511.01,
within the municipality and in violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, when one or more children under
18 years of age are in the vehicle. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
a person may be convicted at the same trial or proceeding of a violation of
this division and a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the
violation of this division. For purposes of R.C. §§ 4511.191 to 4511.197 and
all related provisions of law, a person arrested for a violation of this
division shall be considered to be under arrest for operating a vehicle while
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, a combination of them or for
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      (2)   For the purpose of division (c)(1) of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
         A.   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
         B.   VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (d)   (1)   Division (b)(5) of this section does not apply to any material
or performance that is produced, presented or disseminated for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, religious, governmental, judicial or other
proper purpose, by or to a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist,
teacher, person pursing bona fide studies for research, librarian, member of
the clergy, prosecutor, judge or other person having a proper interest in the
material or performance.
      (2)   Mistake of age is not a defense to a charge under division (b)(5)
of this section.
      (3)   In a prosecution under division (b)(5) of this section, the trier
of fact may infer that an actor, model or participant in the material or
performance involved is a juvenile if the material or performance, through its
title, text, visual representation or otherwise, represents or depicts the
actor, model or participant as a juvenile.
      (4)   For the purpose of this division and division (b)(5) of this
section, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
         A.   MATERIAL, PERFORMANCE, OBSCENE AND SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         B.   NUDITY-ORIENTED MATTER. Any material or performance that shows a
minor in a state of nudity and that, taken as a whole by the average person
applying contemporary community standards, appeals to the prurient interest.
         C.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATTER. Any material or performance that shows
a minor participating or engaging in sexual activity, masturbation or
bestiality.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of endangering children.
      (1)   If the offender violates division (a) or (b)(1) of this section,
endangering children is one of the following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (e)(1)B., (e)(1)C. or
(e)(1)D., a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or
of any offense involving neglect, abandonment or contributing to the
delinquency of or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in
division (e)(1)C. or (e)(1)D. of this section, endangering children is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         C.   If the violation is a violation of division (a) of this section
and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         D.   If the violation is a violation of division (b)(1) of this
section and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender violates division (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(5) or
(b)(6) of this section, endangering children is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the offender violates division (c) of this section, the offender
shall be punished as follows:
         A.   Except as provided in (e)(3)B. or (e)(3)C., endangering children
in violation of division (c) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         B.   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child or
if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this section or
a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any offense
involving neglect, abandonment or contributing to the delinquency of or
physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in division (e)(3)C. of
this section, endangering children in violation of division (c) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         C.   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
and if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, R.C. § 2903.06, § 2903.08, § 2919.22(C) or former R.C. § 2903.07 as it
existed prior to March 23, 2000, or R.C. § 2903.04, in a case in which the
offender was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that
section, endangering children in violation of division (c) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         D.   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine or other sentence,
penalty or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to divisions (e)
(3)A., (e)(3)B. or (e)(3)C. of this section or pursuant to any other provision
of law and in addition to any suspension of the offender’s driver’s license or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under
R.C. Chapter 4506, Chapter 4509, Chapter 4510 or Chapter 4511, or any other
provision of law, the court also may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(7).
         E.   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other sentence,
penalty or sanction imposed upon the offender pursuant to division (e)(3)A.,
(e)(3)B., (e)(3)C. or (e)(3)D. of this section or pursuant to any other
provision of law for the violation of division (c) of this section, if as a
part of the same trial or proceeding the offender also is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a separate charge charging the violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (c) of this section, the offender also
shall be sentenced in accordance with R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, for that violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (f)   (1)   If a person violates division (c) of this section and if, at the
time of the violation, there were two or more children under 18 years of age in
the motor vehicle involved in the violation, the offender may be convicted of a
violation of division (c) of this section for each of the children, but the
court may sentence the offender for only one of the violations.
      (2)   A.   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (c) of this section but the person is not also convicted of and does
not also plead guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge
of the violation of division (c) of this section, both the following apply:
            1.   For purposes of the provisions of R.C. § 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that set forth the penalties and
sanctions for a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the violation of
division (c) of this section shall not constitute a violation of R.C. § 4511.19
(A), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   For purposes of the provisions of law that refers to a
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and that is not described in
division (f)(2)A.1. of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the
violation of division (c) of this section shall constitute a conviction or plea
of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
         B.   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (c) of this section and the person also is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge of the
violation of division (c) of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty
to the violation of division (c) of this section shall not constitute, for the
purposes of any provision of law that refers to a conviction of or a plea of
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, a conviction of or a plea of guilty to a violation of R.C.
§ 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 2919.22(A) - (E), (H))
Statutory reference:
   Community service, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(F)
   License suspension, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(G)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
§ 537.08 UNLAWFUL RESTRAINT.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly restrain
another of the other person’s liberty.
   (b)   No person, without privilege to do so and with a sexual motivation,
shall knowingly restrain another of the other person’s liberty.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful restraint, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   As used in this section, SEXUAL MOTIVATION has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2971.01.
(R.C. § 2905.03)
§ 537.09 COERCION.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to coerce another into taking or refraining
from action concerning which the other person has a legal freedom of choice,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Threaten to commit any offense.
      (2)   Utter or threaten any slander against any person.
      (3)   Expose or threaten to expose any matter tending to subject any
person to hatred, contempt or ridicule, or to damage any person’s personal or
business repute, or to impair any person’s credit.
      (4)   Institute or threaten criminal proceedings against any person.
      (5)   Take or withhold, or threaten to take or withhold official action,
or cause or threaten to cause official action to be taken or withheld.
   (b)   Divisions (a)(4) and (a)(5) of this section shall not be construed to
prohibit a prosecutor or court from doing any of the following in good faith
and in the interests of justice:
      (1)   Offering or agreeing to grant, or granting immunity from
prosecution pursuant to R.C. § 2945.44.
      (2)   In return for a plea of guilty to one or more offenses charged or
to one or more other or lesser offenses, or in return for the testimony of the
accused in a case to which the accused is not a party, offering or agreeing to
dismiss, or dismissing one or more charges pending against an accused, or
offering or agreeing to impose, or imposing a certain sentence or modification
of sentence.
      (3)   Imposing a community control sanction on certain conditions,
including without limitation requiring the offender to make restitution or
redress to the victim of the offense.
   (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (a)(3), (a)(4)
or (a)(5) of this section that the actor’s conduct was a reasonable response to
the circumstances which occasioned it, and that the actor’s purpose was limited
to any of the following:
      (1)   Compelling another to refrain from misconduct or to desist from
further misconduct.
      (2)   Preventing or redressing a wrong or injustice.
      (3)   Preventing another from taking action for which the actor
reasonably believed the other person to be disqualified.
      (4)   Compelling another to take action which the actor reasonably
believed the other person to be under a duty to take.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of coercion, a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (e)   As used in this section:
      (1)   COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      (2)   THREAT includes a direct threat and a threat by innuendo.
(R.C. § 2905.12)
§ 537.10 TELECOMMUNICATION HARASSMENT.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit a telecommunication to be made from a
telecommunications device under the person’s control, to another, if the caller
does any of the following:
      (1)   Makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass, intimidate, or
abuse any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates R.C. § 2903.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient’s family or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near or
in, has the responsibility of protecting, or insures the property that will be
destroyed or damaged;
      (5)   Knowingly makes the telecommunication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient or another
person at those premises previously has told the caller not to make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any persons at those premises;
      (6)   Knowingly makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal to
the recipient of the telecommunication that is threatening, intimidating,
menacing, coercive, or obscene with the intent to abuse, threaten, or harass
the recipient;
      (7)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly interrupts the
telecommunication service of any person;
      (8)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly transmits to any
person, regardless of whether the telecommunication is heard in its entirety,
any file, document, or other communication that prevents that person from using
the person’s telephone service or electronic communication device;
      (9)   Knowingly makes any false statement concerning the death, injury,
illness, disfigurement, reputation, indecent conduct, or criminal conduct of
the recipient of the telecommunication or family or household member of the
recipient with purpose to abuse, threaten, intimidate, or harass the recipient;
      (10)   Knowingly incites another person through a telecommunication or
other means to harass or participate in the harassment of a person;
      (11)   Knowingly alarms the recipient by making a telecommunication
without a lawful purpose at an hour or hours known to be inconvenient to the
recipient and in an offensive or repetitive manner.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication or
permit a
         telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under
the person’s control, with purpose to abuse, threaten or harass another person.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly post a text or audio statement or an
image on an internet web site or web page for the purpose of abusing,
threatening, or harassing another person.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of telecommunications
harassment.
      (2)   A violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(5), (a)(6), (a)
(7), (a)(8), (a)(9), (a)(10), or (a)(11) or (b) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony on each
subsequent offense, which shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(3), a violation
of division (a)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense and a felony on each subsequent offense, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of division (a)(4) of this section
results in economic harm of $1,000 or more, telecommunications harassment is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (d)   No cause of action may be assessed in any court of this municipality
against any provider of a telecommunications service, interactive computer
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or against any
officer, employee or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, for any
injury, death or loss to person or property that allegedly arises out of the
provider’s, officer’s, employee’s or agent’s provision of information,
facilities or assistance in accordance with the terms of a court order that is
issued in relation to the investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation
of this section. A provider of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or an
officer, employee or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, is
immune from any civil or criminal liability for injury, death or loss to person
or property that allegedly arises out of the provider’s, officer’s, employee’s
or agent’s provision of information, facilities or assistance in accordance
with the terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the investigation
or prosecution of an alleged violation of this section.
   (e)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that the person believes
is, or will be sent, in violation of this section.
      (2)   Division (e)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative duty
for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method
of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block
the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it
believes is, or will be sent, in violation of this section except as otherwise
provided by law.
      (3)   Division (e)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (4)   A provider or user of an interactive computer service, as defined
in 47 U.S.C. § 230, shall neither be treated as the publisher or speaker of any
information provided by another information content provider, as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 230, nor held civilly or criminally liable for the creation or
development of information provided by another information content provider, as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230. Nothing in this division shall be construed to
protect a person from liability to the extent that the person developed or
created any content in violation of this section.
   (f)   Divisions (a)(5) to (a)(11) and (b)(2) of this section do not apply to
a person who, while employed or contracted by a newspaper, magazine, press
association, news agency, news wire service, cable channel or cable operator,
or radio or television station, is gathering, processing, transmitting,
compiling, editing, or disseminating information for the general public within
the scope of the person’s employment in that capacity or the person’s
contractual authority in that capacity.
   (g)   For the purpose of divisions (a) through (d) of this section, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      (1)   CABLE OPERATOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
      (2)   CALLER. The person described in division (a) of this section who
makes or causes to be made a telecommunication or who permits a
telecommunication to be made from a  telecommunications device under that
person’s control.
      (3)   ECONOMIC HARM. All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary
harm suffered by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. The term
includes but is not limited to all of the following:
         A.   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of the
criminal conduct;
         B.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         C.   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is shut
down as a result of the criminal conduct;
         D.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
      (4)   FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         A.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division
(a)(9) of this section is committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the recipient;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the recipient, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the recipient;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the recipient, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
recipient.
         B.   The natural parent of any child of whom the recipient of the
telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division (a)(9) of this
section is committed is the other natural parent or is the putative other
natural parent.
      (5)   PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has
lived with the recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act
prohibited in division (a)(9) of this section is committed in a common law
marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with the recipient, or who
otherwise has cohabited with the recipient within five years prior to the date
of the alleged commission of the act in question.
      (6)   SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
      (7)   TELECOMMUNICATION and TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (h)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication to a debtor that is in compliance with the “Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act”, 15 U.S.C. § 1692, as amended, or the “Telephone
Consumer Protection Act”, 47 U.S.C. § 227, as amended.
(R.C. § 2917.21)
§ 537.11 UNLAWFUL COLLECTION OF BODILY SUBSTANCES.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly collect any blood, urine, tissue, or other
bodily substance of another person without privilege or consent to do so.
   (b)   (1)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         A.   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a law
enforcement officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice
of a law enforcement officer, for purposes of a chemical test or tests of the
substance under R.C. § 1547.111(A)(1) or R.C. § 4511.191(A)(2) to determine the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the bodily substance;
         B.   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a peace
officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice of a peace
officer, for purposes of a test or tests of the substance as provided in R.C. §
4506.17(A) to determine the person’s alcohol concentration or the presence of
any controlled substance or metabolite of a controlled substance.
      (2)   Division (b)(1) of this section shall not be construed as implying
that the persons identified in divisions (b)(1)A. and B. of this section do not
have privilege to collect the bodily substance of another person as described
in those divisions or as limiting the definition of “privilege” set forth in
R.C. § 2901.01.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of unlawful
collection of a bodily substance. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, unlawful collection of a bodily substance is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (a) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, unlawful collection of a bodily
substance is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.15)
§ 537.12 MISUSE OF 9-1-1 SYSTEM.
   (a)   As used in this section, “9-1-1 system” means a system through which
individuals can request emergency service using the access number 9-1-1.
(R.C. § 128.01(A))
   (b)   No person shall knowingly use the telephone number of a 9-1-1 system
established under R.C. Chapter 128 to report an emergency if the person knows
that no emergency exists.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly use a 9-1-1 system for a purpose other than
obtaining emergency service.
   (d)   No person shall disclose or use any information concerning telephone
numbers, addresses, or names obtained from the database that serves the public
safety answering point of a 9-1-1 system established under R.C. Chapter 128,
except for any of the following purposes or under any of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   For the purpose of the 9-1-1 system;
      (2)   For the purpose of responding to an emergency call to an emergency
service provider;
      (3)   In the circumstance of the inadvertent disclosure of such
information due solely to technology of the wireless telephone network portion
of the 9-1-1 system not allowing access to the database to be restricted to 9-
1-1 specific answering lines at a public safety answering point;
      (4)   In the circumstance of access to a database being given by a
telephone company that is a wireless service provider to a public utility or
municipal utility in handling customer calls in times of public emergency or
service outages. The charge, terms and conditions for the disclosure or use of
the information for the purpose of such access to a database shall be subject
to the jurisdiction of the Steering Committee; or
      (5)   In the circumstance of access to a database given by a telephone
company that is a wireline service provider to a state and local government in
warning of a public emergency, as determined by the Steering Committee. The
charge, terms and conditions for the disclosure or use of that information for
the purpose of access to a database is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Steering Committee.
(R.C. § 128.96(F) - (H))
   (e)   (1)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (c) or (d) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 128.99(A), (B))
§ 537.13 PLACING HARMFUL SUBSTANCE OR OBJECTS IN FOOD OR CONFECTION.
   (a)   No person shall do either of the following, knowing or having
reasonable cause to believe that any person may suffer physical harm or be
seriously inconvenienced or annoyed thereby:
      (1)   Place a pin, razor blade, glass, laxative, drug of abuse or other
harmful or hazardous object or substance in any food or confection.
      (2)   Furnish to any person any food or confection which has been
adulterated in violation of division (a)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 3716.11)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3716.99(C))
§ 537.14 DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
   (a)   Prohibited conduct.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm
to a family or household member.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to a family
or household member.
      (3)   No person, by threat of force, shall knowingly cause a family or
household member to believe that the offender will cause imminent physical harm
to the family or household member.
      (4)   A.   Whoever violates this section is guilty of domestic violence,
and the court shall sentence the offender as provided in divisions (a)(4)B. to
(a)(4)E. of this section.
         B.   Except as otherwise provided in division (a)(4)C., (a)(4)D. or
(a)(4)E. of this section, a violation of division (a)(3) is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree and a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
         C.   Except as otherwise provided in division (a)(4)D. of this
section, if the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of
domestic violence, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or
law of this or any other state or the United States that is substantially
equivalent to domestic violence, a violation of R.C. § 2903.14, § 2909.06, §
2909.07, § 2911.12, § 2911.211 or § 2919.22 if the victim of the violation was
a family or household member at the time of the violation, a violation of an
existing or former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the
United States that is substantially equivalent to any of those sections if the
victim of the violation was a family or household member at the time of the
commission of the violation, or any offense of violence if the victim of the
offense was a family or household member at the time of the commission of the
offense, a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law, and a violation of division (a)(3) is a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
         D.   If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been
convicted of two or more offenses of domestic violence or two or more
violations or offenses of the type described in division (a)(4)C. of this
section involving a person who was a family or household member at the time of
the violations or offenses, a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a
violation of division (a)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         E.   Except as otherwise provided in division (a)(4)C. or (a)(4)D. of
this section, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was
pregnant at the time of the violation, a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2)
of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a
violation of division (a)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
      (5)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no court or
unit of state or local government shall charge any fee, cost, deposit or money
in connection with the filing of charges against a person alleging that the
person violated this section or a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent
to this section or in connection with the prosecution of any charges so filed.
      (6)   As used in this section:
         A.   FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Any of the following:
            1.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
offender:
               a.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse as defined below, or
a former spouse of the offender;
               b.   A parent, a foster parent or a child of the offender, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender; or
               c.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse,
or former spouse of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
offender.
            2.   The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
         B.   PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. A person who is living or has lived
with the offender in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is
cohabiting with the offender, or who otherwise has cohabited with the offender
within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in
question.
(R.C. § 2919.25)
   (b)   Temporary protection order.  Consult R.C. § 2919.26 for current
provisions regarding protection orders.
   (c)   Violating a protection order, consent agreement, anti-stalking
protection order or order issued by a court of another state. See §
537.15 for current provisions.
§ 537.15 TEMPORARY PROTECTION ORDER (RECODIFIED).
   Editor’s note:
   Sections 537.051 and 537.15 were combined as part of the 2009 updating and
revision of these codified ordinances. For provisions regarding temporary
protection order, please see §
537.051.
§ 537.16 ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTES, OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS, OR
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS; TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (a)   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         A.   AGE VERIFICATION. A service provided by an independent third
party (other than a manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or
retailer of cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
or papers used to roll cigarettes) that compares information available from a
commercially available database, or aggregate of databases, that regularly are
used by government and businesses for the purpose of age and identity
verification to personal information provided during an internet sale or other
remote method of sale to establish that the purchaser is 21 years of age or
older.
         B.   ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT.
            1.   Subject to division 2. of this definition, an electronic
smoking device, vapor product, or any other product or device that consists of
or contains nicotine that can be ingested into the body by any means,
including, but not limited to, chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, or
inhaling.
            2.   The phrase does not include any of the following:
               a.   Any cigarette or other tobacco product;
               b.   Any product that is a “drug” as that term is defined in 21
U.S.C. § 321(g)(1);
               c.   Any product that is a “device” as that term is defined in
21 U.S.C. § 321(h);
               d.   Any product that is a “combination product” as described in
21 U.S.C. § 353(g).
         C.   CIGARETTE. Includes clove cigarettes and hand-rolled cigarettes.
         D.   DISTRIBUTE. Means to furnish, give, or provide cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to the ultimate consumer of the cigarettes, other tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes.
         E.   ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. Means any device that can be used to
deliver aerosolized or vaporized nicotine or any other substance to the person
inhaling from the device including an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic hookah, vaping pen, or electronic pipe. The phrase includes any
component, part, or accessory of such a device, whether or not sold separately,
and includes any substance intended to be aerosolized or vaporized during the
use of the device. The phrase  does not include any product that is a drug,
device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described in 21
U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         F.   PROOF OF AGE. Means a driver’s license, a commercial driver’s
license, a military identification card, a passport, or an identification card
issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows that a person is 21 years of
age or older.
         G.   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Means any product that is made or derived from
tobacco or that contains any form of nicotine, if it is intended for human
consumption or is likely to be consumed, whether smoked, heated, chewed,
absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, or ingested by any other means, including, but
not limited to, a cigarette, an electronic smoking device, a cigar, pipe
tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff, or snus. The phrase also means any component
or accessory used in the consumption of a tobacco product, such as filters,
rolling papers, pipes, blunt or hemp wraps, and liquids used in electronic
smoking devices, whether or not they contain nicotine. The phrase does not
include any product that is a drug, device, or combination product, as those
terms are defined or described in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         H.   VAPOR PRODUCT. Means a product, other than a cigarette or other
tobacco product as defined in R.C. Chapter 5743, that contains or is made or
derived from nicotine and that is intended and marketed for human  consumption,
including by smoking, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing. The phrase includes any
component, part, or additive that is intended for use in an electronic smoking
device, a mechanical heating element, battery, or electronic circuit and is
used to deliver the product. The phrase does not include any product that is a
drug, device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described
in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g). The phrase includes any product containing
nicotine, regardless of concentration.
         I.   VENDING MACHINE. Has the same meaning as “coin machine” in R.C. §
2913.01.
      (2)   No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes, no agent, employee, or representative of a
manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes, and no other person shall do any of the following:
         A.   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes:
            1.   To any person under 21 years of age; or
            2.   Without first verifying proof of age.
         B.   Give away, sell, or distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes in
any place that does not have posted in a conspicuous place a legibly printed
sign in letters at least one-half inch high stating that giving, selling, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age
is prohibited by law;
         C.   Knowingly furnish any false information regarding the name, age,
or other identification of any person under 21 years of age with purpose to
obtain cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes for that person;
         D.   Manufacture, sell, or distribute in this state any pack or other
container of cigarettes containing fewer than 20 cigarettes or any package of
roll-your-own tobacco containing less than six-tenths of one ounce of tobacco;
         E.   Sell cigarettes or alternative nicotine products in a smaller
quantity than that placed in the pack or other container by the manufacturer;
         F.   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute alternative nicotine
products, papers used to roll cigarettes, or tobacco products other than
cigarettes over the internet or through another remote method without age
verification;
         G.   Allow an employee under 18 years of age to sell any tobacco
product;
         H.   Give away or otherwise distribute free samples of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or coupons redeemable
for cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alterative tobacco products.
      (3)   No person shall sell or offer to sell cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products by or from a vending machine, except
in the following locations:
         A.   An area within a factory, business, office, or other place not
open to the general public;
         B.   An area to which persons under 21 years of age are not generally
permitted access;
         C.   Any other place not identified in division (a)(3)A. or (a)(3)B.
of this section, upon all of the following conditions:
            1.   The vending machine is located within the immediate vicinity,
plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place, or an
employee of that person, so that all cigarettes, other tobacco product, and
alternative nicotine product purchases from the vending machine will be readily
observed by the person who owns or operates the place or an employee of that
person. For the purpose of this section, a vending machine located in any
unmonitored area, including an unmonitored coatroom, restroom, hallway, or
outer waiting area, shall not be considered located within the immediate
vicinity, plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place,
or an employee of that person.
            2.   The vending machine is inaccessible to the public when the
place is closed.
            3.   A clearly visible notice is posted in the area where the
vending machine is located that states the following in letters that are
legibly printed and at least one-half inch high: “It is illegal for any person
under the age of 21 to purchase tobacco or alternative nicotine products.”
      (4)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under division
(a)(2)A. of this section:
         A.   The person under 21 years of age was accompanied by a parent,
spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian of the person under
21 years of age.
         B.   The person who gave, sold, or distributed cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age under division (a)(2)A. of this
section is a parent, spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian
of the person under 21 years of age.
      (5)   A.   It is not a violation of division (a)(2)A. or (a)(2)B. of this
section for a person to give or otherwise distribute to a person under 21 years
of age cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes while the person under 21 years of age is
participating in a research protocol if all of the following apply:
            1.   The parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the person under
21 years of age has consented in writing to the person under 21 years of age
participating in the research protocol.
            2.   An institutional human subjects protection review board, or an
equivalent entity, has approved the research protocol.
            3.   The person under 21 years of age is participating in the
research protocol at the facility or location specified in the research
protocol.
         B.   It is not a violation of division (a)(2)A. or (a)(2)B. of this
section for an employer to permit an employee 18, 19, or 20 years of age to
sell a tobacco product.
      (6)   A.   No delivery service shall accept from, transport or deliver
to, or allow pick-up by, a person under 21 years of age with respect to any of
the following:
            1.   Alternative nicotine products;
            2.   Papers used to roll cigarettes;
            3.   Tobacco products other than cigarettes.
         B.   A delivery service shall require proof of age as a condition of
accepting, transporting, delivering, or allowing pickup of the items described
in divisions (a)(6)A.1. to 3. of this section.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (a)(2)A., (a)(2)B., (a)(2)D., (a)(2)E.,
(a)(2)F., (a)(2)G., (a)(2)H., (a)(3) or (a)(6) of this section is guilty of
illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to illegal distribution of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (a)(2)C. of this section is guilty of
permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of division (a)(2)C. of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (9)   Any cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes that are given, sold, or otherwise
distributed to a person under 21 years of age in violation of this section and
that are used, possessed, purchased, or received by a person under 21 years of
age in violation of R.C. § 2151.87 are subject to seizure and forfeiture as
contraband under R.C. Chapter 2981.
(R.C. § 2927.02)
   (b)   Transaction scan.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division and division (c) of this section,
the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
         A.   CARD HOLDER. Any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products from a seller, agent or employee.
         B.   IDENTIFICATION CARD. An identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 to 4507.52.
         C.   SELLER. A seller of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products and includes any person whose gift of or other
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products is subject to the prohibitions of division (a) of this section.
         D.   TRANSACTION SCAN. The process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks, by means of a transaction scan device, the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card
that is presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
         E.   TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
      (2)   A.   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away or otherwise distributing
to the card holder cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products.
         B.   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (b)(2)A. of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away or otherwise distribute any cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products to the card holder.
         C.   Division (b)(2)A. of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device, as a condition for selling, giving away or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products to the person presenting the document.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (b) and division (c) of this section.
      (4)   A.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
            1.   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder; or
            2.   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
         B.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (b)(4)A. of this section, except for
purposes of division (c) of this section.
         C.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (c)(2)A. of this section.
         D.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including, but not limited to, selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (c) of this section
or another section of these codified ordinances or the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (b) or division (c) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable local, state or federal laws or rules
governing the sale, giving away or other distribution of cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (b)(2)B. or (b)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal tobacco product, or alternative nicotine
product transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil
penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay
each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the
County Treasury.
(R.C. § 2927.021)
   (c)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (a) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of cigarettes, other tobacco products,
or alternative nicotine products is an element of the alleged violation, if the
seller, agent or employee raises and proves as an affirmative defense that all
of the following occurred:
         A.   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products presented a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or an identification card.
         B.   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that the
license or card was valid.
         C.   The cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products were sold, given away or otherwise distributed to the card holder in
reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and the completed
transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (c)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (a) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (a) of this
section. For purposes of division (c)(1)C. of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         A.   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away or otherwise distributes cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is 21 years of age or older;
         B.   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (c)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
Deputy Registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to
4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of that
issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2927.022)
   (d)   Shipment of tobacco products.
      (1)   As used in this division (D):
         A.   “Authorized recipient of tobacco products.” Means:
            1.   In the case of cigarettes, a person who is:
               a.    Licensed as a cigarette wholesale dealer under R.C. §
5743.15;
               b.    Licensed as a retail dealer as long as the person
purchases cigarettes with the appropriate tax stamp affixed;
               c.   An export warehouse proprietor as defined in Internal
Revenue Code § 5702;
               d.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
               e.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or
of this state acting in the person's official capacity;
               f.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state;
               g.   A person having a consent for consumer shipment issued by
the Ohio Tax Commissioner under R.C. § 5743.71.
            2.   In the case of electronic smoking devices or vapor products, a
person who is:
               a.    Licensed as a distributor of tobacco or vapor products
under R.C. § 5743.61;
               b.   A retail dealer of vapor products, as defined in R.C. §
5741.01(C)(3), that is not licensed as a vapor distributor, as long as the tax
levied by R.C. § 5743.51, 5743.62, or 5743.63, as applicable, has been paid;
               c.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
               d.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or
of this state acting in the person's official capacity;
               e.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state.
         B.   “Motor carrier.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01.
      (2)   The purpose of this section is to prevent the sale of cigarettes,
electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to minors and to ensure
compliance with the Master Settlement Agreement, as defined in R.C. § 1346.01.
      (3)   A.   No person shall cause to be shipped any cigarettes, electronic
smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in this municipality other
than an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
         B.   No motor carrier, or other person shall knowingly transport
cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in
this municipality that the carrier or other person reasonably believes is not
an authorized recipient of tobacco products. If cigarettes, electronic smoking
devices, and vapor products are transported to a home or residence, it shall be
presumed that the motor carrier, or other person knew that the person to whom
the cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products were delivered
was not an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
      (4)   No person engaged in the business of selling cigarettes, electronic
smoking devices, and vapor products who ships or causes to be shipped
cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in
this municipality in any container or wrapping other than the original
container or wrapping shall fail to plainly and visibly mark the exterior of
the container or wrapping in which the cigarettes, electronic smoking devices,
and vapor products are shipped with the words “cigarettes”, “electronic smoking
devices”, or “vapor products”, as applicable.
      (5)   A court shall impose a fine of up to $1,000 for each violation of
division (d)(3)A., (d)(3)B. or (d)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 2927.023)
   (e)   Furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products.
      (1)   No person who is 18 years of age or older but younger than 21 years
of age
         shall knowingly furnish false information concerning that person’s
name, age, or other identification for the purpose of obtaining tobacco
products.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (e)(1) of this section is guilty of
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, furnishing false information to obtain tobacco
products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (e)(1) of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. § 2927.024)
§ 537.17 CRIMINAL CHILD ENTICEMENT. (REPEALED)
Editor’s note: This section was formerly based on R.C. § 2905.05, Criminal
Child Enticement. The Ohio Supreme Court held that R.C. § 2905.05(A) was
unconstitutionally overbroad in violation of the First Amendment. See State v.
Romage, 138 Ohio St. 3d. 390 (2014).
§ 537.18 CONTRIBUTING TO UNRULINESS OR DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
      (2)   UNRULY CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.022.
   (b)   No person, including a parent, guardian, or other custodian of a
child, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to a child or a
ward of the juvenile court becoming an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (2)   Act in a way tending to cause a child or a ward of the juvenile
court to become an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (3)   Act in a way that contributes to an adjudication of the child as a
delinquent child based on the child’s violation of a court order adjudicating
the child an unruly child for being an habitual truant;
      (4)   If the person is the parent, guardian, or custodian of a child who
has the duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950 to register, register a new
residence address, and periodically verify a residence address, and, if
applicable, to send a notice of intent to reside, and if the child is not
emancipated, as defined in R.C. § 2919.121, fail to ensure that the child
complies with those duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of contributing to the
unruliness or delinquency of a child, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each
day of violation of this section is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.24)
§ 537.19 NONSUPPORT OF DEPENDENTS.
   (a)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide adequate support to:
      (1)   The person’s spouse, as required by law;
      (2)   The person’s child who is under age 18, or the persons’s child with
a mental or physical disability who is under age 21;
      (3)   The person’s aged or infirm parent or adoptive parent, who from
lack of ability and means is unable to provide adequately for the parent’s own
support.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide support as
established by a court order to, another person whom, by court order or decree,
the person:
         A.   Is legally obligated to support; or
         B.   Was legally obligated to support, and an amount for support:
            1.   Was due and owing prior to the date the person’s duty to pay
current support terminated; and
            2.   Remains unpaid.
      (2)   The period of limitation under R.C. § 2901.13 applicable to
division (b)(1)B. of this section shall begin to run on the date the person’s
duty to pay current support terminates.
   (c)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage or contribute to a
child or a ward of the juvenile court becoming a dependent child, as defined in
R.C. § 2151.04, or a neglected child, as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (d)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of failure to provide
adequate support under division (a) of this section or a charge of failure to
provide support established by a court order under division (b) of this section
that the accused was unable to provide adequate support or the established
support, but did provide the support that was within his or her ability and
means.
   (e)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (a)(3) of this
section that the parent abandoned the accused or failed to support the accused
as required by law, while the accused was under age 18, or had a mental or
physical disability and was under age 21.
   (f)   It is not a defense to a charge under division (b) of this section
that the person whom a court has ordered the accused to support is being
adequately supported by someone other than the accused.
   (g)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) or (b) of this section is guilty of nonsupport of dependents, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (a)(2) or (b) of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or if the
offender has failed to provide support under division (a)(2) or (b) of this
section for a total accumulated period of 26 weeks out of 104 consecutive
weeks, whether or not the 26 weeks were consecutive, then a violation of
division (a)(2) or (b) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a felony violation of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (a)(2) or
(b) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender is guilty of nonsupport of dependents by reason of
failing to provide support to his or her child as required by a child support
order issued on or after April 15, 1985, pursuant to R.C. § 2151.23, §
2151.231, § 2151.232, § 2151.33, § 3105.21, § 3109.05, § 3111.13, § 3113.04, §
3113.31, § 3115.401, or former R.C. § 3115.31, the court, in addition to any
other sentence imposed, shall assess all court costs arising out of the charge
against the person and require the person to pay any reasonable attorney’s fees
of any adverse party other than the state, as determined by the court, that
arose in relation to the charge.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of
contributing to the nonsupport of dependents, a misdemeanor of the first
degree. Each day of a violation of division (c) of this section is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.21)
§ 537.20 INTERFERENCE WITH CUSTODY.
   (a)   No person, knowing that he or she is without privilege to do so or
being reckless in that regard, shall entice, take, keep or harbor a person
identified in division (a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section from the
parent, guardian or custodian of the person identified in division (a)(1), (a)
(2) or (a)(3) of this section:
      (1)   A child under the age of 18, or a child with a mental or physical
disability under the age of 21;
      (2)   A person committed by law to an institution for delinquent, unruly,
neglected, abused or dependent children; and/or
      (3)   A person committed by law to an institution for persons with mental
illnesses or an institution for persons with intellectual disabilities.
   (b)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause or encourage a child or a
ward of the juvenile court who has been committed to the custody of any person,
department or public or private institution to leave the custody of that
person, department or institution without legal consent.
   (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of enticing or taking under
division (a)(1) of this section that the actor reasonably believed that his or
her conduct was necessary to preserve the child’s health or safety. It is an
affirmative defense to a charge of keeping or harboring under division (a) of
this section that the actor in good faith gave notice to law enforcement or
judicial authorities within a reasonable time after the child or committed
person came under his or her shelter, protection, or influence.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with custody.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, a violation of
division (a)(1) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the child who is
the subject of a violation of division (a)(1) is removed from the state or if
the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under this section or
a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of
division (a)(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. If the child who is the subject of a violation of division (a)(1)
suffers physical harm as a result of the violation, a violation of division (a)
(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. Each day of a violation of division (b) is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.23)
§ 537.21 SAFETY OF CROWDS ATTENDING LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCES.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   CONCERT. A musical performance of which the primary component is a
presentation by persons singing or playing musical instruments, that is
intended by its sponsors mainly, but not necessarily exclusively, for the
listening enjoyment of the audience, and that is held in a facility. A CONCERT
does not include any performance in which music is a part of the presentation
and the primary component of which is acting, dancing, a motion picture, a
demonstration of skills or talent other than singing or playing an instrument,
an athletic event, an exhibition or a speech.
      (2)   FACILITY. Any structure that has a roof or partial roof and that
has walls that wholly surround the area on all sides, including, but not
limited to, a stadium, hall, arena, armory, auditorium, ballroom, exhibition
hall, convention center or music hall.
      (3)   LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCE. Any live speech; any live musical
performance, including a concert; any live dramatic performance; any live
variety show; and any other live performance with respect to which the primary
intent of the audience can be construed to be viewing the performers. A LIVE
ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCE does not include any form of entertainment with
respect to which the person purchasing a ticket routinely participates in
amusements as well as views performers.
      (4)   PERSON. Includes, in addition to an individual or entity specified
in R.C. § 1.59(C), any governmental entity.
      (5)   RESTRICTED ENTERTAINMENT AREA. Any wholly or partially enclosed
area, whether indoors or outdoors, that has limited access through established
entrances or established turnstiles or similar devices.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or offer in return for a
donation, any ticket that is not numbered and that does not correspond to a
specific seat for admission to either of the following:
         A.   A live entertainment performance that is not exempted under
division (d) of this section, that is held in a restricted entertainment area,
and for which more than 8,000 tickets are offered to the public; or
         B.   A concert that is not exempted under division (d) of this section
and for which more than 3,000 tickets are offered to the public.
      (2)   No person shall advertise any live entertainment performance as
described in division (b)(1)A. of this section or any concert as described in
division (b)(1)B. of this section, unless the advertisement contains the words
“Reserved Seats Only.”
   (c)   Unless exempted by division (d)(1) of this section, no person who owns
or operates any restricted entertainment area shall fail to open, maintain and
properly staff at least the number of entrances designated under division (e)
of this section for a minimum of 90 minutes prior to the scheduled start of any
live entertainment performance that is held in the restricted entertainment
area and for which more than 3,000 tickets are sold, offered for sale or
offered in return for a donation.
   (d)   (1)   A live entertainment performance, other than a concert, is
exempted from the provisions of divisions (b) and (c) of this section if both
of the following apply:
         A.   The restricted entertainment area in which the performance is
held has at least eight entrances or, if both entrances and separate admission
turnstiles or similar devices are used, has at least eight turnstiles or
similar devices.
         B.   The eight entrances or, if applicable, the eight turnstiles or
similar devices, are opened, maintained and properly staffed at least one hour
prior to the scheduled start of the performance.
      (2)   A.   1.   The officer responsible for public safety in the
municipality may, upon application of the sponsor of a concert covered by
division (b) of this section, exempt the concert from the provisions of that
division if the officer finds that the health, safety and welfare of the
participants and spectators would not be substantially affected by failure to
comply with the provisions of that division. In determining whether to grant an
exemption, the officer shall consider the following factors:
               a.   The size and design of the facility in which the concert is
scheduled;
               b.   The size, age and anticipated conduct of the crowd expected
to attend the concert; and
               c.   The ability of the sponsor to manage and control the
expected crowd.
            2.   If the sponsor of any concert desires to obtain an exemption
under this division, the sponsor shall apply to the appropriate official on a
form prescribed by that official. The official shall issue an order that grants
or denies the exemption within five days after receipt of the application. The
sponsor may appeal any order that denies an exemption to the Court of Common
Pleas of the county in which the facility is located.
         B.   If an official grants an exemption under division (d)(2)A. of
this section, the official shall designate an on-duty law enforcement officer
to be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue
orders to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the participants and spectators.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (d)(2) of this section, in the case of a
concert held in a facility located on the campus of an educational institution
covered by R.C. § 3345.04, a state university law enforcement officer appointed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall do both of the following:
         A.   Exercise the authority to grant exemptions provided by division
(d)(2)A. of this section in lieu of an official designated in that division;
and
         B.   If the officer grants an exemption under division (d)(3)A. of
this section, designate an on-duty state university law enforcement officer to
be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue orders
to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the participants and spectators.
   (e)   (1)   Unless a live entertainment performance is exempted by division
(d)(1) of this section, the officer responsible for public safety within the
municipality shall designate, for purposes of division (c) of this section, the
minimum number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed at
each live entertainment performance so as to permit crowd control and reduce
congestion at the entrances. The designation shall be based on such factors as
the size and nature of the crowd expected to attend the live entertainment
performance, the length of time prior to the live entertainment performance
that crowds are expected to congregate at the entrances and the amount of
security provided at the restricted entertainment area.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (e)(1) of this section, a state university
law enforcement officer appointed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall
designate the number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed
in the case of a live entertainment performance that is held at a restricted
entertainment area located on the campus of an educational institution covered
by R.C. § 3345.04.
   (f)   No person shall enter into any contract for a live entertainment
performance that does not permit or require compliance with this section.
   (g)   (1)   This section does not apply to a live entertainment performance
held in a restricted entertainment area if one admission ticket entitles the
holder to view or participate in three or more different games, rides,
activities or live entertainment performances occurring simultaneously at
different sites within the restricted entertainment area and if the initial
admittance entrance to the restricted entertainment area, for which the ticket
is required, is separate from the entrance to any specific live entertainment
performance and an additional ticket is not required for admission to the
particular live entertainment performance.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a symphony orchestra performance, a
ballet performance, horse races, dances or fairs.
   (h)   This section does not prohibit the Council from imposing additional
requirements, not in conflict with the section, for the promotion or holding of
live entertainment performances.
   (i)   Whoever violates division (b), (c) or (f) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If any individual suffers physical harm to
his or her person as a result of a violation of this section, the sentencing
court shall consider this factor in favor of imposing a term of imprisonment
upon the offender.
(R.C. § 2917.40)
§ 537.22 HAZING.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   HAZING. Means doing any act or coercing another, including the
victim, to do any act of initiation into any student or other organization or
any act to continue or reinstate membership in or affiliation with any student
or other organization that causes or creates a substantial risk of causing
mental or physical harm to any person, including coercing another to consume
alcohol or a drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      (2)   ORGANIZATION. Includes a national or international organization
with which a fraternity or sorority is affiliated.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization.
   (c)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another
when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs of abuse
resulting in serious physical harm to the other person.
 
2022 S-10
§ 537.22   Mason - General Offenses Code   214
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs
of abuse resulting in serious physical harm to that person.
   (d)   Whoever violates divisions (b) or (c) of this section is guilty of
hazing. A violation of division (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the second degree. A violation of division (c)(1) or (c)(2) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.31)
   (e)   Reckless failure to immediately report knowledge of hazing.
      (1)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other public or private educational institution,
who is acting in an official and professional capacity shall recklessly fail to
immediately report the knowledge of hazing to a law enforcement agency in the
county in which the victim of hazing resides or in which the hazing is
occurring or has occurred.
      (2)   A violation of division (e)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree, except that the violation is a misdemeanor of the first
degree if the hazing causes serious physical harm.
(R.C. § 2903.311(B), (C))
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for hazing, see R.C. § 2307.44
§ 537.23 INTIMIDATION IN CONNECTION WITH HOUSING.
   (a)   No person, whether or not acting under color of law, shall by force or
threat of force willfully injure, intimidate or interfere with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate or interfere with any of the following:
      (1)   Any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status,
as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin, military status as defined in
that section, disability as defined in that section, or ancestry and because
that person is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying,
contracting or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or
occupation of any housing accommodations, or applying for or participating in
any service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting housing accommodations.
      (2)   Any person because that person is or has been doing, or in order to
intimidate that person or any other person or any class of persons from doing
either of the following:
         A.   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (a)(1) of this section; or
         B.   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
      (3)   Any person because that person is or has been, or in order to
discourage that person or any other person from, lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations or
facilities described in division (a)(1) of this section, or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate.
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2927.03)
§ 537.24 FAILING TO PROVIDE FOR A PERSON WITH A FUNCTIONAL IMPAIRMENT.
   (a)   No caretaker shall knowingly fail to provide a person with a
functional impairment under the caretaker’s care with any treatment, care,
goods, or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the
person with a functional impairment when this failure results in physical harm
or serious physical harm to the person with a functional impairment.
   (b)   No caretaker shall recklessly fail to provide a person with a
functional impairment under the caretaker’s care with any treatment, care,
goods, or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the
person with a functional impairment when this failure results in serious
physical harm to the person with a functional impairment.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
knowingly failing to provide for a person with a functional impairment, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person with a functional impairment
under the offender’s care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the
violation of this section, a violation of division (a) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
recklessly failing to provide for a person with a functional impairment, a
misdemeanor of the second degree. If the person with a functional impairment
under the offender’s care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the
violation of this section, a violation of division (b) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.16)
   (d)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   CARETAKER. A person who assumes the duty to provide for the care
and protection of a person with a functional impairment on a voluntary basis,
by contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a result of
a family relationship, or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The
term does not include a person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an
agent or employee of, a care facility, as defined in R.C. § 2903.33.
      (2)   PERSON WITH A FUNCTIONAL IMPAIRMENT. Any person who has a physical
or mental impairment that prevents the person from providing for the person’s
own care or protection or whose infirmities caused by aging prevent the person
from providing for the person’s own care or protection.
(R.C. § 2903.10)
§ 537.25 FAILURE TO PERFORM VIABILITY TESTING.
   (a)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation unless, prior to the performance or inducement of the abortion or the
attempt to perform or induce the abortion, the physician determines, in the
physician’s good faith medical judgment, that the unborn child is not viable,
and the physician makes that determination after performing a medical
examination of the pregnant woman and after performing or causing to be
performed those tests for assessing gestational age, weight, lung maturity, or
other tests that the physician, in that physician’s good faith medical
judgment, believes are necessary to determine whether an unborn child is
viable.
   (b)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation without first entering the determination made in division (a) of this
section and the associated findings of the medical examination and tests in the
medical record of the pregnant woman.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to perform
viability testing, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (d)   The State Medical Board shall suspend a physician’s license to
practice medicine in this state for a period of not less than six months if the
physician violates this section.
(R.C. § 2919.18)
§ 537.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.
CHAPTER 541: PROPERTY OFFENSES
Section
541.01   Determining property value in arson
541.02   Arson
541.03   Criminal damaging or endangering; vehicular vandalism
541.04   Criminal mischief
541.05   Criminal trespass
541.051   Aggravated trespass
541.06   Injuring vines, bushes, trees or crops
541.07   Desecration
541.08   Ethnic intimidation
541.09   Railroad vandalism; criminal trespass; interference with operation of
train; grade crossing device vandalism
541.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Damage to sidewalks, see §
521.04
   Physical harm to property defined, see §
501.01(n)
   Reimbursement for investigation or prosecution costs, see §
501.99(f)
   Vehicle trespass, see §
545.06
Statutory reference:
   Parents’ liability for destructive acts of their children, see R.C. §
3109.09
§ 541.01 DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE IN ARSON.
   (a)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or amount of physical harm involved in a violation of §
541.02:
      (1)   If the property is an heirloom, memento, collector’s item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record or other thing that is either
irreplaceable or is replaceable only on the expenditure of substantial time,
effort, or money, the value of the property or the amount of physical harm
involved is the amount that would compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   If the property is not covered under division (a)(1) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property can be restored
substantially to its former condition, the amount of physical harm involved is
the reasonable cost of restoring the property.
      (3)   If the property is not covered under division (a)(1) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property cannot be restored
substantially to its former condition, the value of the property, in the case
of personal property, is the cost of replacing the property with new property
of like kind and quality, and in the case of real property or real property
fixtures, is the difference in the fair market value of the property
immediately before and immediately after the offense.
   (b)   As used in this section, FAIR MARKET VALUE has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2913.61.
   (c)   Prima facie evidence of the value of property, as provided in R.C. §
2913.61(D), may be used to establish the value of property pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2909.11(B) - (D))
§ 541.02 ARSON.
   (a)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of another without the other person’s consent;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of the offender or another, with purpose to defraud;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to the
statehouse or a courthouse, school building, or other building or structure
that is owned or controlled by the state, any political subdivision, or any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the state or a political subdivision,
and that is used for public purposes;
      (4)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
property of another without the other person’s consent or to any property of
the offender or another with purpose to defraud;
      (5)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision without the consent of
the other person, the state, or the political subdivision;
      (6)   With purpose to defraud, cause, or create a substantial risk of,
physical harm to any park, preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over
land, forest, timberland, greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is
owned or controlled by the offender, another person, the state, or a political
subdivision.
   (b)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure that is not an occupied structure and that is in or on any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision.
   (c)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (b)(1)
or (b)(2) of this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the
other person.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (b)(3) of
this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the other person, the
state, or the political subdivision.
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of arson.
      (2)   A violation of division (a)(1) or (b)(1) of this section is one of
the following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (d)(2)B. of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         B.   If the value of the property or the amount of the physical harm
involved is $1,000 or more, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   A violation of division (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6), (b)
(2) or (b)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.03)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated arson, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2909.02
   Arson, felony provisions generally, see R.C. § 2909.03
   Convicted arsonist to make restitution to public agency, see R.C. § 2929.28
§ 541.03 CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING; VEHICULAR VANDALISM.
   (a)   Criminal damaging or endangering.
      (1)   No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm
to any property of another without the other person’s consent:
         A.   Knowingly, by any means; or
         B.   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas,
poison, radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other
inherently dangerous agency or substance.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (a) is guilty of criminal damaging
or endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of this
division (a) creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging
or endangering is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved
in a violation of this division (a) is an aircraft, an aircraft engine,
propeller, appliance, spare part or any other equipment or implement used or
intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the property
involved in a violation of this division (a) is an aircraft, an aircraft
engine, propeller, appliance, spare part or any other equipment or implement
used or intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the
violation creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or if the
property involved in a violation of this division (a) is an occupied aircraft,
criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.06)
   (b)   Vehicular vandalism.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (b), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         A.   ALLEY, STREET AND VEHICLE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
         B.   HIGHWAY. Any highway as defined in R.C. § 4511.01 or any lane,
road, street, alley, bridge or overpass.
         C.   VESSEL and WATERS IN THIS STATE. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 1546.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any
object at, onto or in the path of any of the following:
         A.   Any vehicle on a highway; or
         B.   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this state.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (b) is guilty of vehicular
vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division (b)(3), vehicular
vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of this
division (b) creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or the
violation of this division (b) causes serious physical harm to property,
vehicular vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
If the violation of this division (b) causes physical harm to any person or
serious physical harm to any person, vehicular vandalism is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.09)
Statutory reference:
   Disrupting public services, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.04
   Railroad grade crossing device vandalism, see R.C. § 2909.101
   Railroad vandalism, see R.C. § 2909.10
   Vandalism, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.05
§ 541.04 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (a)   No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with the either of the following:
         A.   The property of another;
         B.   One’s own residential real property with the purpose to decrease
the value of or enjoyment of the residential real property, if both of the
following apply:
            1.   The residential real property is subject to a mortgage.
            2.   The person has been served with a summons and complaint in a
pending residential mortgage loan foreclosure action relating to that real
property. As used in this division, “pending” includes the time between
judgment entry and confirmation of sale.
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another, employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator or other device
releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons exposed, or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation station,
boundary marker or other survey station, monument or marker;
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of another,
or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety of
others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for its
intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure, or personal property that
is on that land;
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software or computer program, knowingly do any of the following:
         A.   In any manner or by any means, including, but not limited to,
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy or modify a computer, computer system,
computer network, computer software, or computer program or data contained in a
computer, computer system, computer network, computer software or computer
program; or
         B.   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software or computer program.
      (7)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly destroy or improperly tamper
with a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      (1)   CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      (2)   IMPROPERLY TAMPER. Means to change the physical location or the
physical condition of the property.
      (3)   SAFETY DEVICE. Means any fire extinguisher, fire hose, or fire axe,
or any fire escape, emergency exit, or emergency escape equipment, or any life
line, life-saving ring, life preserver, or life boat or raft, or any alarm,
light, flare, signal, sign, or notice intended to warn of danger or emergency,
or intended for other safety purposes, or any guard railing or safety
barricade, or any traffic sign or signal, or any railroad grade crossing sign,
signal, or gate, or any first aid or survival equipment, or any other device,
apparatus, or equipment intended for protecting or preserving the safety of
persons or property.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief,
and shall be punished as provided in division (c)(2), (c)(3), or (c)(4) of this
section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), or (a)(5) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, if the violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4),
or (a)(5) of this section creates a risk of physical harm to any person,
criminal mischief committed in violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3),
(a)(4), or (a)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
property involved in the violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4),
or (a)(5) of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller,
appliance, spare part, fuel, lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any other equipment,
implement, or material used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft, or any cargo carried or intended to be carried in an aircraft and if
the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or if the
aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief committed in
violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), or (a)(5) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (a)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (a)(6) of this section or the loss to the victim resulting from the
violation is $1,000 or more, or if the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (a)(6) is used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft and the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or
if the aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (a)(6) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Criminal mischief committed in violation of division (a)(7) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.07)
§ 541.05 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes or
hours, when the offender knows the offender is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access;
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified by signage posted in a conspicuous place or
otherwise being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the agent or
servant of either.
      (5)   Knowingly enter or remain on a critical infrastructure facility.
   (b)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled, or in custody of a public agency.
   (c)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender was
authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved, when the
authorization was secured by deception.
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal trespass.
Criminal trespass in violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), or (a)(4) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Criminal trespass in
violation of division (a)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, if the person, in committing the
violation of this section, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle, the court shall impose a fine of two times the usual amount
imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2911.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and the offender, in committing each violation,
used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all- purpose vehicle, the court,
in addition to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation,
may impound the certificate of registration of that snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle or the certificate of registration and license plate of that all-
purpose vehicle for not less than 60 days. In such a case, R.C. § 4519.47
applies.
   (e)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, if the
offender, in committing the violation of this section, used an all-purpose
vehicle, the Clerk of the Court shall pay the fine imposed pursuant to this
section to the State Recreational Vehicle Fund created by R.C. § 4519.11.
   (f)   As used in divisions (a) through (e) of this section:
      (1)   ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE, and SNOWMOBILE. Have
the same meanings as in R.C. § 4519.01.
      (2)   CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Means:
         A.   One of the following, if completely enclosed by a fence or other
physical barrier that is obviously designed to exclude intruders, or if clearly
marked with signs that are reasonably likely to come to the attention of
potential intruders and that indicate entry is forbidden without site
authorization:
            1.   A petroleum or alumina refinery;
            2.   An electric generating facility, substation, switching
station, electrical control center, or electric transmission and distribution
lines and associated equipment;
            3.   A chemical, polymer, or rubber manufacturing facility;
            4.   A water intake structure, water treatment facility, waste
water facility, drainage facility, water management facility, or any similar
water or sewage treatment system and its water and sewage piping;
            5.   A natural gas company facility or interstate natural gas
pipeline, including a pipeline interconnection, a natural gas compressor
station and associated facilities, city gate or town border station, metering
station, above-ground piping, regulator station, valve site, delivery station,
fabricated assembly, or any other part of a natural gas storage facility
involved in the gathering, storage, transmission, or distribution of gas;
            6.   A telecommunications central switching office or remote
switching facility or an equivalent network facility that serves a similar
purpose;
            7.   Wireline or wireless telecommunications infrastructure,
including telecommunications towers and telephone poles and lines, including
fiber optic lines;
            8.   A port, trucking terminal, or other freight transportation
facility;
            9.   A gas processing plant, including a plant used in the
processing, treatment, or fractionation of natural gas or natural gas liquids;
            10.   A transmission facility used by a federally licensed radio or
television station;
            11.   A steel-making facility that uses an electric arc furnace to
make steel;
            12.   A facility identified and regulated by the United States
Department of Homeland Security's Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program under 6 C.F.R. part 27;
            13.   A dam that is regulated by the state or federal government;
            14.   A crude oil or refined products storage and distribution
facility, including valve sites, pipeline interconnections, pump station,
metering station, below- or above-ground pipeline, or piping and truck loading
or off-loading facility;
            15.   A video service network and broadband infrastructure,
including associated buildings and facilities, video service headends, towers,
utility poles, and utility lines such as fiber optic lines. As used in this
division, "video service network" has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
            16.   Any above-ground portion of an oil, gas, hazardous liquid or
chemical pipeline, tank, or other storage facility;
            17.   Any above-ground portion of a well, well pad, or production
operation;
            18.   A laydown area or construction site for pipe and other
equipment intended for use on an interstate or intrastate natural gas or crude
oil pipeline;
            19.   Any mining operation, including any processing equipment,
batching operation, or support facility for that mining operation.
         B.   With respect to a video service network or broadband or wireless
telecommunications infrastructure, the above-ground portion of a facility
installed in a public right-of-way on a utility pole or in a conduit;
         C.   Any railroad property;
         D.   An electronic asset of any of the following:
            1.   An electric light company that is a public utility under R.C.
§ 4905.02;
            2.   An electric cooperative, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            3.   A municipal electric utility, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            4.   A natural gas company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            5.   A telephone company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            6.   A video service provider, including a cable operator, as those
terms are defined in R.C. § 1332.21.
      (3)   ELECTRONIC ASSET. Includes, but is not limited to, the hardware,
software, and data of a programmable electronic device; all communications,
operations, and customer data networks; and the contents of those data
networks.
      (4)   LAND or PREMISES. Includes any land, building, structure, or place
belonging to, controlled by, or in custody of another, and any separate
enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
      (5)   PRODUCTION OPERATION, WELL, and WELL PAD. Have the same meanings as
in R.C. § 1509.01.
(R.C. § 2911.21)
   (g)   Criminal trespass on a place of public amusement.
      (1)   As used in this division (g), PLACE OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENT means a
stadium, theater or other facility, whether licensed or not, at which a live
performance, sporting event or other activity takes place for entertainment of
the public and to which access is made available to the public, regardless of
whether admission is charged.
      (2)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or
remain on any restricted portion of a place of public amusement and, as a
result of that conduct, interrupt or cause the delay of the live performance,
sporting event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement
after a printed written notice has been given as provided in division (g)(4)A.
of this section that the general public is restricted from access to that
restricted portion of the place of public amusement. A restricted portion of a
place of public amusement may include but is not limited to a playing field, an
athletic surface or a stage located at the place of public amusement.
      (3)   An owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent of the
owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a place of public amusement
may use reasonable force to restrain and remove a person from a restricted
portion of the place of public amusement if the person enters or remains on the
restricted portion of the place of public amusement and, as a result of that
conduct, interrupts or causes the delay of the live performance, sporting event
or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement. This division
does not provide immunity from criminal liability for any use of force beyond
reasonable force by an owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent
of either the owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a place of
public amusement.
      (4)   A.   Notice has been given that the general public is restricted
from access to a portion of a place of public amusement if a printed written
notice of the restricted access has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at
the entrance to that portion of the place of public amusement. If a printed
written notice is posted or exhibited as described in this division regarding a
portion of a place of public amusement, in addition to that posting or
exhibition, notice that the general public is restricted from access to that
portion of the place of public amusement also may be given, but is not required
to be given, by either of the following means:
            1.   By notifying the person personally, either orally or in
writing, that access to that portion of the place of public amusement is
restricted;
            2.   By broadcasting over the public address system of the place of
public amusement an oral warning that access to that portion of the place of
public amusement is restricted.
         B.   If notice that the general public is restricted from access to a
portion of a place of public amusement is provided by the posting or exhibition
of a printed written notice as described in division (g)(4)A. of this section,
the municipality, in a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (g)(2)
of this section, is not required to prove that the defendant received actual
notice that the general public is restricted from access to a portion of a
place of public amusement.
      (5)   A.   Whoever violates division (g)(2) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass on a place of public amusement, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         B.   In addition to any jail term, fine or other sentence, penalty or
sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to division (g)(5)A. of this
section, a court may require an offender who violates this section to perform
not less than 30 and not more than 120 hours of supervised community service
work.
(R.C. § 2911.23)
§ 541.051 AGGRAVATED TRESPASS.
   (a)   No person shall enter or remain on the land or premises of another
with purpose to commit on that land or those premises a misdemeanor, the
elements of which involve causing physical harm to another person or causing
another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to him or
her.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated trespass, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2911.211)
§ 541.06 INJURING VINES, BUSHES, TREES OR CROPS.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly cut down,
destroy, girdle or otherwise injure a vine, bush, shrub, sapling, tree or crop
standing or growing on the land of another or upon public land.
   (b)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (c) of this section,
whoever violates this section is liable in treble damages for the injury
caused.
(R.C. § 901.51)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 901.99(A))
§ 541.07 DESECRATION.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall purposely deface, damage,
pollute or otherwise physically mistreat any of the following:
      (1)   Any public monument;
      (2)   Any historical or commemorative marker, or any structure, Indian
mound or earthwork, cemetery, thing or site of great historical or
archeological interest;
      (3)   A place of worship, its furnishings or religious artifacts or
sacred texts within the place of worship or within the grounds upon which the
place of worship is located;
      (4)   A work of art or museum piece; or
      (5)   Any other object of reverence or sacred devotion.
   (b)   As used in this section, CEMETERY means any place of burial and
includes burial sites that contain American Indian burial objects placed with
or containing American Indian human remains.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of desecration. A violation of
division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(4) or (a)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the second degree. A violation of division (a)(3) of this section is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.11)
§ 541.08 ETHNIC INTIMIDATION.
   (a)   No person shall violate R.C. § 2903.21, § 2903.22, § 2909.06 or §
2909.07, or R.C. § 2917.21(A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5), or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these sections, by reason of the race,
color, religion or national origin of another person or group of persons.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of ethnic intimidation. Ethnic
intimidation is an offense of the next higher degree than the offense the
commission of which is a necessary element of ethnic intimidation. In the case
of an offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree, ethnic intimidation is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.12)
§ 541.09 RAILROAD VANDALISM; CRIMINAL TRESPASS; INTERFERENCE WITH OPERATION OF
TRAIN; GRADE CROSSING DEVICE VANDALISM.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any object
at, onto, or in the path of, any railroad rail, railroad track, locomotive,
engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company while such vehicle
is on a railroad track.
   (b)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall climb upon or into any
locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company when
it is on a railroad track.
   (c)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall disrupt, delay, or
prevent the operation of any train or other vehicle of a railroad company while
such vehicle is on a railroad track.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of railroad
vandalism. Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of criminal
trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other railroad vehicle.
Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of interference with
the operation of a train. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad vandalism; criminal trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or
other railroad vehicle; and interference with the operation of a train each is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of division (a), (b), or
(c) of this section causes serious physical harm to property or creates a
substantial risk of physical harm to any person, causes physical harm to any
person, or causes serious physical harm to any person, the violation is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.10)
   (e)   No person shall knowingly deface, damage, obstruct, remove, or
otherwise impair the operation of any railroad grade crossing warning signal or
other protective device, including any gate, bell, light, crossbuck, stop sign,
yield sign, advance warning sign, or advance pavement marking.
   (f)   Whoever violates division (e) of this section is guilty of railroad
grade crossing device vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the violation of division (e) of this section causes serious physical harm
to property or creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person,
causes physical harm to any person, or causes serious physical harm to any
person, railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.101)
§ 541.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.
CHAPTER 545: THEFT AND FRAUD
Section
545.01   Definitions
545.02   Determining property value in theft offense
545.03   Degree of offense when certain property involved
545.04   Detention of shoplifters and those committing motion picture piracy;
protection of institutional property
545.05   Theft
545.06   Unauthorized use of a vehicle; vehicle trespass
545.07   Insurance fraud
545.08   Unauthorized use of property
545.09   Passing bad checks
545.10   Misuse of credit cards
545.11   Making or using slugs
545.12   Tampering with coin machines
545.13   Criminal simulation
545.14   Tampering with records
545.15   Securing writings by deception
545.16   Personating an officer
545.17   Defrauding creditors
545.18   Receiving stolen property
545.19   Possession of criminal tools
545.20   Forgery of identification cards
545.21   Possession of municipal property
545.22   Diminishing or interfering with forfeitable property
545.23   Motion picture piracy
545.24   Failure to disclose personal information
545.25   Evidence of theft of rented property
545.26   Prosecutions for theft of utilities
545.27   Misconduct involving a public transportation system
545.28   Recording credit card, telephone or Social Security numbers
545.29   Prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud
545.30   Medicaid fraud
545.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Cheating, see §
517.05
   Falsification, see §
525.02
   Impersonating a public servant, see §
525.03
   Property defined, see § 501.01(p)
§ 545.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter and
Chapter 541, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE MEMBER. Any member of the armed forces of the
United States performing active duty under Title 10 of the United States Code.
   (b)   ANHYDROUS AMMONIA. A compound formed by the combination of two gaseous
elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, in the manner described below. ANHYDROUS
AMMONIA is one part nitrogen to three parts hydrogen (NH3). ANHYDROUS AMMONIA
by weight is 14 parts nitrogen to three parts hydrogen, which is approximately
82% nitrogen to 18% hydrogen.
   (c)   ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
   (d)   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE. Any services provided by or through the
facilities of any cable television system or other similar closed circuit
coaxial cable communications system, or any microwave or similar transmission
service used in connection with any cable television system or other similar
closed circuit coaxial cable communications system.
   (e)   COIN MACHINE. Any mechanical or electronic device designed to do both
of the following:
      (1)   Receive a coin or bill, or token made for that purpose; and
      (2)   In return for the insertion or deposit of a coin, bill or token,
automatically dispense property, provide a service or grant a license.
   (f)   COMPUTER. An electronic device that performs logical, arithmetic and
memory functions by the manipulation of electronic or magnetic impulses.
COMPUTER includes but is not limited to all input, output, processing, storage,
computer program or communication facilities that are connected, or related, in
a computer system or network to an electronic device of that nature.
   (g)   COMPUTER CONTAMINANT. A computer program that is designed to modify,
damage, destroy, disable, deny or degrade access to, allow unauthorized access
to, functionally impair, record or transmit information within a computer,
computer system, or computer network without the express or implied consent of
the owner or other person authorized to give consent and that is of a type or
kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition or of a type or
kind similar to a type or kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this
definition:
      (1)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “viruses” and
“worms” that are self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed to
contaminate other computer programs, compromise computer security, consume
computer resources, modify, destroy, record or transmit data, or disrupt the
normal operation of the computer, computer system or computer network;
      (2)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “Trojans” or “Trojan
horses” that are not self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed
to compromise computer security, consume computer resources, modify, destroy,
record or transmit data, or disrupt the normal operation of the computer,
computer system or computer network;
      (3)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “zombies” that are
designed to use a computer without the knowledge and consent of the owner, or
other person authorized to give consent, and that are designed to send large
quantities of data to a targeted computer network for the purpose of degrading
the targeted computer’s or network’s performance, or denying access through the
network to the targeted computer or network, resulting in what is commonly
known as “denial of service” or “distributed denial of service” attacks; or
      (4)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “trap doors,” “back
doors” or “root kits” that are designed to bypass standard authentication
software and that are designed to allow access or use of a computer without the
knowledge or consent of the owner, or other person authorized to give consent.
   (h)   COMPUTER HACKING.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         A.   Gaining access or attempting to gain access to all or part of a
computer, computer system or a computer network without express or implied
authorization with the intent to defraud or with intent to commit a crime;
         B.   Misusing computer or network services, including, but not limited
to, mail transfer programs, file transfer programs, proxy servers and web
servers, by performing functions not authorized by the owner of the computer,
computer system, or computer network or other person authorized to give
consent. As used in this division, MISUSE OF COMPUTER AND NETWORK SERVICES
includes but is not limited to the unauthorized use of any of the following:
            1.   Mail transfer programs to send mail to persons other than the
authorized users of that computer or computer network;
            2.   File transfer program services or proxy servers to access
other computers, computer systems or computer networks; or
            3.   Web servers to redirect users to other web pages or web
servers.
         C.   1.   Subject to division (1)C.2. of this definition, using a
group of computer programs commonly known as “port scanners” or “probes” to
intentionally access any computer, computer system or computer network without
the permission of the owner of the computer, computer system or computer
network or other person authorized to give consent. The group of computer
programs referred to in this division includes but is not limited to those
computer programs that use a computer network to access a computer, computer
system or another computer network to determine any of the following: the
presence or types of computers or computer systems on a network; the computer
network’s facilities and capabilities; the availability of computer or network
services; the presence or versions of computer software including, but not
limited to, operating systems, computer services or computer contaminants; the
presence of a known computer software deficiency that can be used to gain
unauthorized access to a computer, computer system or computer network; or any
other information about a computer, computer system or computer network not
necessary for the normal and lawful operation of the computer initiating the
access.
            2.   The group of computer programs referred to in division (1)C.1.
of this definition does not include standard computer software used for the
normal operation, administration, management and test of a computer, computer
system or computer network, including, but not limited to, domain name
services, mail transfer services and other operating system services, computer
programs commonly called “ping,” “tcpdump” and “traceroute” and other network
monitoring and management computer software, and computer programs commonly
knows as “nslookup” and “whois” and other systems administration computer
software; or
         D.   The intentional use of a computer, computer system or a computer
network in a manner that exceeds any right or permission granted by the owner
of the computer, computer system or computer network or other person authorized
to give consent.
      (2)   COMPUTER HACKING does not include the introduction of a computer
contaminant, as defined in this section, into a computer, computer system,
computer program or computer network.
   (i)   COMPUTER NETWORK. A set of related and remotely-connected computers
and communication facilities that includes more than one computer system that
has the capability to transmit among the connected computers and communication
facilities through the use of computer facilities.
   (j)   COMPUTER PROGRAM. An ordered set of data representing coded
instructions or statements that, when executed by a computer, causes the
computer to process data.
   (k)   COMPUTER SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to the use of a
computer system, computer network, computer program, data that is prepared for
computer use, or data that is contained within a computer system or computer
network.
   (l)   COMPUTER SOFTWARE. Computer programs, procedures and other
documentation associated with the operation of a computer system.
   (m)   COMPUTER SYSTEM. A computer and related devices, whether connected or
unconnected, including, but not limited to, data input, output and storage
devices, data communications links, and computer programs and data that make
the system capable of performing specified special purpose data processing
tasks.
   (n)   COUNTERFEIT TELECOMMUNI- CATIONS DEVICE. A telecommunications device
that, alone or with another telecommunications device, has been altered,
constructed, manufactured or programmed to acquire, intercept, receive or
otherwise facilitate the use of a telecommunications service or information
service without the authority or consent of the provider of the
telecommunications service or information service. The phrase includes but is
not limited to a clone telephone, clone microchip, tumbler telephone or tumbler
microchip; a wireless scanning device capable of acquiring, intercepting,
receiving or otherwise facilitating the use of telecommunications service or
information service without immediate detection; or a device, equipment,
hardware or software designed for, or capable of, altering or changing the
electronic serial number in a wireless telephone.
   (o)   CREATE A SUBSTANTIAL RISK OF SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO ANY PERSON.
Includes the creation of a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any
emergency personnel.
   (p)   CREDIT CARD. Includes but is not limited to a card, code, device or
other means of access to a customer’s account for the purpose of obtaining
money, property, labor or services on credit, or for initiating an electronic
fund transfer at a point-of-sale terminal, an automated teller machine, or a
cash dispensing machine. It also includes a county procurement card issued
under R.C. § 301.29.
   (q)   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (r)   DATA. A representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner and
that are intended for use in a computer, computer system or computer network.
   (s)   DECEPTION. To knowingly deceive another or cause another to be
deceived by any false or misleading representation, by withholding information,
by preventing another from acquiring information, or by any other conduct, act
or omission that creates, confirms or perpetuates a false impression in
another, including a false impression as to law, value, state of mind or other
objective or subjective fact.
   (t)   DEFRAUD. To knowingly obtain, by deception, some benefit for oneself
or another, or to knowingly cause, by deception, some detriment to another.
   (u)   DEPRIVE. To do any of the following:
      (1)   To withhold property of another permanently, or for a period that
appropriates a substantial portion of its value or use, or with purpose to
restore it only upon payment of a reward or other consideration;
      (2)   To dispose of property so as to make it unlikely that the owner
will recover it; or
      (3)   To accept, use or appropriate money, property or services, with
purpose not to give proper consideration in return for the money, property or
services, and without reasonable justification or excuse for not giving proper
consideration.
   (v)   DISABLED ADULT. A person who is 18 years of age or older and has some
impairment of body or mind that makes the person unable to work at any
substantially remunerative employment that the  person otherwise would be able
to perform and that will, with reasonable probability, continue for a period of
at least 12 months without any present indication of recovery from the
impairment, or who is 18 years of age or older and has been certified as
permanently and totally disabled by an agency of this state or the United
States that has the function of so classifying persons.
   (w)   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   (x)   ELDERLY PERSON. A person who is 65 years of age or older.
   (y)   ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER. Has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728, 15
U.S.C. § 1693a, as amended.
   (z)   EMERGENCY PERSONNEL. Any of the following persons:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01;
      (2)   A member of a fire department or other firefighting agency of a
municipal corporation, township, township fire district, joint fire district,
other political subdivision or combination of political subdivisions;
      (3)   A member of a private fire company, as defined in R.C. § 9.60, or a
volunteer firefighter;
      (4)   A member of a joint ambulance district or joint emergency medical
services district;
      (5)   An emergency medical technician-basic, emergency medical
technician- intermediate, emergency medical technician- paramedic, ambulance
operator or other member of an emergency medical service that is owned of
operated by a political subdivision or a private entity;
      (6)   The State Fire Marshal, the Chief Deputy State Fire Marshal or an
assistant state fire marshal; or
      (7)   A fire prevention officer of a political subdivision or an arson,
fire or similar investigator of a political subdivision.
   (aa)   FEDERALLY-LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
   (bb)   FIREARM and DANGEROUS ORDNANCE. Have the same meaning as in R.C. §
2923.11.
   (cc)   FORGE. To fabricate or create, in whole or in part and by any means,
any spurious writing, or to make, execute, alter, complete, reproduce or
otherwise purport to authenticate any writing, when the writing in fact is not
authenticated by that conduct.
   (dd)   GAIN ACCESS. To approach, instruct, communicate with, store data in,
retrieve data from or otherwise make use of any resources of a computer,
computer system or computer network, or any cable service or cable system both
as defined in R.C. § 2913.04.
   (ee)   INFORMATION SERVICE.
      (1)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, the offering of a
capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing,
retrieving, utilizing or making available information via telecommunications,
including, but not limited to, electronic publishing.
      (2)   INFORMATION SERVICE does not include any use of a capability of a
type described in division (1) of this definition for the management, control
or operation of a telecommunications system or the management of a
telecommunications service.
   (ff)   INTERNET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 341.42.
   (gg)   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (hh)   OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Any house, building, outbuilding, watercraft,
aircraft, railroad car, truck, trailer, tent or other structure, vehicle or
shelter, or any portion thereof, to which any of the following applies:
      (1)   It is maintained as a permanent or temporary dwelling, even though
it is temporarily unoccupied and whether or not any person is actually present;
      (2)   At the time, it is occupied as the permanent or temporary
habitation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (3)   At the time, it is specially adapted for the overnight
accommodation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present; or
      (4)   At the time, any person is present or likely to be present in it.
   (ii)   OWNER. Unless the context requires a different meaning, any person,
other than the actor, who is the owner of, who has possession or control of, or
who has any license or interest in property or services, even though the
ownership, possession, control, license or interest is unlawful.
   (jj)   POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.321.
   (kk)   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   (ll)   RENTED PROPERTY. Personal property in which the right of possession
and use of the property is for a short and possibly indeterminate term in
return for consideration; the rentee generally controls the duration of
possession of the property within any applicable minimum or maximum term; and
the amount of consideration is generally determined by the duration of
possession of the property.
   (mm)   SERVICES. Includes labor, personal services, professional services,
rental services, public utility services including wireless service as defined
in R.C. § 5507.01(F)(1), common carrier services, and food, drink,
transportation, entertainment and cable television services and, for purposes
of R.C. § 2913.04 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, includes
cable services as defined in that section.
   (nn)   SLUG. An object that, by virtue of its size, shape, composition or
other quality, is capable of being inserted or deposited in a coin machine as
an improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill or token made for that purpose.
   (oo)   STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   (pp)   TELECOMMUNICATION. The origination, emission, dissemination,
transmission or reception of data, images, signals, sounds or other
intelligence or equivalence or intelligence of any nature over any
communications system by any method, including, but not limited to, a fiber
optic, electronic, magnetic, optical, digital or analog method.
   (qq)   TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Any instrument, equipment, machine or
other device that facilitates telecommunication, including, but not limited to,
a computer, computer network, computer chip, computer circuit, scanner,
telephone, cellular telephone, pager, personal communications device,
transponder, receiver, radio, modem or device that enables the use of a modem.
   (rr)   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The providing, allowing, facilitating or
generating of any form of telecommunication through the use of a
telecommunications device over a telecommunications system.
   (ss)   THEFT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2911.01, § 2911.02, § 2911.11, § 2911.12, §
2911.13, § 2911.31, § 2911.32, § 2913.02, § 2913.03, § 2913.04, § 2913.041, §
2913.11, § 2913.21, § 2913.31, § 2913.32, § 2913.33, § 2913.34, § 2913.40, §
2913.42, § 2913.43, § 2913.44, § 2913.45, § 2913.47, 2913.48, former R.C. §
2913.47§ 2913.48, R.C. § 2913.51, § 2915.05, § 2921.41, or R.C. § 4737.04(B)
(2);
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition, or a violation of R.C. §
2913.41, § 2913.81 or § 2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit or fraud; or
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing any offense under division (1), (2) or (3) of this definition.
   (tt)   UTTER. To issue, publish, transfer, use, put or send into
circulation, deliver or display.
   (uu)   WRITING. Any computer software, document, letter, memorandum, note,
paper, plate, data, film or other thing having in or upon it any written, type-
written or printed matter, and any token, stamp, seal, credit card, badge,
trademark, label or other symbol of value, right, privilege, license or
identification.
(R.C. §§ 2909.01, 2913.01)
§ 545.02 DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE IN THEFT OFFENSE.
   (a)   If more than one item of property or services is involved in a theft
offense or in a violation of R.C. § 1716.14(A) involving a victim who is an
elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property or services involved in the offense.
   (b)   (1)   When a series of offenses under §
545.05, or a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation of,
conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of §
545.05, §
545.06 or §
545.08, §
545.10(b)(1) or (b)(2) of §
545.15 or
545.20 involving a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is
committed by the offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity or
relationship to another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single
offense. When a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43 involving a victim who is
an active duty service member or spouse of an active duty service member, or
any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is
committed by the offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or
relationship to another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single
offense. The value of the property or services involved in the series of
offenses for the purpose of determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61
(A) is the aggregate value of all property and services involved in all
offenses in the series.
      (2)   If an offender commits a series of offenses under §
545.05 that involves a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims,
all of the offenses may be tried as a single offense. If an offender is being
tried for the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a
violation of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of §
545.05, §
545.06 or §
545.08, §
545.10(b)(1) or (b)(2), or §
545.15 or §
545.20, whether committed against one victim or more than one victim, involving
a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, pursuant to a scheme
or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a single offense.
If an offender is being tried for the commission of a series of violations of,
attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in
violations of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, whether committed against one
victim or more than one victim, involving a victim who is an active duty
service member or spouse of an active duty service member pursuant to a scheme
or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a single offense.
If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the value of the property or
services involved for the purpose of determining the value as required by R.C.
§ 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and services involved in
all of the offenses in the course of conduct.
      (3)   When a series of two or more offenses under R.C. § 2913.40,
2913.48, or 2921.41 is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity or relationship to another, all of those offenses may be
tried as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the
value of the property or services involved for the purpose of determining the
value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property
and services involved in all of the offenses in the series of two or more
offenses.
      (4)   In prosecuting a single offense under division (b)(1), (b)(2) or
(b)(3) of this section, it is not necessary to separately allege and prove each
offense in the series. Rather, it is sufficient to allege and prove that the
offender, within a given span of time, committed one or more theft offenses or
violations of R.C. § 2913.40, 2913.48, or 2921.41 in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another as described in division (b)
(1) or (b)(3) of this section, or committed one or more theft offenses that
involve a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims or a scheme or
course of conduct as described in division (b)(2) of this section. While it is
not necessary to separately allege and prove each offense in the series in
order to prosecute a single offense under division (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of
this section, it remains necessary in prosecuting them as a single offense to
prove the aggregate value of the property or services in order to meet the
requisite statutory offense level sought by the prosecution.
   (c)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   The value of an heirloom, memento, collector’s item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record or other thing that has intrinsic
worth to its owner and that either is irreplaceable or is replaceable only on
the expenditure of substantial time, effort or money, is the amount which would
compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   The value of personal effects and household goods, and of
materials, supplies, equipment and fixtures used in the profession, business,
trade, occupation, or avocation of its owner, which property is not covered
under division (c)(1) of this section, and which retains substantial utility
for its purpose regardless of its age or condition, is the cost of replacing
the property with new property of like kind and quality.
      (3)   The value of any real or personal property that is not covered
under division (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section, and the value of services, is
the fair market value of the property or services. As used in this section,
FAIR MARKET VALUE is the money consideration which a buyer would give and a
seller would accept for property or services, assuming that the buyer is
willing to buy and the seller is willing to sell, that both are fully informed
as to all facts material to the transaction, and that neither is under any
compulsion to act.
   (d)   Without limitation on the evidence which may be used to establish the
value of property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   When the property involved is personal property held for sale at
wholesale or retail, the price at which the property was held for sale is prima
facie evidence of its value.
      (2)   When the property involved is a security or commodity traded on an
exchange, the closing price or, if there is no closing price, the asked price,
given in the latest marked quotation prior to the offense, is prima facie
evidence of the value of the security or commodity.
      (3)   When the property involved is livestock, poultry or raw
agricultural products for which a local market price is available, the latest
local market price prior to the offense is prima facie evidence of the value of
the livestock, poultry or products.
      (4)   When the property involved is a negotiable instrument, the face
value is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (5)   When the property involved is a warehouse receipt, bill of lading,
pawn ticket, claim check or other instrument entitling the holder or bearer to
receive property, the face value or, if there is no face value, the value of
the property covered by the instrument less any payment necessary to receive
the property, is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (6)   When the property involved is a ticket of admission, ticket for
transportation, coupon, token or other instrument entitling the holder or
bearer to receive property or services, the face value or, if there is no face
value, the value of the property or services which may be received by the
instrument is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (7)   When the services involved are gas, electricity, water, telephone,
transportation, shipping or other services for which the rate is established by
law, the duly established rate is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
      (8)   When the services involved are services for which the rate is not
established by law, and the offender has been notified prior to the offense of
the rate for the services, either in writing or orally, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential offenders,
the rate contained in the notice is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
(R.C. § 2913.61(B) - (E))
§ 545.03 DEGREE OF OFFENSE WHEN CERTAIN PROPERTY INVOLVED.
   Regardless of the value of the property involved, and regardless of whether
the offender previously has been convicted of a theft offense, a violation of §
545.02 or §
545.05 is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the property
involved is any of the following:
   (a)   A credit card;
   (b)   A printed form for a check or other negotiable instrument, that on its
face identifies the drawer or maker for whose use it is designed or identifies
the account on which it is to be drawn, and that has not been executed by the
drawer or maker or on which the amount is blank;
   (c)   A motor vehicle identification license plate as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.22, a temporary motor vehicle license registration as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.182, or any comparable temporary motor vehicle license registration as
prescribed by the applicable law of another state or the United States;
   (d)   A blank form for a certificate of title or a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate to a motor vehicle, as prescribed by R.C. § 4505.07; or
   (e)   A blank form for any license listed in R.C. § 4507.01.
(R.C. § 2913.71)
§ 545.04 DETENTION OF SHOPLIFTERS AND THOSE COMMITTING MOTION PICTURE PIRACY;
PROTECTION OF INSTITUTIONAL PROPERTY.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   ARCHIVAL INSTITUTION. Any public or private building, structure, or
shelter in which are stored historical documents, devices, records, manuscripts
or items of public interest, which historical materials are stored to preserve
the materials or the information in the materials, to disseminate the
information contained in the materials, or to make the materials available for
public inspection or for inspection by certain persons who have a particular
interest in, use for, or knowledge concerning the materials.
      (2)   AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION and FACILITY. Have the same meaning
as in R.C. § 2913.07.
      (3)   MUSEUM. Any public or private nonprofit institution that is
permanently organized for primarily educational or aesthetic purposes, owns or
borrows objects or items of public interest, and cares for and exhibits to the
public the objects or items.
      (4)   PRETRIAL DIVERSION PROGRAM. Means a rehabilitative, educational
program designed to reduce recidivism and promote personal responsibility that
is at least four hours in length and that has been approved by any court in
this state.
   (b)   A merchant, or an employee or agent of a merchant, who has probable
cause to believe that things offered for sale by a mercantile establishment
have been unlawfully taken by a person, may, for the purposes set forth in
division (d) below, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable
length of time within the mercantile establishment or its immediate vicinity.
   (c)   Any officer, employee or agent of a library, museum or archival
institution may, for the purposes set forth in division (d) below or for the
purpose of conducting a reasonable investigation of a belief that the person
has acted in a manner described in divisions (c)(1) and (c)(2) below, detain a
person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time within, or in the
immediate vicinity of, the library, museum or archival institution, if the
officer, employee or agent has probable cause to believe that the person has:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly moved, defaced, damaged,
destroyed or otherwise improperly tampered with property owned by or in the
custody of the library, museum or archival institution; or
      (2)   With purpose to deprive the library, museum or archival institution
of property owned by it or in its custody, knowingly obtained or exerted
control over the property without the consent of the owner or person authorized
to give consent, beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the
owner or person authorized to give consent, by deception, or by threat.
   (d)   An officer, agent or employee of a library, museum or archival
institution pursuant to division (c) above or a merchant or an employee or
agent of a merchant pursuant to division (b) above may detain another person
for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   To recover the property that is the subject of the unlawful taking,
criminal mischief or theft;
      (2)   To cause an arrest to be made by a peace officer; or
      (3)   To obtain a warrant of arrest;
      (4)   To offer the person, if the person is suspected of the unlawful
taking, criminal mischief, or theft and notwithstanding any other provision of
this Code or the Ohio Revised Code, an opportunity to complete a pretrial
diversion program and to inform the person of the other legal remedies
available to the library, museum, archival institution, or merchant.
   (e)   The owner or lessee of a facility in which a motion picture is being
shown, or the owner’s or lessee’s employee or agent, who has probable cause to
believe that a person is or has been operating an audiovisual recording
function of a device in violation of R.C. § 2935.041(A) may, for the purpose of
causing an arrest to be made by a peace officer or of obtaining an arrest
warrant, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of
time within the facility or its immediate vicinity.
   (f)   The officer, agent or employee of the library, museum or archival
institution, the merchant or an employee or agent of a merchant, or the owner,
lessee, employee or agent of the facility acting under divisions (b), (c) or
(e) above shall not search the person detained, search or seize any property
belonging to the person detained without the person’s consent, or use undue
restraint upon the person detained.
   (g)   Any peace officer may arrest without a warrant any person that the
officer has probable cause to believe has committed any act described in
division (c)(1) or (c)(2) above, that the officer has probable cause to believe
has committed an unlawful taking in a mercantile establishment, or that the
officer has reasonable cause to believe has committed an act prohibited by R.C.
§ 2913.07. An arrest under this division shall be made within a reasonable time
after the commission of the act or unlawful taking.
(R.C. § 2935.041)
§ 545.05 THEFT.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to deprive the owner of property or services,
shall knowingly obtain or exert control over either the property or services in
any of the following ways:
      (1)   Without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give
consent;
      (2)   Beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent;
      (3)   By deception;
      (4)   By threat;
      (5)   By intimidation.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of theft. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of this section is misdemeanor theft, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   If the value of the property or services is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   If the property stolen is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person, disabled adult,
active duty service member, or spouse of an active duty service member;
      (4)   If the property stolen is a firearm or dangerous ordnance;
      (5)   If the property stolen is a motor vehicle;
      (6)   If the property stolen is any dangerous drug, or if the offender
previously has been convicted of a felony drug abuse offense;
      (7)   If the property stolen is a police dog or horse or an assistance
dog and the offender knows or should know that the property stolen is a police
dog or horse or an assistance dog;
      (8)   If the property stolen is anhydrous ammonia; or
      (9)   If the property stolen is a special purchase article as defined in
R.C. § 4737.04 or is a bulk merchandise container as defined in R.C. §
4737.012.
   (c)   In addition to the penalties described in division (b) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by causing a motor vehicle to
leave the premises of an establishment at which gasoline is offered for retail
sale without the offender making full payment for gasoline that was dispensed
into the fuel tank of the motor vehicle or into another container, the court
may do one of the following:
      (1)   Unless division (c)(2) of this section applies, suspend for not
more than six months the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or
nonresident operating privilege;
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or nonresident
operating privilege has previously been suspended pursuant to division (c)(1)
of this section, or any other substantially equivalent state or local law,
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s license, permit or privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), provided that the suspension
shall be at least six months;
      (3)   The court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, probationary driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or nonresident operating privilege pursuant to division (c)
(1) or (c)(2) of this section, instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court.
   (d)   In addition to the penalties described in division (b) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by stealing rented property or
rental services, the court may order that the offender make restitution
pursuant to R.C. § 2929.18 or R.C. § 2929.28. Restitution may include, but is
not limited to, the cost of repairing or replacing the stolen property, or the
cost of repairing the stolen property and any loss of revenue resulting from
deprivation of the property due to theft of rental services that is less than
or equal to the actual value of the property at the time it was rented.
Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental services shall
be determined pursuant to the provisions of R.C. § 2913.72.
   (e)   The sentencing court that suspends an offender’s license, permit, or
nonresident operating privilege under division (c) of this section may grant
the offender limited driving privileges during the period of the suspension in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 4510.
(R.C. § 2913.02)
Statutory reference:
   Felony theft provisions, see R.C. § 2913.02(B)
§ 545.06 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE; VEHICLE TRESPASS.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of
the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorboat or other motor- propelled vehicle without the consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent, and either remove it from this state or keep
possession of it for more than 48 hours.
   (c)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section:
      (1)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor, though mistaken,
reasonably believed that he or she was authorized to use or operate the
property.
      (2)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor reasonably believed
that the owner or person empowered to give consent would authorize the actor to
use or operate the property.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unauthorized use of a
vehicle.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (d)(1), a violation
of division (a) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult and if the victim
incurs a loss as a result of the violation, a violation of division (a) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (b) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.03)
Statutory reference:
   Theft offense involving motor vehicle, offender to pay towing and storage
fees, see R.C. § 2913.82
§ 545.07 INSURANCE FRAUD.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   DATA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01 and additionally
includes any other representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner.
      (2)   DECEPTIVE. A statement, in whole or in part, would cause another to
be deceived because it contains a misleading representation, withholds
information, prevents the acquisition of information, or by any other conduct,
act or omission creates, confirms or perpetuates a false impression, including,
but not limited to, a false impression as to law, value, state of mind or other
objective or subjective fact.
      (3)   INSURER. Any person that is authorized to engage in the business of
insurance in this state under R.C. Title 39, the Ohio Fair Plan Underwriting
Association created under R.C. § 3929.43, any health insuring corporation, and
any legal entity that is self-insured and provides benefits to its employees or
members.
      (4)   POLICY. A policy, certificate, contract or plan that is issued by
an insurer.
      (5)   STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any notice, letter, or
memorandum; proof of loss; bill of lading; receipt for payment; invoice,
account or other financial statement; estimate of property damage; bill for
services; diagnosis or prognosis; prescription; hospital, medical or dental
chart or other record; x-ray, photograph, videotape or movie film; test result;
other evidence of loss, injury or expense; computer-generated document; and
data in any form.
   (b)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Present to, or cause to be presented to, an insurer any written or
oral statement that is part of, or in support of, an application for insurance,
a claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive; or
      (2)   Assist, aid, abet, solicit, procure or conspire with another to
prepare or make any written or oral statement that is intended to be presented
to an insurer as part of, or in support of, an application for insurance, a
claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of insurance fraud. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, insurance fraud is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the amount of the claim that is false or deceptive is $1,000
or more, insurance fraud is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
   (d)   This section shall not be construed to abrogate, waive or modify R.C.
§ 2317.02(A).
(R.C. § 2913.47)
§ 545.08 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly use or operate the property of another
without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (b)   No person, in any manner and by any means, including but not limited
to computer hacking, shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
or cause access to be gained to any computer, computer system, computer
network, cable service, cable system, telecommunications device,
telecommunications service or information service without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the owner of the
computer, computer system, computer network, cable service, cable system,
telecommunications device, telecommunications service or information service or
other person authorized to give consent.
   (c)   Except as permitted under R.C. § 5503.101, no person shall knowingly
gain access to, attempt to gain access to, cause access to be granted to, or
disseminate information gained from access to the law enforcement automated
database system created pursuant to R.C. § 5503.10 without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the chair of the Law
Enforcement Automated Data System Steering Committee.
   (d)   No person shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
cause access to be granted to, or disseminate information gained from access to
the Ohio law enforcement gateway established and operated pursuant to R.C. §
109.57(C)(1) without the consent of, or beyond the scope of the express or
implied consent of, the Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification
and Investigation.
   (e)   The affirmative defenses contained in R.C. § 2913.03(C) are
affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (f)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of property. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
unauthorized use of property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (1)   If unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
unauthorized use of property is whichever of the following is applicable:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided below, unauthorized use of property
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   If the value of the property or services or the loss to the
victim is $1,000 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, unauthorized use of property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (g)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of computer, cable or telecommunication property, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (h)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the law enforcement automated database system, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (i)   Whoever violates subsection (d) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the Ohio law enforcement gateway, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (j)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   CABLE OPERATOR. Any person or group of persons that does either of
the following:
         A.   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system;
         B.   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of a cable system.
      (2)   CABLE SERVICE. Any of the following:
         A.   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
of information that a cable operator makes available to all subscribers
generally;
         B.   Subscriber interaction, if any, that is required for the
selection or use of video programming or of information that a cable operator
makes available to all subscribers generally, both as described in division (f)
(2)A. above;
         C.   Any cable television service.
      (3)   CABLE SYSTEM. Any facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service that includes video
programming and that is provided to multiple subscribers within a community.
“Cable system” does not include any of the following:
         A.   Any facility that serves only to retransmit the television
signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
         B.   Any facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way;
         C.   Any facility of a common carrier that, under 47 U.S.C. 522(7)(c),
is excluded from the term “cable system” as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(7);
         D.   Any open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. 573;
         E.   Any facility of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
(R.C. § 2913.04)
Statutory reference:
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 913.05 and 2913.06
§ 545.09 PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   CHECK. Includes any form of debit from a demand deposit account,
including, but not limited to, any of the following:
         A.   A check, bill of exchange, draft, order of withdrawal, or similar
negotiable or non-negotiable instrument; or
         B.   An electronic check, electronic transaction, debit card
transaction, check card transaction, substitute check, web check or any form of
automated clearing house transaction.
      (2)   ISSUE A CHECK. Causing any form of debit from a demand deposit
account.
   (b)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall issue or transfer or cause
to be issued or transferred a check or other negotiable instrument, knowing
that it will be dishonored or knowing that a person has ordered or will order
stop payment on the check or other negotiable instrument.
   (c)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a check
or other negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored
if either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer has no account with the drawee at the time of issue or
the stated date, whichever is later.
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within 30 days after issue or
the stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer, endorser,
or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days after receiving notice of dishonor.
   (d)   In determining the value of the payment for purposes of division (e)
of this section, the court may aggregate all checks and other negotiable
instruments that the offender issued or transferred or caused to be issued or
transferred in violation of division (b) of this section within a period of 180
consecutive days.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of passing bad checks. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, passing bad checks is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the check or checks or other negotiable instrument or
instruments are issued or transferred to a single vendor or single other person
for the payment of $1,000 or more, or if the check or checks or other
negotiable instrument or instruments are issued or transferred to multiple
vendors or persons for the payment of $1,500 or more, passing bad checks is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.11)
§ 545.10 MISUSE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Practice deception for the purpose of procuring the issuance of a
credit card, when a credit card is issued in actual reliance thereon; or
      (2)   Knowingly buy or sell a credit card from or to a person other than
the issuer;
      (3)   As an officer, employee, or appointee of a political subdivision or
as a public servant as defined under R.C. § 2921.01, knowingly misuse a credit
card account held by a political subdivision.
   (b)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Obtain control over a credit card as security for a debt;
      (2)   Obtain property or services by the use of a credit card, in one or
more transactions, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the card
has expired or been revoked, or was obtained, is retained or is being used in
violation of law;
      (3)   Furnish property or services upon presentation of a credit card,
knowing that the card is being used in violation of law; or
      (4)   Represent or cause to be represented to the issuer of a credit card
that property or services have been furnished, knowing that the representation
is false.
   (c)   No person, with purpose to violate this section, shall receive,
possess, control or dispose of a credit card.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misuse of credit cards.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (d)(3) of this section, a
violation of division (a), (b)(1) or (c) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (d)(3) of
this section, a violation of division (b)(2), (b)(3) or (b)(4) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the cumulative retail value of the
property and services involved in one or more violations of division (b)(2),
(b)(3) or (b)(4) of this section which violations involve one or more credit
card accounts and occur within a period of 90 consecutive days commencing on
the date of the first violation, is $1,000 or more, misuse of credit cards is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, and if the offense involves a violation of division (b)(1) or (b)(2) of
this section, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.21)
§ 545.11 MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud; or
      (2)   Make, possess or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2913.33)
§ 545.12 TAMPERING WITH COIN MACHINES.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to commit theft or to defraud, shall knowingly
enter, force an entrance into, tamper with or insert any part of an instrument
into any coin machine.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with coin
machines, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of this section or of any theft offense as
defined in R.C. § 2913.01, tampering with coin machines is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2911.32)
§ 545.13 CRIMINAL SIMULATION.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to defraud, or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Make or alter any object so that it appears to have value because
of antiquity, rarity, curiosity, source or authorship, which it does not in
fact possess.
      (2)   Practice deception in making, retouching, editing or reproducing
any photograph, movie film, video tape, phonograph record or recording tape.
      (3)   Falsely or fraudulently make, simulate, forge, alter or counterfeit
any wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control
Commission under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, falsely or fraudulently cause to
be made, simulated, forged, altered or counterfeited any wrapper, label, stamp,
cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under R.C. Chapters
4301 and 4303, or use more than once any wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap
prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303.
      (4)   Offer, or possess with the purpose to offer, any object that the
person knows to have been simulated as provided in divisions (a)(1), (a)(2) or
(a)(3) of this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal simulation. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, criminal simulation is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more, criminal
simulation is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.32)
§ 545.14 TAMPERING WITH RECORDS.
   (a)   No person, knowing that he or she has no privilege to do so, and with
purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is facilitating a fraud, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Falsify, destroy, remove, conceal, alter, deface or mutilate any
writing, computer software, data or record; or
      (2)   Utter any writing or record, knowing it to have been tampered with
as provided in division (a)(1) of this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with records.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (b)(3) of this section, if the
offense does not involve data or computer software, tampering with records is
whichever of the following is applicable:
         A.   If division (b)(1)B. of this section does not apply, it is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   If the writing or record is a will unrevoked at the time of the
offense, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (b)(3) of this section, if the
offense involves a violation of division (a) of this section involving data or
computer software, tampering with records is whichever of the following is
applicable:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(2)B. of this
section, it is a misdemeanor of the first degree; or
         B.   If the value of the data or computer software involved in the
offense or the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more or if the offense is
committed for the purpose of devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to
obtain property or services and the value of the property or services or the
loss to the victim is $7,500 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the writing, data, computer software or record is kept by or
belongs to a local, state or federal governmental entity, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.42)
§ 545.15 SECURING WRITINGS BY DECEPTION.
   (a)   No person, by deception, shall cause another to execute any writing
that disposes of or encumbers property, or by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of securing writings by
deception. Except as otherwise provided in this division, securing writings by
deception is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property or
the obligation involved is $1,000 or more, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate to state law. If the victim of the
offense is an elderly person, disabled adult, active duty service member, or
spouse of an active duty service member, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.43)
§ 545.16 PERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is
facilitating a fraud, or with purpose to induce another to purchase property or
services, shall personate a law enforcement officer, or an inspector,
investigator or agent of any governmental agency.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of personating an officer, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2913.44)
§ 545.17 DEFRAUDING CREDITORS.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to defraud one or more of his or her
creditors, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Remove, conceal, destroy, encumber, convey or otherwise deal with
any of his or her property; or
      (2)   Misrepresent or refuse to disclose to a fiduciary appointed to
administer or manage his or her affairs or estate, the existence, amount or
location of any of his or her property, or any other information regarding the
property which he or she is legally required to furnish to the fiduciary.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of defrauding creditors.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, defrauding creditors is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property involved is
$1,000 or more, defrauding creditors is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.45)
§ 545.18 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall receive, retain or dispose of property of another
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the property has been
obtained through commission of a theft offense.
   (b)   It is not a defense to a charge of receiving stolen property in
violation of this section that the property was obtained by means other than
through the commission of a theft offense if the property was explicitly
represented to the accused person as being obtained through the commission of a
theft offense.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of receiving stolen property.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, receiving stolen property is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   The value of the property involved is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   The property involved is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   The property involved is a firearm or dangerous ordnance, as
defined in R.C. § 2923.11;
      (4)   The property involved is a motor vehicle as defined in R.C. §
4501.01;
      (5)   The property involved is any dangerous drug, as defined in R.C. §
4729.01; or
      (6)   The property involved in violation of this section is a special
purchase article as defined in R.C. § 4737.04 or a bulk merchandise container
as defined in R.C. § 4737.012.
(R.C. § 2913.51)
§ 545.19 POSSESSION OF CRIMINAL TOOLS.
   (a)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any
substance, device, instrument or article, with purpose to use it criminally.
   (b)   Each of the following constitutes prima facie evidence of criminal
purpose:
      (1)   Possession or control of any dangerous ordnance, or the materials
or parts for making a dangerous ordnance, in the absence of circumstances
indicating the dangerous ordnance, materials or parts are intended for a
legitimate use.
      (2)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument or
article designed or specially adapted for criminal use.
      (3)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument or
article commonly used for criminal purposes, under circumstances indicating the
item is intended for criminal use.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing criminal tools.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, possessing criminal tools is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the circumstances indicate that the
substance, device, instrument or article involved in the offense was intended
for use in the commission of a felony, possessing criminal tools is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.24)
§ 545.20 FORGERY OF IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Forge an identification card.
      (2)   Sell or otherwise distribute a card that purports to be an
identification card, knowing it was forged.
   (b)   As used in this section, IDENTIFICATION CARD means a card that
includes personal information or characteristics of an individual, a purpose of
which is to establish the identity of the bearer described on the card, whether
the words IDENTITY, IDENTIFICATION, IDENTIFICATION CARD or other similar words
appear on the card.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of forging
identification cards or selling or distributing forged identification cards.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, forging identification cards or
selling or distributing forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
division (a) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, forging identification cards or selling or distributing
forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the first degree and, in
addition, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine not less than $250.
      (2)   If the victim of a violation of this section is an elderly person,
R.C. § 2913.31(C)(2)(b) applies and the offense shall be prosecuted under R.C.
§ 2913.31.
(R.C. § 2913.31(B), (C)(2))
Statutory reference:
   Forgery, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2913.31(A), (C)(1)
   Forgery of originating address or other routing information in connection
with the transmission of an electronic mail advertisement, felony provisions,
see R.C. § 2307.64
§ 545.21 POSSESSION OF MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall, without being authorized, have in his or her control
or possession any equipment, tools, implements or other property belonging to
the municipality.
(R.C. § 5589.12)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 545.22 DIMINISHING OR INTERFERING WITH FORFEITABLE PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall destroy, damage, remove or transfer property that is
subject to forfeiture or otherwise take any action in regard to property that
is subject to forfeiture with purpose to do any of the following:
      (1)   Prevent or impair the state’s or political subdivision’s lawful
authority to take the property into its custody or control under R.C. Chapter
2981 or to continue holding the property under its lawful custody or control;
      (2)   Impair or defeat the court’s continuing jurisdiction over the
person and property; or
      (3)   Devalue property that the person knows, or has reasonable cause to
believe, is subject to forfeiture proceedings under R.C. Chapter 2981.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with or
diminishing forfeitable property. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(b), interference with or diminishing forfeitable property is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the property is $1,000 or more, interference
with or diminishing forfeitable property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2981.07)
§ 545.23 MOTION PICTURE PIRACY.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION. The capability of a device to
record or transmit a motion picture or any part of a motion picture by means of
any technology existing on, or developed after, March 9, 2004.
      (2)   FACILITY. A movie theater.
   (b)   No person, without the written consent of the owner or lessee of the
facility and of the licensor of the motion picture, shall knowingly operate an
audiovisual recording function of a device in a facility in which the motion
picture is being shown.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of motion
picture piracy, a misdemeanor of the first degree on the first offense and a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (d)   This section does not prohibit or restrict a lawfully authorized
investigative, law enforcement, protective or intelligence gathering employee
or agent of the government of this state or a political subdivision of this
state, or of the federal government, when acting in an official capacity, from
operating an audiovisual recording function of a device in any facility in
which a motion picture is being shown.
   (e)   Division (b) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of any other prohibition in this code or the Ohio Revised Code. Any act that is
a violation of both division (b) of this section and another provision of this
code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, under the
other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, or under both this
section and the other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 2913.07)
§ 545.24 FAILURE TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   (a)   No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the
person’s name, address or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement
officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:
      (1)   The person is committing, has committed or is about to commit a
criminal offense.
      (2)   The person witnessed any of the following:
         A.   An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the
laws of this state;
         B.   A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a
substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or property;
         C.   Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in committing,
any offenses identified in division (a)(2)A. or (a)(2)B. of this section; or
         D.   Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in
division (a)(2)A. or (a)(2)B. of this section or any attempt, conspiracy or
complicity described in division (a)(2)C. of this section has been, is being or
is about to be committed.
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of failure to
disclose one’s personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (c)   Nothing in division (a) of this section requires a person to answer
any questions beyond that person’s name, address or date of birth. Nothing in
division (a) of this section authorizes a law enforcement officer to arrest a
person for not providing any information beyond the person’s name, address or
date of birth or for refusing to describe the offense observed.
   (d)   It is not a violation of division (a) of this section to refuse to
answer a question that would reveal a person’s age or date of birth if age is
an element of the crime that the person is suspected of committing.
(R.C. § 2921.29)
   (e)   No person entering an airport, train station, port or other similar
critical transportation infrastructure site shall refuse to show identification
when requested by a law enforcement officer when there is a threat to security
and the law enforcement officer is requiring identification of all persons
entering the site.
   (f)   A law enforcement officer may prevent any person who refuses to show
identification when asked under the circumstances described in division (e) of
this section from entering the critical transportation infrastructure site.
(R.C. § 2909.31)
§ 545.25 EVIDENCE OF THEFT OF RENTED PROPERTY.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   RENTEE. A person who pays consideration to a renter for the use of
rented property.
      (2)   RENTER. A person who owns rented property.
   (b)   Each of the following shall be considered evidence of intent to commit
theft of rented property or rental services:
      (1)   At the time of entering into the rental contract, the rentee
presented the renter with identification that was materially false, fictitious
or not current with respect to name, address, place of employment or other
relevant information.
      (2)   After receiving a notice demanding the return of the rented
property as provided in division (c) of this section, the rentee neither
returned the rented property nor made arrangements acceptable with the renter
to return the rented property.
   (c)   To establish that a rentee has an intent to commit theft of rented
property or rental services under division (b)(2) above, a renter may issue a
notice to a rentee demanding the return of the rented property. The renter
shall mail the notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
rentee at the address the rentee gave when the rental contract was executed, or
to the rentee at the last address the rentee or the rentee’s agent furnished in
writing to the renter.
   (d)   A demand for the return of the rented property is not a prerequisite
for the prosecution of a rentee for theft of rented property or rental
services. The evidence specified in division (b) above does not constitute the
only evidence that may be considered as evidence of intent to commit theft of
rented property or rental services.
(R.C. § 2913.72)
§ 545.26 PROSECUTIONS FOR THEFT OF UTILITIES.
   (a)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves alleged tampering with a gas, electric, steam or water meter,
conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the utility,
proof that a meter, conduit or attachment of a utility has been tampered with
is prima facie evidence that the person who is obligated to pay for the service
rendered through the meter, conduit or attachment, and who is in possession or
control of the meter, conduit or attachment at the time the tampering occurred
has caused the tampering with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (b)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves the alleged reconnection of a gas, electric, steam or water
meter, conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the
utility, proof that a meter, conduit or attachment disconnected by a utility
has been reconnected without the consent of the utility is prima facie evidence
that the person in possession or control of the meter, conduit or attachment at
the time of the reconnection has reconnected the meter, conduit or attachment
with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (c)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   TAMPER. To interfere with, damage or bypass a utility meter,
conduit or attachment with the intent to impede the correct registration of a
meter or the proper functions of a conduit or attachment so as to reduce the
amount of utility service that is registered on the meter.
(R.C. § 4933.18)
      (2)   UTILITY. Any electric light company, gas company, natural gas
company, pipe- line company, water-works company or heating or cooling company,
as defined in R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), its lessees,
trustees or receivers,  or any similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision.
   (d)   Each electric light company, gas company, natural gas company,
pipeline company, waterworks company or heating or cooling company, as defined
by R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), or its lessees, trustees or
receivers, and each similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision, shall notify its customers, on an annual basis, that tampering
with or bypassing a meter constitutes a theft offense that could result in the
imposition of criminal sanctions.
(R.C. § 4933.19)
§ 545.27 MISCONDUCT INVOLVING A PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
   (a)   As used in this section, PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM means a county
transit system operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.01 to 306.13, a regional
transit authority operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.30 to 306.71, or a
regional transit commission operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.80 to
306.90.
   (b)   No person shall evade the payment of the known fares of a public
transportation system.
   (c)   No person shall alter any transfer, pass, ticket or token of a public
transportation system with the purpose of evading the payment of fares or of
defrauding the system.
   (d)   No person shall do any of the following while in any facility or on
any vehicle of a public transportation system:
      (1)   Play sound equipment without the proper use of a private earphone;
      (2)   Smoke, eat or drink in any area where the activity is clearly
marked as being prohibited; or
      (3)   Expectorate upon a person, facility or vehicle.
   (e)   No person shall write, deface, draw or otherwise mark on any facility
or vehicle of a public transportation system.
   (f)   No person shall fail to comply with a lawful order of a public
transportation system police officer, and no person shall resist, obstruct or
abuse a public transportation police officer in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (g)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of
misconduct involving a public transportation system.
      (1)   A violation of division (b), (c) or (f) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (d) of this section is a minor misdemeanor
on a first offense. If a person previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any division of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any division of this section, a
violation of division (d) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (e) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
   (h)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 75% of each fine paid to
satisfy a sentence imposed for a violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall be deposited into the Treasury of the county and 25% shall be
deposited with the county transit board, regional transit authority or regional
transit commission that operates the public transportation system involved in
the violation, unless the Board of County Commissioners operates the public
transportation system, in which case 100% of each fine shall be deposited into
the Treasury of the county.
(R.C. § 2917.41)
§ 545.28 RECORDING CREDIT CARD, TELEPHONE OR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS.
   (a)   No person shall record or cause to be recorded either of the
following:
      (1)   A credit card account number of the other party to a transaction,
when a check, bill of exchange or other draft is presented for payment; or
      (2)   The telephone number or Social Security account number of the other
party to a transaction, when payment is made by credit card charge agreement,
check, bill of exchange or other draft.
   (b)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to a transaction, if all
of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number is recorded for a legitimate business purpose, including
collection purposes.
      (2)   The other party to the transaction consents to the recording of the
credit card account number, Social Security account number or telephone number.
      (3)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number that is recorded during the course of the transaction is not
disclosed to any third party for any purposes other than collection purposes
and is not used to market goods or services unrelated to the goods or services
purchased in the transaction.
   (c)   Nothing in this section prohibits the recording of the number of a
credit card account when given in lieu of a deposit to secure payment in the
event of default, loss, damage or other occurrence, or requires a person to
accept a check presented for payment, if the other party to the transaction
refuses to consent to the recording of the number of the party’s Social
Security account or license to operate a motor vehicle. (R.C. § 1349.17)
   (d)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1349.99)
§ 545.29 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF PURPOSE TO DEFRAUD.
   In a prosecution of a person for a theft offense that alleges that the
person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she was facilitating a
fraud, hired or rented an aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy or other property or equipment, kept or
operated any of the same that has been hired or rented, or engaged
accommodations at a hotel, motel, inn, campground or other hostelry, it is
prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud if the person did any of the
following:
   (a)   Used deception to induce the rental agency to furnish the person with
the aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, sailboat, camper, trailer,
horse, buggy or other property or equipment, or used deception to induce the
hostelry to furnish the person with accommodations;
   (b)   Hired or rented any aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy or other property or equipment, or
engaged accommodations, knowing that he or she is without sufficient means to
pay the hire or rental;
   (c)   Absconded without paying the hire or rental;
   (d)   Knowingly failed to pay the hire or rental as required by the contract
of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure; or
   (e)   Knowingly failed to return hired or rented property as required by the
contract of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure.
(R.C. § 2913.41)
§ 545.30 MEDICAID FRAUD.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   PROVIDER. Any person who has signed a provider agreement with the
Department of Medicaid to provide goods or services pursuant to the Medicaid
program or any person who has signed an agreement with a party to such a
provider agreement under which the person agrees to provide goods or services
that are reimbursable under the medical assistance program.
      (2)   PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
      (3)   RECIPIENT. Any individual who receives goods or services from a
provider under the Medicaid program.
      (4)   RECORDS. Any medical, professional, financial or business records
relating to the treatment or care of any recipient, to goods or services
provided to any recipient, or to rates paid for goods or services provided to
any recipient, and any records that are required by the rules of the Medicaid
Director to be kept for the Medicaid program.
      (5)   STATEMENT OR REPRESENTATION. Any oral, written, electronic,
electronic impulse or magnetic communication that is used to identify an item
of goods or a service for which reimbursement may be made under the Medicaid
program or that states income and expense and is or may be used to determine a
rate of reimbursement under the Medicaid program.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a false or
misleading statement or representation for use in obtaining reimbursement from
the Medicaid program.
   (c)   No person, with purpose to commit fraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Contrary to the terms of the person’s provider agreement, charge,
solicit, accept or receive for goods or services that the person provides under
the Medicaid program any property, money or other consideration in addition to
the amount of reimbursement under the Medicaid program and the person’s
provider agreement for the goods or services and any cost-sharing expenses
authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid Director
regarding the Medicaid program.
      (2)   Solicit, offer or receive any remuneration, other than any cost-
sharing expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid
Director regarding the Medicaid program, in cash or in kind, including but not
limited to a kickback or rebate, in connection with the furnishing of goods or
services for which whole or partial reimbursement is or may be made under the
Medicaid program.
   (d)   No person, having submitted a claim for or provided goods or services
under the Medicaid program, shall do either of the following for a period of at
least six years after a reimbursement pursuant to that claim, or a
reimbursement for those goods or services, is received under the Medicaid
program:
      (1)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to fully disclose the nature of all goods or services for
which the claim was submitted, or for which reimbursement was received, by the
person; or
      (2)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to disclose fully all income and expenditures upon which
rates of reimbursements were based for the person.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of Medicaid fraud. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, Medicaid fraud is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the value of the property, services or funds obtained in
violation of this section is $1,000 or more, Medicaid fraud is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (f)   Upon application of the governmental agency, office or other entity
that conducted the investigation and prosecution in a case under this section,
the court shall order any person who is convicted of a violation of this
section for receiving any reimbursement for furnishing goods or services under
the Medicaid program to which the person is not entitled to pay to the
applicant its cost of investigating and prosecuting the case. The costs of
investigation and prosecution that a defendant is ordered to pay pursuant to
this division shall be in addition to any other penalties for the receipt of
that reimbursement that are provided in this section, R.C. § 2913.40 or §
5164.35, or any other provision of law.
   (g)   The provisions of this section are not intended to be exclusive
remedies and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this section.
(R.C. § 2913.40)
   (h)   Medicaid eligibility fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following in an application
for enrollment in the Medicaid program or in a document that requires a
disclosure of assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for the
Medicaid program:
         A.   Make or cause to be made a false or misleading statement;
         B.   Conceal an interest in property; or
         C.   1.   Except as provided in division (h)(1)C.2. of this section,
fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during the period
beginning 36 months before submission of the application or document and ending
on the date the application or document was submitted; or
            2.   Fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during
the period beginning 60 months before submission of the application or document
and ending on the date the application or document was submitted and that was
made to an irrevocable trust a portion of which is not distributable to the
applicant for or recipient of Medicaid or to a revocable trust.
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates this division (h) is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation
of this division (h) is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the
Medicaid services paid as a result of the violation is $1,000 or more, a
violation of this division (h) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
         B.   In addition to imposing a sentence under division (h)(2)A. of
this section, the court shall order that a person who is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud make restitution in the full amount of any Medicaid services
paid on behalf of an applicant for or recipient of Medicaid benefits for which
the applicant or recipient was not eligible, plus interest at the rate
applicable to judgments on unreimbursed amounts from the date on which the
Medicaid services were paid to the date on which restitution is made.
         C.   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (h) are not
exclusive and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this division (h).
      (3)   This division (h) does not apply to a person who fully disclosed in
an application for Medicaid or in a document that requires a disclosure of
assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for Medicaid all of the
interests in property of the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, all
transfers of property by the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, and the
circumstances of all those transfers.
      (4)   Any amounts of Medicaid services recovered as restitution under
this division (h) and any interest on those amounts shall be credited to the
General Revenue Fund, and any applicable federal share shall be returned to the
appropriate agency or department of the United States.
      (5)   For the purpose of this division (h), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         A.   MEDICAID SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         B.   PROPERTY. Any real or personal property or other asset in which a
person has any legal title or interest.
(R.C. § 2913.401)
§ 545.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.
CHAPTER 549: WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
Section
549.01   Definitions
549.02   Carrying concealed weapons
549.03   Using weapons while intoxicated
549.04   Improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle
549.05   Failure to secure dangerous ordnance
549.06   Unlawful transactions in weapons
549.07   Underage purchase of firearm or handgun
549.08   Pointing and discharging firearms
549.09   Throwing or projecting missile
549.10   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school
safety zone
549.11   Blasting permit
549.12   Concealed handgun licenses: possession of a revoked or suspended
license; additional restrictions; posting of signs prohibiting possession
549.13   Defaced firearms
549.14   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention
549.15   License or permit to possess dangerous ordnance
549.16   Reserved
549.17   Discharge of a firearm on or near prohibited premises
549.18   Endangering aircraft and airport operations
549.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Criminal mischief, see §
541.04
   Hunting prohibited, see §
505.11
   Reporting gunshot and stab wounds, see §
525.05(b)
Statutory reference:
   License or permit to possess dangerous ordnance, see R.C. § 2923.18
§ 549.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   ACTIVE DUTY. Has the same meaning as defined in 10 U.S.C. § 101.
   (b)   ALIEN REGISTRATION NUMBER. The number issued by the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services Agency that is located on the alien’s
permanent resident card and may also be commonly referred to as the USCIS
NUMBER or the ALIEN NUMBER.
   (c)   AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
succession of cartridges with a single function of the trigger.
   (d)   BALLISTIC KNIFE. A knife with a detachable blade that is propelled by
a spring-operated mechanism.
   (e)   CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED HANDGUN.
      (1)   Means, subject to division (2) of this definition, a license or
temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun issued under R.C. §
2923.125 or R.C. § 2923.1213 or a license to carry a concealed handgun issued
by another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
      (2)   A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed handgun
license issued under R.C. § 2923.125 or a license to carry a concealed handgun
issued under R.C. § 2923.125 means only a license of the type that is specified
in that section. A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed
handgun license issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, a license to carry a concealed
handgun issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, or a license to carry a concealed
handgun on a temporary emergency basis means only a license of the type that is
specified in R.C. § 2923.1213. A reference in any provision of this Code to a
concealed handgun license issued by another state or a license to carry a
concealed handgun issued by another state means only a license issued by
another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
   (f)   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
      (1)   Any of the following, except as provided in division (2) of this
definition:
         A.   Any automatic or sawed-off firearm, zip-gun or ballistic knife.
         B.   Any explosive device or incendiary device.
         C.   Nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose, nitrostarch, PETN, cyclonite, TNT,
picric acid, and other high explosives; amatol, tritonal, tetrytol, pentolite,
pecretol, cyclotol and other high explosive compositions; plastic explosives;
dynamite, blasting gelatin, gelatin dynamite, sensitized ammonium nitrate,
liquid-oxygen blasting explosives, blasting powder and other blasting agents;
and any other explosive substance having sufficient brisance or power to be
particularly suitable for use as a military explosive, or for use in mining,
quarrying, excavating or demolitions.
         D.   Any firearm, rocket launcher, mortar, artillery piece, grenade,
mine, bomb, torpedo or similar weapon, designed and manufactured for military
purposes, and the ammunition for that weapon.
         E.   Any firearm muffler or suppressor.
         F.   Any combination of parts that is intended by the owner for use in
converting any firearm or other device into a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE does not include any of the following:
         A.   Any firearm, including a military weapon and the ammunition for
that weapon, and regardless of its actual age, that employs a percussion cap or
other obsolete ignition system, or that is designed and safe for use only with
black powder.
         B.   Any pistol, rifle or shotgun, designed or suitable for sporting
purposes, including a military weapon as issued or as modified, and the
ammunition for that weapon, unless the firearm is an automatic or sawed-off
firearm.
         C.   Any cannon or other artillery piece that, regardless of its
actual age, is of a type in accepted use prior to 1887, has no mechanical,
hydraulic, pneumatic or other system for absorbing recoil and returning the
tube into battery without displacing the carriage, and is designed and safe for
use only with black powder.
         D.   Black powder, priming quills and percussion caps possessed and
lawfully used to fire a cannon of a type defined in division (2)C. of this
definition during displays, celebrations, organized matches or shoots, and
target practice, and smokeless and black powder, primers and percussion caps
possessed and lawfully used as a propellant or ignition device in small-arms or
small- arms ammunition.
         E.   Dangerous ordnance that is inoperable or inert and cannot readily
be rendered operable or activated, and that is kept as a trophy, souvenir,
curio or museum piece.
         F.   Any device that is expressly excepted from the definition of a
destructive device pursuant to the Gun Control Act of 1968, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)
(4), as amended, and regulations issued under that Act.
         G.   Any firearm with an overall length of at least 26 inches that is
approved for sale by the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and
Explosives under the “Gun Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921
(a)(3), but that is found by the Bureau not to be regulated under the “National
Firearms Act”, 68A Stat. 725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   (g)   DEADLY WEAPON. Any instrument, device or thing capable of inflicting
death, and designed or specially adapted for use as a weapon, or possessed,
carried or used as a weapon.
   (h)   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound, mixture or device, the primary or
common purpose of which is to function by explosion. EXPLOSIVE includes all
materials that have been classified as division 1.1, division 1.2, division 1.3
or division 1.4 explosives by the United States Department of Transportation in
its regulations and includes but is not limited to dynamite, black powder,
pellet powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps,
safety fuses, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant fuses, instantaneous
fuses, and igniter cords and igniters. EXPLOSIVES does not include FIREWORKS,
as defined in R.C. § 3743.01, or any substance or material otherwise meeting
the definition of EXPLOSIVE set forth in this section that is manufactured,
sold, possessed, transported, stored or used in any activity described in R.C.
§ 3743.80, provided the activity is conducted in accordance with all applicable
laws, rules and regulations, including, but not limited to, the provisions of
R.C. § 3743.80 and the rules of the Fire Marshal adopted pursuant to R.C. §
3737.82.
   (i)   EXPLOSIVE DEVICE. Any device designed or specially adapted to cause
physical harm to persons or property by means of an explosion, and consisting
of an explosive substance or agency and a means to detonate it. EXPLOSIVE
DEVICE includes without limitation any bomb, any explosive demolition device,
any blasting cap or detonator containing an explosive charge and any pressure
vessel that has been knowingly tampered with or arranged so as to explode.
   (j)   FIREARM.
      (1)   Any deadly weapon capable of expelling or propelling one or more
projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible propellant. FIREARM
includes an unloaded firearm, and any firearm that is inoperable but that can
readily be rendered operable.
      (2)   When determining whether a firearm is capable of expelling or
propelling one or more projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible
propellant, the trier of fact may rely upon circumstantial evidence, including,
but not limited to, the representations and actions of the individual
exercising control over the firearm.
   (k)   HANDGUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm that has a short stock and is designed to be held and
fired by the use of a single hand; or
      (2)   Any combination of parts from which a firearm of a type described
in division (1) of this definition can be assembled.
   (l)   INCENDIARY DEVICE. Any firebomb, and any device designed or specially
adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property by means of fire, and
consisting of an incendiary substance or agent and a means to ignite it.
   (m)   MISDEMEANOR PUNISHABLE BY IMPRISONMENT FOR A TERM EXCEEDING ONE YEAR.
The phrase does not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any federal or state offense pertaining to antitrust violations,
unfair trade practices, restraints of trade, or other similar offenses relating
to the regulation of business practices;
      (2)   Any misdemeanor offense punishable by a term of imprisonment of two
years or less.
   (n)   SAWED-OFF FIREARM. A shotgun with a barrel less than 18 inches long,
or a rifle with a barrel less than 16 inches long, or a shotgun or rifle less
than 26 inches long overall. SAWED-OFF FIREARM does not include any firearm
with an overall length of at least 26 inches that is approved for sale by the
Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives under the “Gun
Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(3), but that is found
by the Bureau not to be regulated under the  “National Firearms Act”, 68A Stat.
725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   (o)   SEMI-AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to
fire a single cartridge and automatically chamber a succeeding cartridge ready
to fire, with a single function of the trigger.
   (p)   VALID CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or VALID LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED
HANDGUN. A concealed handgun license that is currently valid, that is not under
a suspension under R.C. § 2923.128(A)(1), under R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a
suspension provision of the state other than this state in which the license
was issued, and that has not been revoked under R.C. § 2923.128(B)(1), under
R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a revocation provision of the state other than this
state in which the license was issued.
   (q)   ZIP-GUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm of crude and extemporized manufacture.
      (2)   Any device, including without limitation a starter’s pistol, not
designed as a firearm, but that is specially adapted for use as a firearm.
      (3)   Any industrial tool, signaling device or safety device, not
designed as a firearm, but that as designed is capable of use as such, when
possessed, carried or used as a firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.11)
§ 549.02 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly carry or have, concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand, any of the following:
      (1)   A deadly weapon other than a handgun;
      (2)   A handgun other than a dangerous ordnance; or
      (3)   A dangerous ordnance.
   (b)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license shall do any
of the following:
      (1)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, before or at the time a law enforcement officer
asks if the person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to disclose
that the person then is carrying a concealed handgun, provided that it is not a
violation of this division if the person fails to disclose that fact to an
officer during the stop and the person already has notified another officer of
that fact during the same stop;
      (2)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and if the
person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to keep the person’s
hands in plain sight at any time after any law enforcement officer begins
approaching the person while stopped and before the law enforcement officer
leaves, unless the failure is pursuant to and in accordance with directions
given by a law enforcement officer;
      (3)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, if the
person is carrying a concealed handgun, and if the person is approached by any
law enforcement officer while stopped, knowingly remove or attempt to remove
the loaded handgun from the holster, pocket or other place in which the person
is carrying it, knowingly grasp or hold the loaded handgun, or knowingly have
contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with the person’s hands or
fingers at any time after the law enforcement officer begins approaching and
before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the person removes, attempts
to remove, grasps, holds or has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and
in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer; or
      (4)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and if the
person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly disregard or fail to comply
with any lawful order of any law enforcement officer given while the person is
stopped, including, but not limited to, a specific order to the person to keep
the person’s hands in plain sight.
   (c)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         A.   An officer, agent or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or to a law enforcement officer, who is authorized to carry
concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry handguns and
is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s or employee’s duties;
         B.   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry
handguns, and who is subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C.
§ 109.801, unless the appointing authority of the person has expressly
specified that the exemption provided in this division (c)(1)B. does not apply
to the person;
         C.   A person’s transportation or storage of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in a motor vehicle for any
lawful purpose if the firearm is not on the actor’s person; or
         D.   A person’s storage or possession of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in the actor’s own home for any
lawful purpose.
      (2)   Division (a)(2) of this section does not apply to any person who
has been issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time of the
alleged carrying or possession of a handgun or who, at the time of the alleged
carrying or possession of a handgun, is an active duty member of the armed
forces of the United States and is carrying a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), unless
the person knowingly is in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
   (d)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (a)(1) of this
section of carrying or having control of a weapon other than a handgun and
other than a dangerous ordnance, that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by
law from having the weapon, and that any of the following applies:
      (1)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in or was going to or from the
actor’s lawful business or occupation, which business or occupation was of a
character or was necessarily carried on in a manner or at a time or place as to
render the actor particularly susceptible to criminal attack, such as would
justify a prudent person in going armed.
      (2)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in a lawful activity and had
reasonable cause to fear a criminal attack upon the actor, a member of the
actor’s family, or the actor’s home, such as would justify a prudent person in
going armed.
      (3)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for any
lawful purpose and while in the actor’s own home.
   (e)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of this section shall
be required to obtain a concealed handgun license as a condition for the
dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to, or
has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (b)(1) of this section as it
existed prior to June 13, 2022, the person may file an application under R.C. §
2953.35 requesting the expungement of the record of conviction.
   (f)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of carrying concealed
weapons. Except as otherwise provided in this division or divisions (f)(2), (f)
(6), and (f)(7) of this section, carrying concealed weapons in violation of
division (a) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Except as
otherwise provided in this division or divisions (f)(2), (f)(6), and (f)(7) of
this section, if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance
or of any offense of violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is
either loaded or for which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the
weapon involved is dangerous ordnance, carrying concealed weapons in violation
of division (a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in divisions (f)(2), (f)(6), and (f)(7)
of this section, if the offense is committed aboard an aircraft, or with
purpose to carry a concealed weapon aboard an aircraft, regardless of the
weapon involved, carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (a) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A person shall not be arrested for a violation of division (a)(2)
of this section solely because the person does not promptly produce a valid
concealed handgun license. If a person is arrested for a violation of division
(a)(2) of this section and is convicted of or pleads guilty to the violation,
the offender shall be punished as follows:
         A.   The offender shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor if both of
the following apply:
            1.   Within ten days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license, which license was valid at the time of the arrest to
the law enforcement agency that employs the arresting officer.
            2.   At the time of the arrest, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         B.   The offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
$500 if all of the following apply:
            1.   The offender previously had been issued a concealed handgun
license, and that license expired within the two years immediately preceding
the arrest.
            2.   Within 45 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license to the law enforcement agency that employed the
arresting officer, and the offender waives in writing the offender’s right to a
speedy trial on the charge of the violation that is provided in R.C. § 2945.71.
            3.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         C.   If divisions (f)(2)A. and (f)(2)B. and (f)(6) of this section do
not apply, the offender shall be punished under division (f)(1) or (f)(7) of
this section.
      (3)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (b)(1) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (b)(2) or (b)
(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(b)(2) or (b)(4) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (b)(2) or (b)(4) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (5)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (b)(3) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (6)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (a)(2) of
this section is an active duty m ember of the armed forces of the United States
and is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), and if at the time of the
violation the person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C. 2923.126
(B), the officer shall not arrest the person for a violation of that division.
If the person is not able to promptly produce a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) and if
the person is not in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the officer shall
issue a citation and the offender shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more
than $500. The citation shall be automatically dismissed and the civil penalty
shall not be assessed if both of the following apply:
         A.   Within ten days after the issuance of the citation, the offender
presents a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), which were both valid at the time of the
issuance of the citation to the law enforcement agency that employs the citing
officer.
         B.   At the time of the citation, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (7)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (a)(2) of
this section is knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B)(5) and is
not authorized to carry a handgun or have a handgun concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand under that division, the penalty shall be as
follows:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person
produces a valid concealed handgun license within ten days after the arrest and
has not previously been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(a)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a minor misdemeanor;
         B.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (a)
(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
         C.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division
(a)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree;
         D.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of
division (a)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or convicted of or pleaded guilty to any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is a
dangerous ordnance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (g)   If a law enforcement officer stops a person to question the person
regarding a possible violation of this section, for a traffic stop, or for any
other law enforcement purpose, if the person surrenders a firearm to the
officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the officer,
and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this section
or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise prohibited by
law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not contraband, the officer
shall return the firearm to the person at the termination of the stop. If a
court orders a law enforcement officer to return a firearm to a person pursuant
to the requirement set forth in this division, R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (h)   For purposes of this section, DEADLY WEAPON or WEAPON does not include
any knife, razor, or cutting instrument if the instrument was not used as a
weapon.
(R.C. § 2923.12)
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed handguns, licensing through County Sheriff, see R.C. §§
2923.124 et seq.
   Concealed carry by a qualifying adult, see R.C. § 2923.111
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
   Possession of firearm in liquor permit premises, felony offense, see R.C. §
2923.121
§ 549.03 USING WEAPONS WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (a)   No person, while under the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse,
shall carry or use any firearm or dangerous ordnance.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using weapons while
intoxicated, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.15)
§ 549.04 IMPROPERLY HANDLING FIREARMS IN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly discharge a firearm while in or on a motor
vehicle.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded firearm in a
motor vehicle in such a manner that the firearm is accessible to the operator
or any passenger without leaving the vehicle.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a firearm in a motor
vehicle, unless the person may lawfully possess that firearm under applicable
law of this state or the United States, the firearm is unloaded, and the
firearm is carried in one of the following ways:
      (1)   In a closed package, box or case.
      (2)   In a compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (3)   In plain sight and secured in a rack or holder made for the
purpose.
      (4)   If the firearm is at least 24 inches in overall length as measured
from the muzzle to the part of the stock furthest from the muzzle and if the
barrel is at least 18 inches in length, either in plain sight with the action
open or the weapon stripped, or, if the firearm is of a type on which the
action will not stay open or which cannot easily be stripped, in plain sight.
   (d)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded handgun in a
motor vehicle if, at the time of that transportation or possession, any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains a concentration of alcohol, a listed controlled substance, or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance prohibited for persons operating a
vehicle, as specified in R.C. § 4511.19(A), regardless of whether the person at
the time of the transportation or possession as described in this division is
the operator of or a passenger in the motor vehicle.
   (e)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license or who is an
active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is carrying a
valid military identification card and documentation of successful completion
of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described
in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), who is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as a result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose or is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.34, and who is transporting or has a
loaded handgun in the motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle in any manner,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Before or at the time a law enforcement officer asks if the person
is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to disclose that the person
then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the motor vehicle, provided that it
is not a violation of this division if the person fails to disclose that fact
to an officer during the stop and the person already has notified another
officer of that fact during the same stop;
      (2)   Before or at the time an employee of the motor carrier enforcement
unit asks if the person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to
disclose that the person then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the
commercial motor vehicle, provided that it is not a violation of this division
if the person fails to disclose that fact to an employee of the unit during the
stop and the person already has notified another employee of the unit of that
fact during the same stop;
      (3)   Knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle while stopped, or
knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in plain sight at any time after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the person while stopped and before
the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the failure is pursuant to and in
accordance with directions given by a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with
the person’s hands or fingers in the motor vehicle at any time after the law
enforcement officer begins approaching and before the law enforcement officer
leaves, unless the person has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and
in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer;
      (5)   Knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any lawful order of any
law enforcement officer given while the motor vehicle is stopped, including but
not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight.
   (f)   (1)   Divisions (a), (b), (c) and (e) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
         A.   An officer, agent or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, when authorized to carry or have
loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles and acting within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s or employee’s duties; or
         B.   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry or have loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles, and who is
subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless
the appointing authority of the person has expressly specified that the
exemption provided in this division (f)(1)B. does not apply to the person.
      (2)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following circumstances apply:
         A.   The person discharges a firearm from a motor vehicle at a coyote
or groundhog, the discharge is not during the deer gun hunting season as set by
the Chief of the Division of Wildlife of the Department of Natural Resources,
and the discharge at the coyote or groundhog, but for the operation of this
section, is lawful.
         B.   The motor vehicle from which the person discharges the firearm is
on real property that is located in an unincorporated area of a township and
that is either zoned for agriculture or is used for agriculture.
         C.   The person owns the real property described in division (f)(2)B.
of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that real
property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is the
spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real property.
         D.   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the following
manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, highway or other public or
private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation; or
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including, but not
limited to, a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (3)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following apply:
         A.   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         B.   The person discharges a firearm at a wild quadruped or game bird
as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 during the open hunting season for the applicable
wild quadruped or game bird.
         C.   The person discharges a firearm from a stationary all-purpose
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 from private or publicly owned lands or
from a motor vehicle that is parked on a road that is owned or administered by
the Division of Wildlife.
         D.   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the following
manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, a highway or other public or
private property that is used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation; or
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including, but not
limited to, a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Divisions (b) and (c) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following circumstances apply:
         A.   At the time of the alleged violation of either of those
divisions, the person is the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle.
         B.   The motor vehicle is on real property that is located in an
unincorporated area of a township and that is either zoned for agriculture or
is used for agriculture.
         C.   The person owns the real property described in division (f)(4)B.
of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that real
property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is the
spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real property.
         D.   The person, prior to arriving at the real property described in
division (f)(4)B. of this section, did not transport or possess a firearm in
the motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (b) or (c) of this section
while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or other public
or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking.
      (5)   Divisions (b) and (c) of this section do not apply to a person who
transports or possesses a handgun in a motor vehicle if, at the time of that
transportation or possession, both of the following apply:
         A.   The person transporting or possessing the handgun has been issued
a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question or the person
is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         B.   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is not
knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (6)   Divisions (b) and (c) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following apply:
         A.   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         B.   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 or a motor vehicle during the open hunting season for a wild
quadruped or game bird.
         C.   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 on private or publicly owned lands or on or in a motor vehicle that
is parked on a road that is owned or administered by the Division of Wildlife.
   (g)   (1)   The affirmative defenses authorized in R.C. § 2923.12(D)(1) and
(D)(2) are affirmative defenses to a charge under division (b) or (c) of this
section that involves a firearm other than a handgun.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (b) or (c)
of this section of improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle that the
actor transported or had the firearm in the motor vehicle for any lawful
purpose and while the motor vehicle was on the actor’s own property, provided
that this affirmative defense is not available unless the person, immediately
prior to arriving at the actor’s own property, did not transport or possess the
firearm in a motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (b) or (c) of
this section while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or
other public or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic.
   (h)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of division (b), (c)
or (d) of this section shall be required to obtain a concealed handgun license
as a condition for the dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   A.   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (e) of this section as it
existed prior to September 30, 2011, and the conduct that was the basis of the
violation no longer would be a violation of division (e) of this section on or
after September 30, 2011, or if a person is convicted of, was convicted of,
pleads guilty to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (e)(1) or
(e)(2) of this section as it existed prior to June 13, 2022, the person may
file an application under R.C. § 2953.35 requesting the expungement of the
record of conviction.
         B.   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to,
or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (b) or (c) of this section as
the division existed prior to September 30, 2011 and if the conduct that was
the basis of the violation no longer would be a violation of division (b) or
(c) of this section on or after September 30, 2011 due to the application of
division (f)(5) of this section as it exists on and after September 30, 2011,
the person may file an application under R.C. § 2953.35 requesting the
expungement of the record of conviction.
   (i)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of improperly handling
firearms in a motor vehicle. A violation of division (a) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division
(c) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of
division (d) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law and, if the loaded handgun is concealed on the person's person, it is
also a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of
division (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (e)(4) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (e)(3) or (e)
(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(e)(3) or (e)(5) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (e)(3) or (e)(5) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation of
division (b) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (j)   If a law enforcement officer stops a motor vehicle for a traffic stop
or any other purpose, if any person in the motor vehicle surrenders a firearm
to the officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the
officer, and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this
section or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise
prohibited by law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not
contraband, the officer shall return the firearm to the person at the
termination of the stop. If a court orders a law enforcement officer to return
a firearm to a person pursuant to the requirement set forth in this division,
R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (k)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   AGRICULTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 519.01.
      (2)   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.25
(A).
      (3)   MOTOR CARRIER ENFORCEMENT UNIT. The Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit
in the Department of Public Safety, Division of State Highway Patrol, that is
created by R.C. § 5503.34.
      (4)   MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET and HIGHWAY. Have the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4511.01.
      (5)   OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.01.
      (6)   TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      (7)   UNLOADED.
         A.   With respect to a firearm other than a firearm described in
division D. of this definition, means that no ammunition is in the firearm in
question, no magazine or speed loader containing ammunition is inserted into
the firearm, and one of the following applies:
            1.   There is no ammunition in a magazine or speed loader that is
in the vehicle in question and that may be used with the firearm in question.
            2.   Any magazine or speed loader that contains ammunition and that
may be used with the firearm in question is stored in a compartment within the
vehicle in question that cannot be accessed without leaving the vehicle or is
stored in a container that provides complete and separate enclosure.
         B.   For the purposes of division A.2. of this definition, a
“container that provides complete and separate enclosure” includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following:
            1.   A package, box, or case with multiple compartments, as long as
the loaded magazine or speed loader and the firearm in question either are in
separate compartments within the package, box, or case, or, if they are in the
same compartment, the magazine or speed loader is contained within a separate
enclosure in that compartment that does not contain the firearm and that closes
using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop closing mechanism, or other
fastener that must be opened to access the contents or the firearm is contained
within a separate enclosure of that nature in that compartment that does not
contain the magazine or speed loader;
            2.   A pocket or other enclosure on the person of the person in
question that closes using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop
closing mechanism, or other fastener that must be opened to access the
contents.
         C.   For the purposes of divisions A. and B. of this definition,
ammunition held in stripper-clips or in en-bloc clips is not considered
ammunition that is loaded into a magazine or speed loader.
         D.   UNLOADED means, with respect to a firearm employing a percussion
cap, flintlock, or other obsolete ignition system, when the weapon is uncapped
or when the priming charge is removed from the pan.
   (l)   Divisions A. and B. of the definition of “unloaded” in division (k) of
this section do not affect the authority of a person who has been issued a
concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question to have one or
more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition anywhere in a vehicle,
without being transported as described in those divisions, as long as no
ammunition is in a firearm, other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as
permitted under any other provision of this chapter. A person who has been
issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question may
have one or more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition anywhere in a
vehicle without further restriction, as long as no ammunition is in a firearm,
other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted under any
provision of this chapter.
(R.C. § 2923.16)
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 549.05 FAILURE TO SECURE DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (a)   No person, in acquiring, possessing, carrying or using any dangerous
ordnance, shall negligently fail to take proper precautions:
      (1)   To secure the dangerous ordnance against theft, or against its
acquisition or use by any unauthorized or incompetent person.
      (2)   To ensure the safety of persons and property.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to a secure
dangerous ordnance, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.19)
§ 549.06 UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS IN WEAPONS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Recklessly sell, lend, give or furnish any firearm to any person
prohibited by R.C. § 2923.13 or § 2923.15, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, from acquiring or using any firearm, or recklessly sell,
lend, give or furnish any dangerous ordnance to any person prohibited by R.C. §
2923.13, § 2923.15 or § 2923.17, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, from acquiring or using any dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   Possess any firearm or dangerous ordnance with purpose to dispose
of it in violation of division (a)(1) of this section;
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b) of this section,
knowingly solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a federally licensed firearms
dealer or private seller to transfer a firearm or ammunition to any person in a
manner prohibited by state or federal law;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b) of this section, with
an intent to deceive, knowingly provide materially false information to a
federally licensed firearms dealer or private seller;
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b) of this section,
knowingly procure, solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a person to act in
violation of division (a)(3) or (a)(4) of this section;
      (6)   When transferring any dangerous ordnance to another, negligently
fail to require the transferee to exhibit the identification, license or permit
showing the transferee to be authorized to acquire dangerous ordnance pursuant
to R.C. § 2923.17, or negligently fail to take a complete record of the
transaction and forthwith forward a copy of the record to the Sheriff of the
county or Safety Director or Police Chief of the municipality where the
transaction takes place; or
      (7)   Knowingly fail to report to law enforcement authorities forthwith
the loss or theft of any firearm or dangerous ordnance in the person’s
possession and under his or her control.
   (b)   Divisions (a)(3), (a)(4), and (a)(5) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who is acting within the scope of the
officer’s duties;
      (2)   A person who is acting in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer described in division (b)(1) of this section.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful transactions in
weapons. A violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), or (a)(5) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A
violation of division (a)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (a)(7) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (d)   As used in this section:
      (1)   AMMUNITION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.401.
      (2)   FEDERALLY LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 5502.63.
      (3)   MATERIALLY FALSE INFORMATION. Information regarding the transfer of
a firearm or ammunition that portrays an illegal transaction as legal or a
legal transaction as illegal.
      (4)   PRIVATE SELLER. A person who sells, offers for sale, or transfers a
firearm or ammunition and who is not a federally licensed firearms dealer.
(R.C. § 2923.20)
§ 549.07 UNDERAGE PURCHASE OF FIREARM OR HANDGUN.
   (a)   No person under 18 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a firearm.
   (b)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a handgun; provided, that this division does not apply to the purchase or
attempted purchase of a handgun by a person 18 years of age or older and under
21 years of age, if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is a law enforcement officer and has received firearms
training approved by the Ohio Peace Officer Training Council or equivalent
firearms training.
      (2)   The person is an active or reserve member of the armed services of
the United States or the Ohio National Guard, or was honorably discharged from
military service in the active or reserve armed services of the United States
or the Ohio National Guard, and the person has received firearms training from
the armed services or the national guard or equivalent firearms training.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of underage
purchase of a firearm, a delinquent act that would be a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law if it could be committed by an adult. Whoever
violates division (b) of this section is guilty of underage purchase of a
handgun, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.211)
§ 549.08 POINTING AND DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (a)   Except as provided for in this section, no person shall discharge any
cannon, rifle, shotgun, revolver, pistol, other firearm or dangerous ordnance
within the city.
   (b)   No person shall, intentionally and without malice, point or aim a
firearm at or toward another.
   (c)   This section shall not prohibit the firing of a military salute or the
firing of weapons by men of the U.S. armed forces acting under military
authority, and shall not apply to law enforcement officials in the performance
of their duties, or to any person in the proper exercise of the right of self
defense or defense of others.
   (d)   This section shall not prohibit the firing of shotguns or other
firearms for the purpose of controlling certain species of birds or other
animals when such shooting or firing is performed in accordance with rules and
regulations established by the City Manager, and when the person who is
shooting shall have in his or her possession a properly executed permit issued
by the Safety Director.
   (e)   This section shall not prohibit the firing within an approved indoor
range or test facility for the purpose of proofing or testing of a firearm
after the manufacturing process when such firing is performed in accordance
with rules and regulations established by the City Manager, and when the person
who is shooting shall have in his or her possession a properly executed permit
issued by the Safety Director.
   (f)   This section shall not prohibit the firing of firearms for ceremonial
or theatrical purposes when such firing is performed in accordance with rules
and regulations established by the City Manager, and when the person who is
shooting shall have in his or her possession a properly executed permit issued
by the Safety Director.
   (g)   Any person denied a permit by the Safety Director pursuant to this
section shall have the right to appeal said denial to City Council. Notice of
such appeal shall be submitted in writing to the Safety Director. A hearing on
such appeal shall be conducted at the next regularly scheduled Council meeting,
or at a Council meeting agreed to by the appealing party.
   (h)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(Ord. 91-104, passed 10-14-1991; Ord. 2011-12, passed 2-14-2011; Ord. 2013-48,
passed 8-12-2013; Ord. 2017-57, passed 4-10-2017; Ord. 2019-148, passed 12-9-
2019)
§ 549.09 THROWING OR PROJECTING MISSILE.
   (a)   Except as provided in this section and § 505.11, no person shall
discharge any air gun, or make use of any sling or arrow, within the corporate
limits of the municipality.
   (b)   No person shall recklessly throw or shoot from a slingshot, B.B. gun,
air gun, bow or other device a pellet, stone, arrow, missile or other similar
substance at or toward a person, house, building, vehicle or other property
which might be injured or damaged thereby, or to strike or wound a person or to
strike property causing injury or damage to any such person or property by the
act.
   (c)   This section does not extend to cases in which slings or arrows are
used in self-defense, in the discharge of official duty or in justifiable
homicide.
   (d)   This section shall not prohibit the firing of B.B. guns for the
purpose of controlling certain species of birds when such shooting or firing is
performed in accordance with the rules and regulations established by the City
Manager, and when the person who is shooting is 18 years of age or older, has
executed a hold harmless agreement, and has in his or her possession a properly
executed permit issued by the Safety Director.
      (1)   Such B.B. gun shall be of the type in which a single action of the
cocking mechanism readies the gun to operate. B.B. or pellet guns of the type
which use a compressed gas propellant or in which a continued pumping action
increases the force with which the gun operates shall not be used.
   (e)   This section shall not apply to competitive sporting events, or
practice/training for such events, where, upon request of the event or
practice/training organizers, the Safety Director or his or her designee has
issued a permit confirming that the proposed site of the competitive event or
practice/training for such event is set up in a manner that would prevent a
person, house, building, vehicle, animal or other property from being injured
or damaged.
   (f)   This section shall not prohibit the shooting of a bow and arrow when
such shooting is performed in accordance with the rules and regulations
established by the City Manger, and when the person who is shooting is 18 years
of age or older, has executed a hold harmless agreement, and has in his or her
possession a properly executed permit issued by the Safety Director.
   (g)   This section does not extend to cases in which BB guns and other air
guns, or slings or arrows, are used in the confines of buildings, provided the
use is under adult supervision.
   (h)   The Safety Director may revoke a permit issued under this section for
any violation of rules and regulations established by the City Manager or any
violation of this section.
   (i)   Any person denied a permit, or who has a permit revoked by the Safety
Director pursuant to this section shall have the right to appeal said denial to
City Council. Notice of such appeal shall be submitted in writing to the Safety
Director. A hearing on such appeal shall be conducted at the next regularly
scheduled Council meeting, or at a Council meeting agreed to by the appealing
party.
   (j)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(Ord. 66-1985, passed 9-9-1985; Ord. 2006-140, passed 11-27-2006; Ord. 2017-57,
passed 4-10-2017; Ord. 2017-73, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 549.10 POSSESSION OF AN OBJECT INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A FIREARM IN A SCHOOL
SAFETY ZONE.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly possess an object in a school safety zone if
both of the following apply:
      (1)   The object is indistinguishable from a firearm, whether or not the
object is capable of being fired.
      (2)   The person indicates that the person possesses the object and that
it is a firearm, or the person knowingly displays or brandishes the object and
indicates that it is a firearm.
   (b)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         A.   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States who is authorized to carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance
and is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         B.   A law enforcement officer who is authorized to carry deadly
weapons or dangerous ordnance;
         C.   A security officer employed by a board of education or governing
body of a school during the time that the security officer is on duty pursuant
to that contract of employment;
         D.   1.   Any person not described in divisions (b)(1)A. to (b)(1)C.
of this section who has written authorization from the board of education or
governing body of a school to convey deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance into
a school safety zone or to possess a deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance in a
school safety zone and who conveys or possesses the deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance in accordance with that authorization, provided both of the following
apply:
               a.   Either the person has successfully completed the
curriculum, instruction, and training established under R.C. § 5502.703, or the
person has received a certificate of having satisfactorily completed an
approved basic peace officer training program or is a law enforcement officer;
               b.   The board or governing body has notified the public, by
whatever means the affected school regularly communicates with the public, that
the board or governing body has authorized one or more persons to go armed
within a school operated by the board or governing authority.
            2.   A district board or school governing body that authorizes a
person under division (b)(1)D. of this section shall require that person to
submit to an annual criminal records check conducted in the same manner as R.C.
§ 3319.39 or R.C. § 3319.391.
         E.   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance, and who is subject to and in
compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless the appointing
authority of the person has expressly specified that the exemption provided in
division (b)(1)E. of this section does not apply to the person.
      (2)   This section does not apply to premises upon which home schooling
is conducted. This section also does not apply to a school administrator,
teacher or employee who possesses an object that is indistinguishable from a
firearm for legitimate school purposes during the course of employment, a
student who uses an object that is indistinguishable from a firearm under the
direction of a school administrator, teacher or employee, or any other person
who, with the express prior approval of a school administrator, possesses an
object that is indistinguishable from a firearm for a legitimate purpose,
including the use of the object in a ceremonial activity, a play, re-enactment
or other dramatic presentation, school safety training, or a ROTC activity or
another similar use of the object.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if, at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the
handgun, all of the following apply:
         A.   The person does not enter into a school building or onto school
premises and is not at a school activity.
         B.   The person has been issued a concealed handgun license that is
valid at the time of the conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         C.   The person is in the school safety zone in accordance with 18
U.S.C. § 922(q)(2)(B).
         D.   The person is not knowingly in a place described in R.C. §
2923.126(B)(1) or (B)(3) to (8).
      (4)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the handgun
all of the following apply:
         A.   The person has been issued a concealed handgun license that is
valid at the time of the conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         B.   The person leaves the handgun in a motor vehicle.
         C.   The handgun does not leave the motor vehicle.
         D.   If the person exits the motor vehicle, the person locks the motor
vehicle.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal possession of an
object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, illegal possession of an object
indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of this section, illegal possession of an object indistinguishable from a
firearm in a school safety zone is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (d)   (1)   In addition to any other penalty imposed upon a person who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, and subject to
division (d)(2) of this section, if the offender has not attained 19 years of
age, regardless of whether the offender is attending or is enrolled in a school
operated by a board of education or for which the Director of Education and
Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s probationary
driver’s license, restricted license, driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit or probationary commercial driver’s
license that then is in effect from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4)
and shall deny the offender the issuance of any permit or license of that type
during the period of the suspension. If the offender is not a resident of this
state, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the nonresident
operating privilege of the offender from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(4).
      (2)   If the offender shows good cause why the court should not suspend
one of the types of licenses, permits or privileges specified in division (d)
(1) of this section or deny the issuance of one of the temporary instruction
permits specified in division (d)(1) of this section, the court in its
discretion may choose not to impose the suspension, revocation or denial
required in division (d)(1) of this section, but the court, in its discretion,
instead may require the offender to perform community service for a number of
hours determined by the court.
   (e)   As used in this section, OBJECT THAT IS INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A
FIREARM means an object made, constructed or altered so that, to a reasonable
person without specialized training in firearms, the object appears to be a
firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.122(C) - (G))
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance in a school
safety zone, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122(A), (B)
§ 549.11 BLASTING PERMIT.
   (a)   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the municipality without
making application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation and receiving a permit to blast from the City Manager. The
Manager or other proper administrative officer, before granting the permit, may
require the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the municipality and all
other persons against injury or damages which might result from the proposed
blasting.
(Ord. 2-1969, passed 3-10-1969)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 549.12 CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSES: POSSESSION OF A REVOKED OR SUSPENDED
LICENSE; ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS; POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING POSSESSION.
   (a)   Possession of a revoked or suspended concealed handgun license.
      (1)   No person, except in the performance of official duties, shall
possess a concealed handgun license that was issued and that has been revoked
or suspended.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (a) is guilty of possessing a
revoked or suspended concealed handgun license, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 2923.1211(B), (C))
   (b)   Additional restrictions. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.126:
      (1)   A concealed handgun license that is issued under R.C. § 2923.125
shall expire five years after the date of issuance. A licensee who has been
issued a license under that section shall be granted a grace period of 30 days
after the licensee’s license expires during which the licensee’s license
remains valid. Except as provided in divisions (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this
section, a licensee who has been issued a concealed handgun license under R.C.
§ 2923.125 or 2923.1213 may carry a concealed handgun anywhere in this state if
the license is valid when the licensee is in actual possession of a concealed
handgun. The licensee shall give notice of any change in the licensee’s
residence address to the sheriff who issued the license within 45 days after
that change.
      (2)   A valid concealed handgun license does not authorize the licensee
to carry a concealed handgun in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.12(B)
or in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.16. A valid license does not
authorize the licensee to carry a concealed handgun into any of the following
places:
         A.   A police station, sheriff’s office, or state highway patrol
station, premises controlled by the bureau of criminal identification and
investigation; a state correctional institution, jail, workhouse, or other
detention facility; any area of an airport passenger terminal that is beyond a
passenger or property screening checkpoint or to which access is restricted
through security measures by the airport authority or a public agency; or an
institution that is maintained, operated, managed, and governed pursuant to
R.C. § 5119.14(A) or R.C. § 5123.03(A)(1);
         B.   A school safety zone if the licensee’s carrying the concealed
handgun is in violation of R.C. § 2923.122;
         C.   A courthouse or another building or structure in which a
courtroom is located if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun is in
violation of R.C. § 2923.123;
         D.   Any premises or open air arena for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303, if the licensee’s carrying the concealed
handgun is in violation of R.C. § 2923.121;
         E.   Any premises owned or leased by any public or private college,
university or other institution of higher education, unless the handgun is in a
locked motor vehicle or the licensee is in the immediate process of placing the
handgun in a locked motor vehicle or unless the licensee is carrying the
concealed handgun pursuant to a written policy, rule, or other authorization
that is adopted by the institution’s board of trustees or other governing body
and that authorizes specific individuals or classes of individuals to carry a
concealed handgun on the premises;
         F.   Any church, synagogue, mosque or other place of worship, unless
the church, synagogue, mosque or other place of worship posts or permits
otherwise;
         G.   Any building that is a government facility of this state or a
political subdivision of this state and that is not a building that is used
primarily as a shelter, restroom, parking facility for motor vehicles, or rest
facility and is not a courthouse or other building or structure in which a
courtroom is located that is subject to division (b)(2)C. of this section,
unless the governing body with authority over the building has enacted a
statute, ordinance, or policy that permits a licensee to carry a concealed
handgun into the building; or
         H.   A place in which federal law prohibits the carrying of handguns.
      (3)   A.   Nothing in this division (b) shall negate or restrict a rule,
policy or practice of a private employer that is not a private college,
university, or other institution of higher education concerning or prohibiting
the presence of firearms on the private employer’s premises or property,
including motor vehicles owned by the private employer. Nothing in this
division (b) shall require a private employer of that nature to adopt a rule,
policy or practice concerning or prohibiting the presence of firearms on the
private employer’s premises or property, including motor vehicles owned by the
private employer.
         B.   1.   A private employer shall be immune from liability in a civil
action for any injury, death or loss to person or property that allegedly was
caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the premises or
property of the private employer, including motor vehicles owned by the private
employer, unless the private employer acted with malicious purpose. A private
employer is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury, death or
loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to the
private employer’s decision to permit a licensee to bring, or prohibit a
licensee from bringing, a handgun onto the premises or property of the private
employer.
            2.   A political subdivision shall be immune from liability in a
civil action, to the extent and in the manner provided in R.C. Chapter 2744,
for any injury, death or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused
by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto any premises or property
owned, leased or otherwise under the control of the political subdivision. As
used in this division, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2744.01.
            3.   An institution of higher education shall be immune from
liability in a civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or
property that allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a
handgun onto the premises of the institution, including motor vehicles owned by
the institution, unless the institution acted with malicious purpose. An
institution of higher education is immune from liability in a civil action for
any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by
or related to the institution’s decision to permit a licensee or class of
licensees to bring a handgun onto the premises of the institution.
            4.   A nonprofit corporation shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises of the nonprofit corporation, including any motor vehicle owned by the
nonprofit corporation, or to any event organized by the nonprofit corporation,
unless the nonprofit corporation acted with malicious purpose. A nonprofit
corporation is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury, death,
or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to the
nonprofit corporation's decision to permit a licensee to bring a handgun onto
the premises of the nonprofit corporation or to any event organized by the
nonprofit corporation.
         C.   1.   a.    Except as provided in division (b)(3)C.2. of this
section and R.C. § 2923.1214, the owner or person in control of private land or
premises, and a private person or entity leasing land or premises owned by the
state, the United States, or a political subdivision of the state or the United
States, may post a sign in a conspicuous location on that land or on those
premises prohibiting persons from carrying firearms or concealed firearms on or
onto that land or those premises. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, a person who knowingly violates a posted prohibition of that nature
is guilty of criminal trespass in violation of R.C. § 2911.21(A)(4) and is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If a person knowingly violates a
posted prohibition of that nature and the posted land or premises primarily was
a parking lot or other parking facility, the person is not guilty of criminal
trespass under R.C. § 2911.21 or under any other criminal law of this state or
criminal law, ordinance, or resolution of a political subdivision of this
state, and instead is subject only to a civil cause of action for trespass
based on the violation.
               b.   If a person knowingly violates a posted prohibition of the
nature described in this division and the posted land or premises is a child
care center, type A family child care home, or type B family child care home,
unless the person is a licensee who resides in a type A family child care home
or type B family child care home, the person is guilty of aggravated trespass
in violation of R.C. § 2911.211. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person
previously has been convicted of a violation of this division or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is
dangerous ordnance, the offender is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
            2.   A landlord may not prohibit or restrict a tenant who is a
licensee and who on or after September 9, 2008 enters into a rental agreement
with the landlord for the use of residential premises, and the tenant’s guest
while the tenant is present, from lawfully carrying or possessing a handgun on
those residential premises.
            3.   As used in division (b)(3)C. of this section:
               a.    RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5321.01, except RESIDENTIAL PREMISES does not include a dwelling unit that is
owned or operated by a college or university.
               b.    LANDLORD, TENANT, and RENTAL AGREE- MENT. Have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 5321.01.
      (4)   A person who holds a valid concealed handgun license issued by
another state that is recognized by the Attorney General pursuant to a
reciprocity agreement entered into pursuant to R.C. § 109.69 or a person who
holds a valid concealed handgun license under the circumstances described in
R.C. § 109.69(B) has the same right to carry a concealed handgun in this state
as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license under R.C. § 2923.125
and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a person who has been
issued a license under that section that is valid at the time in question.
      (5)   A.   A peace officer has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125, provided that the officer when carrying a concealed
handgun under authority of this division is carrying validating identification.
For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a peace officer shall be
considered to be a licensee in this state.
         B.   An active duty member of the armed forces of the United States
who is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions as
specified in this division (B).
         C.   A tactical medical professional who is qualified to carry
firearms while on duty under R.C. § 109.771 has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125.
      (6)   A.   A qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired
peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (b)(6)B. of this
section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to
division (b)(6)C. of this section has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a
person who has been issued a license issued under that section that is valid at
the time in question. For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a
qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired peace officer
identification card issued pursuant to division (b)(6)B. of this section and a
valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to division (b)
(6)C. of this section shall be considered to be a licensee in this state.
         B.   1.   Each public agency of this state or of a political
subdivision of this state that is served by one or more peace officers shall
issue a retired peace officer identification card to any person who retired
from service as a peace officer with that agency, if the issuance is in
accordance with the agency’s policies and procedures and if the person, with
respect to the person’s service with that agency, satisfies all of the
following:
               a.   The person retired in good standing from service as a peace
officer with the public agency, and the retirement was not for reasons of
mental instability.
               b.    Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was authorized to engage in or supervise the prevention,
detection, investigation or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person
for, any violation of law and the person had statutory powers of arrest.
               c.   At the time of the person’s retirement as a peace officer
with that agency, the person was trained and qualified to carry firearms in the
performance of the peace officer’s duties.
               d.    Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was regularly employed as a peace officer for an aggregate
of 15 years or more, or, in the alternative, the person retired from service as
a peace officer with that agency, after completing any applicable probationary
period of that service, due to a service-connected disability, as determined by
the agency.
            2.   A retired peace officer identification card issued to a person
under division (b)(6)B.1. of this section shall identify the person by name,
contain a photograph of the person, identify the public agency of this state or
of the political subdivision of this state from which the person retired as a
peace officer and that is issuing the identification card, and specify that the
person retired in good standing from service as a peace officer with the
issuing public agency and satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (b)
(6)B.1.a. to (b)(6)B.1.d. of this section. In addition to the required content
specified in this division, a retired peace officer identification card issued
to a person under division (b)(6)B.1. of this section may include the firearms
requalification certification described in division (b)(6)C. of this section,
and if the identification card includes that certification, the identification
card shall serve as the firearms requalification certification for the retired
peace officer. If the issuing public agency issues credentials to active law
enforcement officers who serve the agency, the agency may comply with division
(b)(6)B.1. of this section by issuing the same credentials to persons who
retired from service as a peace officer with the agency and who satisfy the
criteria set forth in divisions (b)(6)B.1.a. to (b)(6)B.1.d. of this section,
provided that the credentials so issued to retired peace officers are stamped
with the word “RETIRED.”
            3.   A public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of
this state may charge persons who retired from service as a peace officer with
the agency a reasonable fee for issuing to the person a retired peace officer
identification card pursuant to division (b)(6)B.1. of this section.
         C.   1.   If a person retired from service as a peace officer with a
public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of this state and the
person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (b)(6)B.1.a. to (b)
(6)B.1.d. of this section, the public agency may provide the retired peace
officer with the opportunity to attend a firearms requalification program that
is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required under R.C. §
109.801. The retired peace officer may be required to pay the cost of the
course.
            2.   If a retired peace officer who satisfies the criteria set
forth in divisions (b)(6)B.1.a. to (b)(6)B.1.d. of this section attends a
firearms requalification program that is approved for purposes of firearms
requalification required under R.C. § 109.801, the retired peace officer’s
successful completion of the firearms requalification program requalifies the
retired peace officer for purposes of division (b)(6) of this section for five
years from the date on which the program was successfully completed, and the
requalification is valid during that five-year period. If a retired peace
officer who satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (b)(6)B.1.a. to (b)
(6)B.1.d. of this section satisfactorily completes such a firearms
requalification program, the retired peace officer shall be issued a firearms
requalification certification that identifies the retired peace officer by
name, identifies the entity that taught the program, specifies that the retired
peace officer successfully completed the program, specifies the date on which
the course was successfully completed, and specifies that the requalification
is valid for five years from that date of successful completion. The firearms
requalification certification for a retired peace officer may be included in
the retired peace officer identification card issued to the retired peace
officer under division (b)(6)B. of this section.
            3.   A retired peace officer who attends a firearms requalification
program that is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required
under R.C. § 109.801 may be required to pay the cost of the program.
      (7)   For the purpose of division (b) of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         A.   GOVERNING BODY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 154.01.
         B.   GOVERNMENT FACILITY OF THIS STATE OR A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF
THIS STATE. Any of the following:
            1.   A building or part of a building that is owned or leased by
the government of this state or a political subdivision of this state and where
employees of the government of this state or the political subdivision
regularly are present for the purpose of performing their official duties as
employees of the state or political subdivision; or
            2.   The office of a Deputy Registrar serving pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 4503 that is used to perform deputy registrar functions.
         C.   NONPROFIT CORPORATION. Means any private organization that is
exempt from federal income taxation pursuant to subsection 501(a) and described
in subsection 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         D.   QUALIFIED RETIRED PEACE OFFICER. A person who satisfies all of
the following:
            1.   The person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (b)
(6)B.1.a. to (b)(6)B.1.d. of this section.
            2.   The person is not under the influence of alcohol or another
intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance.
            3.   The person is not prohibited by federal law from receiving
firearms.
         E.   RETIRED PEACE OFFICER IDENTIFICATION CARD. An identification card
that is issued pursuant to division (b)(6)B. of this section to a person who is
a retired peace officer.
         F.   TACTICAL MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
109.71.
         G.   VALIDATING IDENTIFICATION. Photographic identification issued by
the agency for which an individual serves as a peace officer that identifies
the individual as a peace officer of the agency.
(R.C. § 2923.126)
   (c)   Posting of signs prohibiting possession. Each person, board, or entity
that owns or controls any place or premises identified in R.C. § 2923.126(B) as
a place into which a valid license does not authorize the licensee to carry a
concealed handgun, or a designee of such a person, board, or entity, shall post
in the following one or more conspicuous locations in the premises a sign that
contains a statement in substantially the following form: “Unless otherwise
authorized by law, pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code, no person shall knowingly
possess, have under the person’s control, convey, or attempt to convey a deadly
weapon or dangerous ordnance onto these premises.”
(R.C. § 2923.1212)
§ 549.13 DEFACED FIREARMS.
   (a)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Change, alter, remove or obliterate the name of the manufacturer,
model, manufacturer’s serial number or other mark of identification on a
firearm.
      (2)   Possess a firearm knowing or having reasonable cause to believe
that the name of the manufacturer, model, manufacturer’s serial number or other
mark of identification on the firearm has been changed, altered, removed or
obliterated.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a)(1) of this section is guilty of
defacing identification marks of a firearm. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, defacing identification marks of a firearm is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (a)(1) of this section, defacing
identification marks of a firearm is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(2) of this section is guilty of
possessing a defaced firearm. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
possessing a defaced firearm is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (a)(2) of this section, possessing a defaced firearm is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (c)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to any firearm on which no
manufacturer’s serial number was inscribed at the time of its manufacture.
(R.C. § 2923.201)
§ 549.14 POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPON WHILE UNDER DETENTION.
   (a)   DETENTION and DETENTION FACILITY have the same meanings as in R.C. §
2921.01.
   (b)   No person under detention at a detention facility shall possess a
deadly weapon.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possession of a deadly
weapon while under detention.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(2) of this section,
possession of a deadly weapon while under detention is a felony to be
prosecuted under state law.
      (2)   If the offender, at the time of the commission of the offense, was
under detention as an alleged or adjudicated delinquent child or unruly child
and if at the time the offender commits the act for which the offender was
under detention it would not be a felony if committed by an adult, possession
of a deadly weapon while under detention is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.131)
Statutory reference:
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offenses, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 549.15 LICENSE OR PERMIT TO POSSESS DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (a)   Upon application to the Sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business, and upon payment of the fee specified
in division (b) of this section, a license or temporary permit shall be issued
to qualified applicants to acquire, possess, carry or use a dangerous ordnance
for the following purposes:
      (1)   Contractors, wreckers, quarriers, mine operators and other persons
regularly employing explosives in the course of a legitimate business, with
respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired, possessed, carried or
used in the course of the business.
      (2)   Farmers, with respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired,
possessed, carried or used for agricultural purposes on lands farmed by them.
      (3)   Scientists, engineers and instructors, with respect to a dangerous
ordnance acquired, possessed, carried or used in the course of bona fide
research or instruction.
      (4)   Financial institutions and armored car company guards, with respect
to automatic firearms lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or used by any such
person while acting within the scope of the person’s duties.
      (5)   In the discretion of the issuing authority, any responsible person,
with respect to a dangerous ordnance lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or
used for a legitimate research, scientific, educational, industrial or other
proper purpose.
   (b)   Application for a license or temporary permit under this section shall
be in writing under oath to the Sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business. The application shall be accompanied
by an application fee of $50 when the application is for a license, and an
application fee of $5 when the application is for a temporary permit. The fees
shall be paid into the General Revenue Fund of the county or municipality. The
application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, age, address, occupation and business address of the
applicant, if the applicant is a natural person, or the name, address and
principal place of business of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation.
      (2)   A description of the dangerous ordnance for which a permit is
requested.
      (3)   A description of the places where and the manner in which the
dangerous ordnance is to be kept, carried and used.
      (4)   A statement of the purposes for which the dangerous ordnance is to
be acquired, possessed, carried or used.
      (5)   Any other information as the issuing authority may require in
giving effect to this section.
   (c)   Upon investigation, the issuing authority shall issue a license or
temporary permit only if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicant is not otherwise prohibited by law from acquiring,
having, carrying or using a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The applicant is 21 years of age or over, if the applicant is a
natural person.
      (3)   It appears that the applicant has sufficient competence to safely
acquire, possess, carry or use the dangerous ordnance, and that proper
precautions will be taken to protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and
ensure the safety of persons and property.
      (4)   It appears that the dangerous ordnance will be lawfully acquired,
possessed, carried and used by the applicant for a legitimate purpose.
   (d)   The license or temporary permit shall identify the person to whom it
is issued, identify the dangerous ordnance involved and state the purposes for
which the license or temporary permit is issued, state the expiration date, if
any, and list the restrictions on the acquisition, possession, carriage or use
of the dangerous ordnance as the issuing authority considers advisable to
protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and ensure the safety of persons
and property.
   (e)   A temporary permit shall be issued for the casual use of explosives
and explosive devices, and other consumable dangerous ordnance, and shall
expire within 30 days of its issuance. A license shall be issued for the
regular use of consumable dangerous ordnance, or for any non-consumable
dangerous ordnance, which license need not specify an expiration date, but the
issuing authority may specify such expiration date, not earlier than one year
from the date of issuance, as it considers advisable in view of the nature of
the dangerous ordnance and the purposes for which the license is issued.
   (f)   The dangerous ordnance specified in a license or temporary permit may
be obtained by the holder anywhere in the state. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.18(F),
the holder of a license may use the dangerous ordnance anywhere in the state.
The holder of a temporary permit may use the dangerous ordnance only within the
territorial jurisdiction of the issuing authority.
   (g)   The issuing authority shall forward to the State Fire Marshal a copy
of each license or temporary permit issued pursuant to this section, and a copy
of each record of a transaction in a dangerous ordnance and of each report of a
lost or stolen dangerous ordnance, given to the local law enforcement authority
as required by R.C. § 2923.20(A)(6) and (A)(7) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. The State Fire Marshal will keep a permanent file of all
licenses and temporary permits issued pursuant to this section, and of all
records of transactions in, and losses or thefts of a dangerous ordnance
forwarded by local law enforcement authorities pursuant to this section.
(R.C. § 2923.18)
§ 549.16 RESERVED.
§ 549.17 DISCHARGE OF A FIREARM ON OR NEAR PROHIBITED PREMISES.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Without permission from the proper officials and subject to
division (b)(1) of this section, discharge a firearm upon or over a cemetery or
within 100 yards of a cemetery;
      (2)   Subject to division (b)(2) of this section, discharge of a firearm
on a lawn, park, pleasure ground, orchard or other ground appurtenant to a
schoolhouse, church or inhabited dwelling, the property of another or a
charitable institution; or
      (3)   Discharge a firearm upon or over a public road or highway.
   (b)   (1)   Division (a)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
while on the person’s own land, discharges a firearm.
      (2)   Division (a)(2) of this section does not apply to a person who owns
any type of property described in that division and who, while on the person’s
own enclosure, discharges a firearm.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of discharge
of a firearm on or near prohibited premises. A violation of division (a)(1) or
(a)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of
division (a)(3) of this section shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(2) of this section, a
violation of division (a)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   If the violation created a substantial risk of physical harm to any
person, caused serious physical harm to property, caused physical harm to any
person, or caused serious physical harm to any person, a violation of division
(a)(3) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.162)
§ 549.18 ENDANGERING AIRCRAFT AND AIRPORT OPERATIONS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   AIR GUN. A hand pistol or rifle that propels its projectile by
means of releasing compressed air, carbon dioxide or other gas.
      (2)   AIRPORT OPERATIONAL SURFACE. Any surface of land or water that is
developed, posted or marked so as to give an observer reasonable notice that
the surface is designed and developed for the purpose of storing, parking,
taxiing or operating aircraft, or any surface of land or water that is actually
being used for any of those purposes.
      (3)   FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
      (4)   SPRING-OPERATED GUN. A hand pistol or rifle that propels a
projectile not less than four or more than five millimeters in diameter by
means of a spring.
   (b)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly throw an object at, or drop an object upon, any moving
aircraft.
      (2)   Knowingly shoot with a bow and arrow, or knowingly discharge a
firearm, air gun or spring-operated gun, at or toward any aircraft.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly shoot with a bow and arrow, or
shall knowingly or recklessly discharge a firearm, air gun or spring- operated
gun, upon or over any airport operational surface. This division does not apply
to the following:
      (1)   An officer, agent or employee of this or any other state or of the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, authorized to discharge firearms
and acting within the scope of his or her duties.
      (2)   A person who, with the consent of the owner or operator of the
airport operational surface or the authorized agent of either, is lawfully
engaged in any hunting or sporting activity or is otherwise lawfully
discharging a firearm.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of endangering
aircraft, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation creates any risk
of physical harm to any person, or if the aircraft that is the subject of the
violation is occupied, endangering aircraft is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (e)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of endangering
airport operations, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person or substantial risk of serious
harm to any person, endangering airport operations is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. In addition to any other penalty or sanction
imposed for the violation, the hunting license or permit of a person who
violates division (c) of this section while hunting shall be suspended or
revoked pursuant to R.C. § 1533.68.
(R.C. § 2909.08(A) - (E))
§ 549.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.
PART SEVEN: BUSINESS REGULATION CODE
         Chap.
707. Transient Vendor Regulations
         Chap.
709. Precious Metals and Gem Dealers
         Chap.
711. Commercial Amusements
         Chap.
715. Public Picnics and Amusements
         Chap.
717. Taxicabs
         Chap.
721. Cable Television Rates
         Chap.
723. Sexually Oriented Businesses
         Chap.
725. Sweepstakes/Internet Cafes
         Chap.
727. Massage Establishments
CHAPTER 707: TRANSIENT VENDOR REGULATIONS
Section
707.01   Definitions
707.02   Tax exempt entity notice
707.03   Exclusions
707.04   Registration
707.05   Registration when multiple employees involved
707.06   Registration fee and period
707.07   Manner of solicitation
707.08   Hours of solicitation
707.09   Proof of compliance
707.10   Revocation of registration
707.11   Entry upon premises unlawful
707.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Littering, see §
521.08
   Trespassing, see §
541.05
Statutory reference:
   Charitable solicitations, see R.C. Ch. 1716
   Frozen desserts, see R.C. §§ 3717.51 et seq.
   Home solicitation sales, see R.C. §§ 1345.21 et seq.
   Power to inspect food products, see R.C. § 715.46
   Power to regulate, see R.C. §§ 715.61 et seq.
§ 707.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER. Any person who attempts to make personal contact with a resident
at his or her residence without prior specific invitation or appointment from
the resident, for the primary purpose of:
      (1)   Attempting to enlist support for or against a particular religion,
philosophy, ideology, political party, issue, or candidate, even if incidental
to the purpose the canvasser accepts the donation of money for or against the
cause; or
      (2)   Distributing a handbill or flyer advertising a non-commercial event
or service.
   CITY. The City of Mason, Ohio.
   GOODS. Goods, wares, services, merchandise, periodicals, and other articles
or publications.
   TRANSIENT VENDOR. Any person who opens a temporary place of business for the
sale of goods or who, on the streets or while traveling around the city, sells,
offers for sale, or solicits orders for future delivery of goods where payment
is required prior to the delivery of the goods, or attempts to arrange an
appointment for a future estimate or sales call. TRANSIENT VENDOR does not
include any person who represents any entity exempted from taxation under R.C.
§ 5709.04 and that provides notice in accordance with §
707.02 below.
(Ord. 2007-76, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 707.02 TAX EXEMPT ENTITY NOTICE.
   Any person who represents an entity exempted from taxation under R.C. §
5709.04 that notifies the City Police Department that its representatives are
present in the city for the purpose of selling, offering for sale, or
soliciting orders for future delivery of goods or attempting to arrange an
appointment for a future estimate or sales call shall be exempt from the
transient vendor regulations herein.
(Ord. 2007-76, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 707.03 EXCLUSIONS.
   Transient vendor does not include and these regulations do not apply to:
   (a)   Any person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4707;
   (b)   Any person invited by an owner or tenant to visit the owner’s or
tenant’s premises to sell, offer for sale, or solicit orders for future
delivery of goods;
   (c)   Any person who is only seeking donations and is not selling, offering
or soliciting orders for goods; or
   (d)   Any person who is only collecting money for goods previously ordered
or sold.
(Ord. 2007-76, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 707.04 REGISTRATION.
   All transient vendors shall register with the City Police Department prior
to conducting any business in the city. Registration shall be made on a form
provided by the City Police Department. All information required shall be
supplied by the vendor prior to acceptance of the registration. At the time of
registration, each transient vendor shall provide a copy of a valid, current
vendor license or tax identification certificate.
(Ord. 2007-76, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 707.05 REGISTRATION WHEN MULTIPLE EMPLOYEES INVOLVED.
   In the event that a sole proprietorship, partnership, limited liability
company, corporation or other entity registers as a transient vendor, and such
business entity has employees, only one permit shall be required of the
business entity at each location, which shall cover all employees of the
business entity at a single location, provided that each employee carries
identification that they are employed by the business entity, such
identification specifically refers to the transient vendor registration number
issued by the city to the business entity, and each employee has been subjected
to the criminal background check that is required as part of the registration
process. Each business location shall require a separate registration.
(Ord. 2007-76, passed 5-21-2007; Am. Ord. 2011-11, passed 2-14-2011)
§ 707.06 REGISTRATION FEE AND PERIOD.
   The administrative fee for each registration shall be as established and set
forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven, Chapter 205 of these
codified ordinances. In addition, an administrative fee shall be assessed for
each individual employee of the business entity subject to the criminal
background check required as part of the registration process, and shall be as
established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. Each registration shall be valid for
a period of one year.
(Ord. 2007-76, passed 5-21-2007; Am. Ord. 2011-11, passed 2-14-2011)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 707.07 MANNER OF SOLICITATION.
   No transient vendor shall conduct public solicitation in the city in a
manner that their conduct is contrary to the public interest. No solicitation
tactics shall be employed which are coercive, abusive or misleading. No effort
may be made by any transient vendor to defraud any individual through the
solicitation process. Except as otherwise approved by the City Police
Department, no sales or solicitation shall be conducted in the right-of-way of
any public road.
(Ord. 2007-76, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 707.08 HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   Door to door solicitation shall be made only between the hours of 9:00 a.m.
and 8:00 p.m. during the months of April through October, and 9:00 a.m. to 6:00
p.m. during the months of November through March.
(Ord. 2007-76, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 707.09 PROOF OF COMPLIANCE.
   Each transient vendor shall carry on his or her person a copy of the
registration issued by the city at all times while selling or traveling about
the city for the purposes of selling or soliciting orders. Individuals may not
solicit as a team using another person’s registration.
(Ord. 2007-76, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 707.10 REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION.
   A transient vendor registration may be revoked by the Chief of Police for
any of the following causes:
   (a)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements contained in the
registration application or in the course of carrying on sales solicitations;
   (b)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter; or
   (c)   Conducting business in an unlawful manner, or in a manner as to
constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
(Ord. 2007-76, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 707.11 ENTRY UPON PREMISES UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether registered or unregistered,
while conducting the business of a transient vendor, canvasser, or any other
business solicitation, to enter upon any residential premises in the city where
the owner, occupant, or person legally in charge of the premises has posted, at
the entry to the premises, or at the entry to the principal building on the
premises, a sign bearing the words “No Solicitors” or words of similar import.
(Ord. 2007-76, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 707.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a minor misdemeanor subject to the maximum fine allowed by law.
   (b)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of any provision of this chapter,
the offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 2007-76, passed 5-21-2007)
CHAPTER 709: PRECIOUS METALS AND GEM DEALERS
Section
709.01   Definitions
709.02   Exclusions
709.03   License required
709.04   License application; fee
709.05   Record of purchases
709.06   Reporting of purchases
709.07   Purchase from minors prohibited
709.08   Required retention period for licensed dealers
709.09   Required retention period for pawnbrokers
709.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Receiving stolen property, see §
545.18
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate, see R.C. § 715.61
   License revocation, see R.C. § 2961.03
   Pawnbrokers, see R.C. Ch. 4727
   Daily report to Police Department, see R.C. § 4727.09
   Secondhand dealers, see R.C. Ch. 4737
§ 709.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of the Mason Police Department or his or her
designee.
   GEM. Coral, diamond, emerald, pearl, ruby, sapphire or any decorative
mineral of high value.
   PRECIOUS METAL. Gold, silver or platinum in any form.
   PRECIOUS METAL AND GEM DEALER. Any person, firm, partnership or corporation
engaged in the business of purchasing personal property made of or containing
precious metal or gems for the purpose of reselling these items in any form.
(Ord. 82-1981, passed 10-26-1981)
§ 709.02 EXCLUSIONS.
   (a)   Only §§
709.09 and
709.99 of this chapter, and no other section, shall apply to any person, firm,
partnership or corporation licensed as a pawnbroker under R.C. Chapter 4727.
   (b)   Sections
709.05,
709.06,
709.07,
709.08 and
709.09 of this chapter shall not apply to the purchase from any person, firm,
partnership or corporation regularly engaged in the business of selling
precious metals or gems at retail or wholesale, or to the purchase of one
dealer from another if the person, partnership, firm or corporation at the time
of purchase provides each purchaser with a bill of sale or other written
evidence of title to the precious metal or gems.
   (c)   Sections
709.03 and
709.04 shall not apply to any person, firm, partnership or corporation
purchasing precious metal and gems exclusively in the transactions specified in
division (b) hereof.
(Ord. 82-1981, passed 10-26-1981)
§ 709.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, partnership or corporation shall engage in the business of
purchasing personal property made of or containing precious metals or gems for
the purpose of reselling these items in any form without first having obtained
a precious metal and gem dealer’s license as provided in §
709.04.
(Ord. 82-1981, passed 10-26-1981)
§ 709.04 LICENSE APPLICATION; FEE.
   (a)   Any person desiring a precious metal and gem dealer’s license shall
make application to the Chief of Police setting forth the applicant’s name,
Social Security number, birth date, owner(s) of the business, location of place
of business, whether or not the applicant is a citizen of the United States,
whether previously engaged in the business and where and when engaged in the
business.
   (b)   The application for a precious metal and gem dealer’s license shall be
filed with the Chief of Police 14 days prior to the desired date of issuance of
the license.
   (c)   If all the information given on the application for the license is
complete and accurate, the Chief of Police shall issue a precious metal and gem
dealer’s license within 14 days from the date of application, unless the
applicant has been convicted of any crime involving theft, dishonesty or false
statement and the conviction has not been expunged.
   (d)   The precious metal and gem dealer’s license shall not be transferable
and shall expire 12 months after the date the license was issued.
   (e)   The annual precious metal and gem dealer’s license fee shall be as
established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time.
   (f)   The precious metal and gem dealer’s license shall be displayed in a
conspicuous place in the place of business.
(Ord. 82-1981, passed 10-26-1981)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 709.05 RECORD OF PURCHASES.
   Every precious metal and gem dealer licensed under this chapter shall keep a
daily register and the forms as are approved by the Chief of Police recording
every article purchased by the dealer that is made of or contains precious
metal or gems and the persons from whom the article was acquired. At the time
each article is purchased, and before the transaction is completed, all of the
information required in the daily register shall be legibly written in the
English language and include the name, date of birth, sex, race, place of
residence, driver’s license number or other personal identification and general
physical description, of the person selling the article. The precious metal and
gem dealer is also to record in the daily register a general description and
all identifying letters or marks inscribed on any of the articles purchased.
The daily register shall, at all times be open to inspection by the Chief of
Police, a police officer, or any other authorized agent of the Chief of Police.
Upon demand of any of them, the licensee shall produce and show an article
listed and described in the register which is in his or her possession.
(Ord. 82-1981, passed 10-26-1981)
§ 709.06 REPORTING OF PURCHASES.
   Every precious metal and gem dealer shall provide the Chief of Police each
day with a description of every article made of or containing precious metal or
gems which was purchased by the dealer during the preceding day. An exception
is made for the description of any articles purchased on Saturday, which must
be provided to the Chief of Police on the Monday following the purchase. This
description shall be provided by the dealer on a form supplied by the Chief of
Police.
(Ord. 82-1981, passed 10-26-1981)
§ 709.07 PURCHASE FROM MINORS PROHIBITED.
   No precious metal and gem dealer shall purchase any article made of or
containing precious metal or gems from any person under 18 years of age.
(Ord. 82-1981, passed 10-26-1981)
§ 709.08 REQUIRED RETENTION PERIOD FOR LICENSED DEALERS.
   No precious metal and gem dealer shall change, alter, deface, release from
his or her possession or sell any article made of or containing precious metal
or gems and purchased by him or her until the expiration of seven days after
the delivery to the Chief of Police of the description of that article as
provided in §
709.06, except by the written permission of the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 82-1981, passed 10-26-1981)
§ 709.09 REQUIRED RETENTION PERIOD FOR PAWNBROKERS.
   No person, firm, partnership or corporation licensed as a pawnbroker under
R.C. Chapter 4727 shall change, alter, deface, release from his or her
possession or sell any article made of or containing precious metal or gems and
purchased by him or her until the expiration of seven days after the delivery
to the Chief of Police of the description of that article as provided in R.C. §
4727.09, except by the written permission of the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 82-1981, passed 10-26-1981)
§ 709.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree and for a second offense the person is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(Ord. 82-1981, passed 10-26-1981)
CHAPTER 711: COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENTS
Section
711.01   Bowling; billiards and pool
711.02   Circuses, carnivals and shows
711.03   Ticket scalping
711.04   Live sex act businesses prohibited.
711.99   Violations and penalty
Cross-reference:
   Gambling, see §§
517.02 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   County license for public shows, see R.C. Ch. 3765
   Power to regulate billiards, poolrooms and bowling alleys, see R.C. §§
715.51, 715.61
   Power to regulate shows, see R.C. §§ 715.48, 715.63, 3765.02
   State licensing of portable amusement devices, see R.C. § 1711.11(H)
§ 711.01 BOWLING; BILLIARDS AND POOL.
   (a)   Each proprietor of a billiard or pool table or of a bowling alley, or
a combination of both, shall pay an annual license fee. The fees shall be as
established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time.
   (b)   No person shall permit betting or gambling in connection with the use
of the table or alley.
(Ord. 55-1970, passed 10-26-1970)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 711.02 CIRCUSES, CARNIVALS AND SHOWS.
   (a)   License required.
      (1)   Each person, desiring to conduct, stage or give a circus,
menagerie, carnival, sideshow, musical or minstrel entertainment, or exhibition
of monsters or freaks of nature, for which money or reward is demanded or
received, shall first obtain a license and pay the license fee or fees provided
for in this chapter.
      (2)   The applicant for a license to conduct, stage or give the
exhibition shall give at least one week’s notice in writing to the City
Manager, stating the dates of the performances, and the location at which they
are to be presented. The City Manager or his or her duly designated agent shall
give his or her consent to the issuance of the license if he or she deems the
location suitable for the purpose; that it will properly accommodate the
patrons; that the nature of the performance or exhibition is morally proper,
and the use of the location will not throw too great a burden upon the Police
and Fire Departments.
      (3)   No circus, menagerie or carnival shall be given for more than two
consecutive days, except in cases were Council by special resolution shall
allow a longer period, or where the exhibition is to be conducted on municipal
property and the use thereof for a longer period has been approved by Council.
   (b)   Clean-up deposit required. At the time an application for the license
is made, where use of municipal grounds is contemplated, the applicant shall
deposit with the Finance Director a cash bond of not less than $10 nor more
than $50, conditioned upon the restoration and cleaning up of the grounds in a
manner satisfactory to the City Manager or his or her duly designated agent. In
the event the grounds are restored and cleaned up properly following the
exhibition, the deposit shall be returned; otherwise the deposit shall be
forfeited to the municipality.
   (c)   License fee. The fee for a license shall be as follows: for each
circus, carnival, sideshow, musical or minstrel entertainment or exhibition of
monsters or freaks of any nature, shall be as established and set forth in the
fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time.
   (d)   License fee may be waived in civic interest. The City Manager or his
or her duly designated agent may, in his or her discretion, grant without cost
a license for the holding of a circus, carnival, sideshow, musical or minstrel
entertainment for not more than six consecutive days, where all of the
performances are fostered and supervised by civic interests of the
municipality, and a substantial part of the funds derived therefrom is expended
for charitable or civic purposes.
(Ord. 55-1970, passed 10-26-1970)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 711.03 TICKET SCALPING.
   Any person or persons, whether as principals or agents carrying on or
engaged in the business of trafficking for profit in tickets of admission to
any theatre, music hall, sporting event or other place of entertainment,
amusement or instruction to which tickets of admission are offered for sale to
the general public, shall be required to pay a license fee as established and
set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time. The license shall be issued by the City Manager
and given for the term of one year from date of issue. The trafficking in
tickets for any school entertainments, lecture courses, and lectures on
historic, literary or scientific subjects shall not come within the provisions
of this section; nor shall this section apply to any sale or transfer of
tickets of admission to any theatre, music hall, sporting event or other place
of entertainment, amusement or instruction, when no greater price is asked or
received therefor than that for which the tickets were sold or offered for sale
by persons or corporations issuing the tickets.
(Ord. 53-1981, passed 6-8-1981)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 711.04 LIVE SEX ACT BUSINESSES PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Definitions. In this section, unless the context otherwise requires:
      (1)   CONSIDERATION means the payment of money or the exchange of any
item of value for:
         A.   The right to enter the business premises or any portion thereof:
or
         B.   The right to remain on the business premises or any portion
thereof; or
         C.   The right to purchase any item permitting the right to enter, or
remain on, the business premises or any portion thereof; or
         D.   The right to a membership permitting the right to enter, or
remain on, the business premises or any portion thereof.
      (2)   LIVE SEX ACT means any act whereby one or more persons engage in a
live performance or live conduct which contains oral sexual contact or sexual
intercourse.
      (3)   LIVE SEX ACT BUSINESS means any business in which one or more
persons may view, or may participate in, a live sex act for a consideration.
      (4)   OPERATE AND MAINTAIN means to organize, design, perpetuate, or
control. OPERATE AND MAINTAIN includes providing financial support by paving
utilities, rent, maintenance costs or advertising costs, supervising activities
or work schedules, and directing or furthering the aims of the enterprise.
      (5)   ORAL SEXUAL CONTACT means oral contact with the penis, vulva, or
anus.
      (6)   SEXUAL INTERCOURSE means penetration into the penis, vulva, or anus
by any part of the body or by any object or manual masturbatory contact with
the penis or vulva.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate and maintain a live sex
act business.
   (c)   Operation of a live sex act business is a public nuisance per se.
   (d)   The City Attorney, in the name of the city, may apply to the Warren
County Court of Common Pleas for an order permitting the city to abate
violations of this section.
(Ord. 2017-66, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 711.99 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY.
   Any person or organization that violates any provision of §
711.03 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second
offense and each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense,
the person or organization is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 53-1981, passed 6-8-1981)
CHAPTER 715: PUBLIC PICNICS AND AMUSEMENTS
Section
715.01   Permits required; written notice
715.02   Permit fee; cost of police supervision
715.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Circuses, carnivals and shows, see §
711.02
§ 715.01 PERMITS REQUIRED; WRITTEN NOTICE.
   (a)   No person or organization, whether for profit or otherwise, shall
conduct or allow to be conducted a public picnic, public outing or public
entertainment of similar nature exceeding 200 people in attendance in or on
lands or buildings within the corporate limits without first obtaining a permit
from the City Manager.
   (b)   Written notice of the intention shall be given not less than 24 hours
prior to the time when the picnic, outing or similar entertainment is to be
held. This written notice shall request the City Manager to issue a permit
allowing the picnic, outing or similar entertainment.
(Ord. 44-1978, passed 6-12-1978)
§ 715.02 PERMIT FEE; COST OF POLICE SUPERVISION.
   For each day that the picnic, outing or entertainment is to be held, a fee
shall accompany the application for the period. The fee shall be as established
and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time. In addition to the permit fee, an additional
sum shall be paid to reimburse the City Manager for the cost of detailing
special police officers to preserve the peace and good order at the picnic,
outing or entertainment, if determined to be necessary by the Safety Director.
These special police officers may be, subject to departmental regulations, any
regular member of the Police Division who is off duty or any other suitable
special police officers. This section shall not apply to any picnic, outing or
entertainment given for the sole benefit of or for the city, or any church,
school, civic or nonprofitable organization purposes with less than 200 people
in attendance.
(Ord. 44-1978, passed 6-12-1978)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 715.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$150. Each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 717: TAXICABS
Section
717.01   Definitions
717.02   License fee
717.03   Licensing regulations for drivers
717.04   Employment of unlicensed drivers prohibited
717.05   Licensing provisions
717.06   Insurance
717.07   Application for taxicab licenses
717.08   Issuance of license
717.09   Transfer of ownership; substituting equipment
717.10   Revocation and suspension of license
717.11   Restoration of suspended license
717.12   Surrender of license certificate; destruction of license
717.13   Conducting business during suspension or revocation
717.14   Display of license certificate required
717.15   Identification
717.16   Condition of equipment
717.17   Periodic inspection
717.18   Service to be rendered on demand
717.19   Number of passengers
717.20   Delivery of property left in taxicab
717.21   Surrender of license certificate
717.22   Refusal or failure of passenger to pay charge
717.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Operation and equipment, see Part Three, Traffic Code
   Use of taxicab and bus stands, see §
351.10
Statutory reference:
   Chauffeur’s license not required, see R.C. § 4501.01(V)
   Operation by minor prohibited, see R.C. § 4507.321
   Power to establish stands and fix rates, see R.C. §§ 715.25, 305.04(l)
   Power to regulate, see R.C. §§ 715.22, 715.66
§ 717.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   DRIVER. The person in actual physical control of a taxicab.
   OPERATOR. Any person owning, in charge of, or managing a taxicab business in
the city.
   TAXICAB. Any vehicle whose owner or driver secures or accepts passengers for
hire on the public streets, or in public or quasi-public places, except
motorbuses.
   UNENGAGED TAXICAB. A taxicab in the charge of a driver and neither occupied
by or standing at the direction of a passenger nor responding to a call of a
prospective passenger. A taxicab standing in a taxi stand shall be presumed to
be UNENGAGED.
(Ord. 56-1985, passed 8-12-1985)
§ 717.02 LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   Every person engaged in the business of operating taxicabs, shall pay
an annual license fee and shall comply with the terms of this chapter and all
ordinances pertaining to the regulation of taxicabs now in effect or which
hereafter may become effective.
   (b)   The fee shall be as established and set forth in the fee schedule in
Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 56-1985, passed 8-12-1985)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 717.03 LICENSING REGULATIONS FOR DRIVERS.
   (a)   Every person engaged in the occupation of driving taxicabs shall pay
an initial license fee for the original license and an annual fee for every
year thereafter, which shall include a license button or badge furnished by the
licensing authority, together with a photograph and fingerprints which shall be
taken by the licensing authority. The license button or badge shall be worn by
the driver on his or her hat or coat in a manner as is plainly visible. The
photograph shall be conspicuously displayed in the vehicle. The licensee shall
comply with the terms of this chapter and all ordinances or laws governing the
operation of taxicabs and motor vehicles which may now be in effect or which
may hereafter become effective. Public record of a conviction of a crime is
grounds for denial of a taxicab driver’s license, within the discretion of the
licensing authority.
   (b)   The fees shall be as established and set forth in the fee schedule in
Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 56-1985, passed 8-12-1985)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 717.04 EMPLOYMENT OF UNLICENSED DRIVERS PROHIBITED.
   No licensee shall permit any licensed taxicab to be driven for hire by any
person who is not a licensed driver under the provisions of §
717.03.
(Ord. 56-1985, passed 8-12-1985)
§ 717.05 LICENSING PROVISIONS.
   (a)   Every person engaged in the business of operating one or more taxicabs
as defined in §
717.01 shall pay the annual license fee required by §
717.02 and shall comply with all the provisions of this chapter and all
ordinances pertaining to the regulation of taxicabs.
   (b)   When licenses are issued for taxicab operation after July 1, of any
year, the fee shall be one-half of the annual fee. All licenses shall expire on
December 31 of the year for which they are issued.
(Ord. 56-1985, passed 8-12-1985)
§ 717.06 INSURANCE.
   (a)   No person shall operate taxicabs or engage in the business of
operating taxicabs for the transportation of persons for hire within the city
unless the applicant for a license, under the provisions of §
717.05, deposits with the City Manager a policy or certificate of liability
insurance for the taxicab for which a license is applied. The insurance shall
be acceptable to and subject to the approval of the Law Director and shall
indemnify the applicant in the sum of $100,000 for injury to one person,
$300,000 for injury to more than one person and $25,000 for property damage in
any one accident through the operation of the taxicab for which the license is
applied.
   (b)   The policy shall further contain a clause obligating the surety
company or insurance company writing the policy to give ten days written notice
to the City Manager before cancellation of the policy. Upon the lapse,
expiration or termination of the policy and the failure to replace it with
another acceptable insurance policy, the license issued under the provisions of
§
717.05 shall expire.
(Ord. 56-1985, passed 8-12-1985)
§ 717.07 APPLICATION FOR TAXICAB LICENSES.
   Applications for taxicab licenses shall be made to the City Manager upon
blanks provided by the city and shall set forth the name and address of the
applicant, the trade name and address of the applicant, the trade name under
which he or she does business, the seating capacity, design, color scheme,
lettering, and marks to be used on the vehicle, the motor number, location of
the taxi stand, and the other information as may be required by the City
Manager.
(Ord. 56-1985, passed 8-12-1985)
§ 717.08 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Before a license is issued upon an original application, the City Manager
shall refer the application to the Chief of Police who shall investigate and
report to the City Manager the condition of the equipment for which a license
is requested. If it is found that the taxicab sought to be licensed is a fit
and safe conveyance and that it complies with all the requirements of this
chapter and any ordinances of the city, the City Manager shall issue the
license upon payment of the proper license fee, as set forth in §
717.05 and the furnishing of insurance as required by §
717.06. The investigation shall not be necessary when an application for the
renewal of an existing license is filed.
(Ord. 56-1985, passed 8-12-1985)
§ 717.09 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP; SUBSTITUTING EQUIPMENT.
   Licenses may not be transferred from owner to owner, but, upon application
therefor duly filed, may be transferred to other equipment upon payment of a
fee. The fees shall be as established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part
One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time. Applications for the transfer shall be referred
to the Chief of the Police Department for investigation in the same manner as
required in the case of an original application for a license, as set forth in
§
717.08, and the license may thereafter be transferred to cover the substituted
equipment upon finding that the proposed substitution of equipment is safe and
that it complies with all requirements of this chapter and all ordinances of
the city.
(Ord. 56-1985, passed 8-12-1985)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 717.10 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (a)   The license of any person who violates any provision of this chapter
or permits the same to be violated by any agent or driver, or who willfully
makes a false statement in any application for a license, or who permits any
license issued to him or her to be used in any manner not authorized by this
chapter, or who fails to operate the taxicab or causes the same to be
inoperative for more than 30 days in any one calendar year, shall be subject to
revocation by the City Manager regardless of whether or not criminal
proceedings have been instituted. The revocation shall take effect only after a
hearing on the matter is conducted by the City Manager. A written notice of the
hearing shall be given at least five days prior thereto to the licensee
personally or by leaving a copy at a place of business designated in the
license therefor existing.
   (b)   As a preliminary to revocation, any license issued by the city may be
suspended by the City Manager. Any suspension shall be put into effect by
serving a notice thereof upon the licensee personally or by leaving a copy at
his or her place of business or as designated in the license. The notice shall
specify the reason for suspension and the period of time in no case exceeding
15 days, within which the conditions causing the suspension must be corrected
and may state that unless the correction is made within that time the license
will be revoked.
(Ord. 56-1985, passed 8-12-1985)
§ 717.11 RESTORATION OF SUSPENDED LICENSE.
   Upon showing by a licensee, whose license has been suspended, that he or she
has in good faith complied with all conditions at any time prior to the time
specified in the notice of suspension, his or her license may be restored at
any time.
(Ord. 56-1985, passed 8-12-1985)
§ 717.12 SURRENDER OF LICENSE CERTIFICATE; DESTRUCTION OF LICENSE.
   No person whose license has been suspended or revoked shall fail, refuse or
neglect to surrender the license certificate to any police officer demanding
it; nor shall any person conceal or destroy any license certificate during the
year for which the license was issued.
(Ord. 56-1985, passed 8-12-1985)
§ 717.13 CONDUCTING BUSINESS DURING SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   No person shall carry on or conduct any taxicab business during any period
during which the license therefor is suspended or after the license is revoked,
until in each or either case the license is restored. (Ord. 56-1985, passed 8-
12-1985)
§ 717.14 DISPLAY OF LICENSE CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   Every person to whom a taxicab license is issued shall post the license
certificate in a prominent place upon the premises of the headquarters from
where the business is carried on, and shall keep the license certificate so
posted so long as the business is carried on thereunder. The licensee shall not
permit the license to be obscured or concealed in any way so that the license
will not be readily visible at all times to persons lawfully present on the
premises.
(Ord. 56-1985, passed 8-12-1985)
§ 717.15 IDENTIFICATION.
   Every person owning and operating taxicabs who obtains a license from the
city may adopt any trade name, design or color scheme or method of painting or
lettering the taxicabs that is approved by the City Manager, which shall
include:
   (a)   A serial body number assigned by the City Manager to each taxicab
painted or attached on each side and on the rear of the taxicab; and
   (b)   The name of the owner or the trade name under which he or she does
business, painted or attached on each side of the taxicab.
(Ord. 56-1985, passed 8-12-1985)
§ 717.16 CONDITION OF EQUIPMENT.
   Every taxicab shall be kept in a safe and sanitary operating condition and
at all times shall have the following equipment:
   (a)   A light within the passenger compartment, capable of being lighted or
extinguished upon request by the passenger;
   (b)   Brakes sufficient to control the taxicab at all times. No brakes shall
be deemed to comply with the requirements of this section unless they are
capable of stopping the taxicab within 25 feet from a speed of 20 miles per
hour on a hard, dry, level road, free from loose material. In addition, every
taxicab shall have an emergency brake capable of holding the vehicle on any
grade that it can ascend; and
   (c)   Safety seat belts of types exceeding Society of Automotive Engineer
specifications in the number of two in the rear seat and one in the front seat.
(Ord. 56-1985, passed 8-12-1985)
§ 717.17 PERIODIC INSPECTION.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to have each licensed taxicab
presented to the Chief of Police or to a person designated by him or her, once
every four months at the time prescribed by the official for the purpose of
having the taxicab thoroughly inspected as to safety and sanitary conditions.
   (b)   If the vehicle is found to be in an unsafe, or unsanitary condition,
the licensee shall forthwith correct the defect and, upon failure to do so,
shall be subject to having his or her license suspended or revoked. The
requirements as to periodic inspection shall not prevent the Chief of Police,
or any person designated by him or her, from ordering any licensed taxicab to
be presented for special examination upon demand as deemed advisable by the
official.
   (c)   Failure to present a licensed taxicab for inspection as hereinbefore
required shall subject the licensee to a suspension or revocation of his or her
license.
(Ord. 56-1985, passed 8-12-1985)
§ 717.18 SERVICE TO BE RENDERED ON DEMAND.
   It shall be the duty of every driver of an unengaged taxicab, upon request,
to transport any orderly person between any two points within the city. Should
it be shown at any time to the satisfaction of the City Manager that a driver
has failed to comply with the requirements of this section, the City Manager
may, after hearing, revoke the license of the driver.
(Ord. 56-1985, passed 8-12-1985)
§ 717.19 NUMBER OF PASSENGERS.
   No person shall carry in a taxicab more passengers than the seating capacity
of the vehicle, exclusive of the driving seat, as stated in the license
application for the vehicle.
(Ord. 56-1985, passed 8-12-1985)
§ 717.20 DELIVERY OF PROPERTY LEFT IN TAXICAB.
   The driver of a taxicab shall promptly deliver to the police, or to the
operator of the taxicab or his or her authorized agent, all property of value
left in the taxicab by passengers.
(Ord. 56-1985, passed 8-12-1985)
§ 717.21 SURRENDER OF LICENSE CERTIFICATE.
   If a licensee voluntarily quits business, it shall be his or her duty to
surrender the license certificate within ten days from the time of the
cessation.
(Ord. 56-1985, passed 8-12-1985)
§ 717.22 REFUSAL OR FAILURE OF PASSENGER TO PAY CHARGE.
   No person, with the intent to defraud, shall refuse or fail to pay, or
abscond without paying, the lawful charge for any taxicab service.
(Ord. 56-1985, passed 8-12-1985)
§ 717.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which another penalty is
not already provided, shall be fined not more than $150 for each offense.
(Ord. 56-1985, passed 8-12-1985)
CHAPTER 721: CABLE TELEVISION RATES
Section
721.01   Definitions
721.02   Initial review of basic cable rates
721.03   Review of request for increase in basic cable rates
721.04   Cable operator information
Cross-reference:
   Cable television service defined, see §
545.01(c)
   Telecommunication service, see §
545.01(qq)
   Theft of services, see §
545.05
Statutory reference:
   Cable television defined; contracts, see R.C. §§ 1332.21
§ 721.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASIC CABLE RATES. The monthly charges for a subscription to the basic
service tier and the associated equipment.
   BASIC SERVICE TIER. A separately available service tier to which
subscription is required for access to any other tier of service, including as
a minimum, but not limited to, all shall carry signals, all PEG channels and
all domestic television signals other than superstations.
   BENCHMARK. A per channel rate of charge for cable service and associated
equipment which the FCC has determined is reasonable.
   CABLE ACT OF 1992. The Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition
Act of 1992, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.
   CABLE OPERATOR. Any person or group of persons who:
      (1)   Provide cable service over a cable system and directly or through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in a cable system; or
      (2)   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any arrangement,
the management and operation of a cable system.
   CHANNEL. A unit of cable service identified and selected by a channel number
of similar designation.
   COST OF SERVICE SHOWING. A filing in which the cable operator attempts to
show that benchmark rate or the price cap is not sufficient to allow the cable
operator to fully recover the costs of providing the basic service tier and to
continue to attract capital.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   INITIAL BASIC CABLE RATES. The rates that the cable operator is charging for
the basic service tier, including charges for associated equipment, at the time
the city notifies the cable operator of the city’s qualification and intent to
regulate basic cable rates.
   INTERCOMMUNITY CABLE REGULATORY COMMISSION (ICRC). A regional council of
governments organized under Ohio law of which the city is a member having the
authority to conduct certain administrative procedures on behalf of the city in
relation to this chapter.
   MUST-CARRY SIGNAL. The signal of any local broadcast station (except
superstations) which is required to be carried on the basic service tier.
   PEG CHANNEL. The channel capacity designated for public, educational or
governmental use, and facilities and equipment for the use of that channel
capacity.
   PRICE CAP. The ceiling set by the FCC on future increases in basic cable
rates regulated by the city, based on a formula using GNP fixed weight price
index, reflecting general increases in the cost of doing business and changes
in overall inflation.
   REASONABLE RATE STANDARD. A per channel rate that is at, or below, the
benchmark or price cap level.
   SUPERSTATION. Any nonlocal broadcast signal secondarily transmitted by
satellite.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-10-1994)
§ 721.02 INITIAL REVIEW OF BASIC CABLE RATES.
   (a)   Notice. Upon the adoption of this chapter and the certification of the
city by the FCC, the city or the ICRC shall immediately notify all cable
operators in the city, by certified mail, return receipt requested, that the
city intends to regulate subscriber rates charged for the basic service tier
and associated equipment as authorized by the Cable Act of 1992, being 47
U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.
   (b)   Cable operator response. Within 30 days of receiving notice from the
city or the ICRC, a cable operator shall file with the city or the ICRC, its
current rates for the basic service tier and associated equipment and any
supporting material concerning the reasonableness of its rates.
   (c)   Expedited determination and public hearing.
      (1)   If Council is able to expeditiously determine that the cable
operator’s rates for the basic service tier and associated equipment are within
the FCC’s reasonable rate standard, as determined by the applicable benchmark,
Council shall:
         A.   Hold a public hearing at which interested persons may express
their views; and
         B.   Act to approve the rates within 30 days from the date the cable
operator filed its basic cable rates with the city.
      (2)   If Council or the ICRC takes no action within 30 days from the date
the cable operator filed its basic cable rates with the city, the proposed
rates shall continue in effect.
      (3)   The public hearing may be held in conjunction with other ICRC
communities under the direction of the ICRC.
   (d)   Extended review period.
      (1)   If Council is unable to determine whether the rates in issue are
within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard based on the material before it, or
if the cable operator submits a cost-of-service showing, Council shall, within
60 days from the date the cable operator filed its basic cable rates with the
city and by adoption of a formal resolution, invoke the following additional
periods of time, as applicable to make a final determination:
         A.   Ninety days if Council needs more time to ensure that a rate is
within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard; or
         B.   One hundred and fifty days if the cable operator has submitted a
cost-of-service showing seeking to justify a rate above the applicable
benchmark.
      (2)   If Council has not made a decision within the 90- or 150-day
period, Council shall issue a brief written order at the end of the period
requesting the cable operator to keep accurate account of all amounts received
by reason of the proposed rate and on whose behalf the amounts are paid.
   (e)   Public hearing. During the extended review period and before taking
action on the proposed rate, Council or the ICRC shall hold at least one public
hearing at which interested persons may express their views and record
objections.
   (f)   Objections. An interested person who wishes to make an objection to
the proposed initial basic rate may request the Secretary to record the
objection during the public hearing or may submit the objection in writing any
time before the decision resolution is adopted. In order for an objection to be
made part of the record, the objector must provide the Secretary with the
objector’s name and address.
   (g)   Benchmark analysis. If a cable operator submits its current basic
cable rate schedule as being in compliance with the FCC’s reasonable rate
standard, Council or the ICRC shall review the rates using the benchmark
analysis in accordance with the standard form authorized by the FCC. Based on
Council or the ICRC’s findings, the initial basic cable rates shall be
established as follows.
      (1)   If the current basic cable rates are below the benchmark, those
rates shall become the initial basic cable rates and the cable operator’s rates
shall be capped at that level.
      (2)   If the current basic cable rates exceed the benchmark, the rates
shall be the greater of the cable operator’s per channel rate on September 30,
1992, reduced by 10%, or the applicable benchmark, adjusted for inflation and
any change in the number of channels occurring between September 30, 1992 and
the initial date of regulation.
      (3)   If the current basic cable rates exceed the benchmark, but the
cable operator’s per channel rate was below the benchmark on September 30,
1992, the initial basic cable rate shall be the benchmark, adjusted for
inflation.
   (h)   Cost-of-service showings. If a cable operator does not wish to reduce
the rates to the permitted level, the cable operator shall have the opportunity
to submit a cost-of-service showing in an attempt to justify an initial basic
cable rate above the FCC’s reasonable rate standard. Council will review a
cost-of-service review. Council may approve initial basic cable rates above the
benchmark if the cable operator makes the necessary showing; however, a cost-
of-service determination resulting in rates below the benchmark or below the
cable operator’s September 30, 1992 rates minimum 10%, shall prescribe the
cable operator’s new rates.
   (i)   Decision.
      (1)   By formal resolution. After completion by the city or the ICRC of
its review of the cable operator’s proposed rates, Council shall adopt its
decision by formal resolution. The decision shall include one of the following:
         A.   If the proposal is within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard or
is justified by a cost-of-service analysis, Council shall approve the initial
basic cable rates proposed by the cable operator; or
         B.   If the proposal is not within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard
and the cost-of-service analysis, if any, does not justify the proposed rates,
Council shall establish initial basic cable rates that are within the FCC’s
reasonable rate standard or that are justified by a cost-of-service analysis.
      (2)   Rollbacks and refunds. If Council determines that the initial basic
cable rates as submitted exceed the reasonable rate standard or that the cable
operator’s cost-of-service showing justifies lower rates, Council may order the
rates reduced in accordance with divisions (g) or (h) hereof, as applicable. In
addition, Council may order the cable operator to pay to subscribers, refunds
of the excessive portion of the rates with interest (computed at applicable
rates published by the Internal Revenue Service for tax refunds and additional
tax payments), retroactive to September 1, 1993. The method for paying any
refund and the interest rate will be in accordance with FCC regulations as
directed in Council’s decision resolution.
      (3)   Statement of reasons for decision and public notice. If rates
proposed by a cable operator are disapproved in whole or in part, or if there
were objections made by other parties to the proposed rates, the resolution
shall state the reasons for the decision and Council shall give public notice
of its decision. Public notice will be given by advertisement once in the
official newspaper of the city.
   (j)   Appeal. Council’s decision concerning rates for the basic service tier
or associated equipment, may be appealed to the FCC in accordance with
applicable federal regulations.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-10-1994)
§ 721.03 REVIEW OF REQUEST FOR INCREASE IN BASIC CABLE RATES.
   (a)   Notice. A cable operator in the city who wishes to increase the rates
for the basic service tier or associated equipment shall file a request with
the city and the ICRC and notify all subscribers at least 30 days before the
cable operator desires the increase to take effect. This notice may not be
given more often than annually and not until at least one year after the
determination of the initial basic cable rates.
   (b)   Expedited determination and public hearing.
      (1)   If Council or the ICRC is able to expeditiously determine that the
cable operator’s rate increase request for basic cable service is within the
FCC’s reasonable rate standard, as determined by the applicable price cap,
Council shall:
         A.   Hold a public hearing at which interested persons may express
their views; and
         B.   Act to approve the rate increase within 30 days from the date the
cable operator filed its request with the city.
      (2)   If Council takes no action within 30 days from the date the cable
operator filed its request with the city, the proposed rates shall go into
effect.
      (3)   During the extended review period and before taking action on the
proposed rate, Council or the ICRC shall hold at least one public hearing at
which interested persons may express their views and record objections.
   (c)   Extended review period.
      (1)   If Council and the ICRC are unable to determine whether the rate
increase is within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard based on the material
before it, or if the cable operator submits a cost-of-service showing, Council
shall, by adoption of a formal resolution, invoke the following additional
periods of time as applicable, to make a final determination:
         A.   Ninety days if Council or the ICRC needs more time to ensure that
the requested increase is within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard as
determined by the applicable price cap; and
         B.   One hundred and fifty days if the cable operator has submitted a
cost-of-service showing seeking to justify a rate increase above the applicable
price cap.
      (2)   The proposed rate increase is tolled during the extended review
period.
      (3)   If Council has not made a decision within the 90- to 150-day
period, Council shall issue a brief written order at the end of the period
requesting the cable operator to keep accurate account of all amounts received
by reason of the proposed rate increase and on whose behalf the amounts are
paid.
   (d)   Public hearing. During the extended review period and before taking
action on the requested rate increase, Council or the ICRC shall hold at least
one public hearing at which interested persons may express their views and
record objections.
   (e)   Objections. An interested person who wishes to make an objection to
the proposed rate increase may request the Secretary to record the objection
during the public hearing or may submit the objection in writing anytime before
the decision resolution is adopted. In order for an objection to be made part
of the record, the objector shall provide the Secretary with the objector’s
name and address.
   (f)   Delayed determination. If Council is unable to make a final
determination concerning a requested rate increase within the extended time
period, the cable operator may put the increase into effect, subject to
subsequent refund if Council later issues a decision disapproving any portion
of the increase.
   (g)   Price cap analysis. If a cable operator presents its request for a
rate increase as being in compliance with the FCC’s price cap, Council shall
review the rate using a price cap analysis in accordance with the standard form
authorized by the FCC. Based on Council’s findings, the basic cable rates shall
be established as follows.
      (1)   If the proposed basic cable rate increase is within the price cap
established by the FCC, the proposed rates shall become the new basic cable
rates.
      (2)   If the proposed basic cable rate increase exceeds the price cap
established by the FCC, Council shall disapprove the proposed rate increase and
order an increase that is in compliance with the price cap.
   (h)   Cost-of-service showings. If a cable operator submits a cost-of-
service showing in an attempt to justify a rate increase above the price cap,
Council shall review the submission pursuant to the FCC standards for cost-of-
service review. Council may approve a rate increase above the price cap if the
cable operator makes the necessary showing; however, a cost-of-service
determination resulting in a rate below the price cap or below the cable
operator’s then current rate shall prescribe the cable operator’s new rate.
   (i)   Decision. Council’s decision concerning the requested rate increase,
shall be adopted by formal resolution. If a rate increase proposed by a cable
operator is disapproved in whole or in part, or if objections were made by
other parties to the proposed rate increases, the resolution shall state the
reasons for the decision. Objections may be made at the public hearing by a
person requesting the City Secretary to record the objection or may be
submitted in writing at any time before the decision resolution is adopted.
   (j)   Refunds.
      (1)   Council may order refunds of subscribers’ rate payments with
interest if:
         A.   Council was unable to make a decision within the extended time
period as described in division (c) hereof;
         B.   The cable operator implemented the rate increase at the end of
the extended review period; and
         C.   Council determines that the rate increase as submitted exceeds
the applicable price cap or that the cable operator failed to justify the rate
increase by a cost-of-service showing, and Council disapproves any portion of
the rate increase.
      (2)   The method of paying any refund and the interest rate will be in
accordance with FCC regulations as directed in Council’s decision resolution.
   (k)   Appeal. Council’s decision concerning rates for the basic service tier
or associated equipment, may be appealed to the FCC in accordance with
applicable federal regulations.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-10-1994)
§ 721.04 CABLE OPERATOR INFORMATION.
   (a)   The city may require:
      (1)   In those cases when the cable operator has submitted initial rates
or proposed an increase that exceeds the reasonable rate standard, Council or
the ICRC may require the cable operator to produce information in addition to
that submitted, including proprietary information, if needed to make a rate
determination. In these cases, a cable operator may request the information be
kept confidential in accordance with this section; and
      (2)   In cases where initial or proposed rates comply with the reasonable
rate standard, Council or the ICRC may request additional information only in
order to document that the cable operator’s rates are in accord with the
standard.
   (b)   Request for confidentiality. A cable operator submitting information
to Council may request in writing that the information may be made routinely
available for public inspection. A copy of the request shall be attached to and
cover all of the information and all copies of the information to which it
applies.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 1-10-1994)
CHAPTER 723: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
723.01   Purpose; findings and rationale
   
723.02   Definitions
   
723.03   License required
   
723.04   Issuance of license
   
723.05   Fees
   
723.06   Inspection
   
723.07   Expiration and renewal of license
   
723.08   Suspension
   
723.09   Revocation
   
723.10   Hearing; license denial, suspension, revocation; appeal
   
723.11   Transfer of license
   
723.12   Hours of operation
   
723.13   Regulations pertaining to operation of adult arcade or adult motion
picture theater
   
723.14   Loitering, exterior lighting and monitoring, and interior lighting
requirements
   
723.15   Penalties and enforcement
   
723.16   Applicability of chapter to existing businesses
   
723.17   Prohibited conduct
   
723.18   Scienter required to prove violation or business licensee liability
   
723.19   Severability
Cross-reference:
   Live sex act businesses prohibited, see §
711.04
   Sexually oriented business supplemental standards, see
Chapter 1189
   Zoning districts permitted in, see §§
1162.02(d),
1163.02(d),
1165.02(c)
§ 723.01 PURPOSE; FINDINGS AND RATIONALE.
   (a)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens of the city, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects of sexually oriented
businesses within the city. The provisions of this chapter have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content or
reasonable access to any communicative materials, including sexually oriented
materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene material.
   (b)   Findings and rationale. Based on evidence of the adverse secondary
effects of adult uses presented in hearings and in reports made available to
the City Council, and on findings, interpretations, and narrowing constructions
incorporated in the cases of City of Littleton v. Z.J. Gifts D-4, L.L.C., 541
U.S. 774 (2004); City of Los Angeles v. Alameda Books, Inc., 535 U.S. 425
(2002); City of Erie v. Pap's A.M., 529 U.S. 277 (2000); City of Renton v.
Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986); Young v. American Mini Theatres,
427 U.S. 50 (1976); Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991);
California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); N.Y State Liquor Authority v.
Bellanca, 452 U.S. 714 (1981); Sewell v. Georgia, 435 U.S. 982 (1978); FW/PBS,
Inc. v. City of Dallas, 493 U.S. 215 (1990); City of Dallas v. Stanglin, 490
U.S. 19 (1989); and Entm't Prods., Inc. v. Shelby County, 721 F.3d 729 (6th
Cir. 2013); East Brooks Books, Inc. v. Shelby County, 588 F.3d 360 (6th Cir.
2009); Entm't Prods., Inc. v. Shelby County, 588 F.3d 372 (6th Cir. 2009);
Richland Bookmart, Inc. v. Knox County, 555 F.3d 512 (6th Cir. 2009);
Sensations, Inc. v. City of Grand Rapids, 526 F.3d 291 (6th Cir. 2008); 84
Video/Newsstand, Inc. v. Sartini, 2011 WL 3904097 (6th Cir. Sept. 7, 2011); 84
Video Newsstand, Inc. v. Sartini, 2007 WL 3047207, Case No. 1:07-CV-3190 (N.D.
Ohio, Oct. 18, 2007); 84 Video Newsstand, Inc. v. Sartini, Case No. 1:07-CV-
3190, R. 356, Order Granting Defendants’ Motions for Summary Judgment (N.D.
Ohio June 22, 2009); 729, Inc. v. Kenton County Fiscal Court, 515 F.3d 485 (6th
Cir. 2008); Deja Vu of Nashville, Inc. v. Metropolitan Gov’t of Nashville &
Davidson County, 466 F.3d 391 (6th Cir. 2006); Deja Vu of Cincinnati, L.L.C.,
v. Union Township Bd. of Trustees, 411 F.3d 777 (6th Cir. 2005) (en banc); DLS,
Inc. v. City of Chattanooga, 107 F.3d 403 (6th Cir. 1997); Brandywine, Inc. v.
City of Richmond, 359 F.3d 830 (6th Cir. 2004); Richland Bookmart v. Nichols,
137 F.3d 435 (6th Cir. 1998); Deja Vu of Nashville, Inc., et al. v.
Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, 274 F.3d 377 (6th
Cir. 2001); Currence v. City of Cincinnati, 28 Fed. Appx. 438 (6th Cir. Jan.
24, 2002); In re Tennessee Public Indecency Statute, 172 F.3d 873 (6th Cir.
Jan. 13 1999)(table); Richland Bookmart, Inc. v. Nichols, 137 F.3d 435 (6th
Cir. 1998); Bamon Corp. v. City of Dayton, 923 F.2d 470 (6th Cir. 1991);
Triplett Grille, Inc. v. City of Akron, 40 F.3d 129 (6th Cir. 1994); Lund v.
City of Fall River, 714 F.3d 65 (1st Cir. 2013); Imaginary Images, Inc. v.
Evans, 612 F.3d 736 (4th Cir. 2010); LLEH, Inc. v. Wichita County, 289 F.3d 358
(5th Cir. 2002); Ocello v. Koster, 354 S.W.3d 187 (Mo. 2011); Plaza Group
Properties, LLC v. Spencer County Plan Commission, 877 N.E.2d 877 (Ind. Ct.
App. 2007); Flanigan’s Enters., Inc. v. Fulton County, 596 F.3d 1265 (11th Cir.
2010); World Wide Video of Washington, Inc. v. City of Spokane, 368 F.3d 1186
(9th Cir. 2004); Ben’s Bar, Inc. v. Village of Somerset, 316 F.3d 702 (7th Cir.
2003); Peek-a-Boo Lounge v. Manatee County, 630 F.3d 1346 (11th Cir. 2011);
Daytona Grand, Inc. v. City of Daytona Beach, 490 F.3d 860 (11th Cir. 2007);
Heideman v. South Salt Lake City, 348 F.3d 1182 (10th Cir. 2003); Williams v.
Morgan, 478 F.3d 1316 (11th Cir. 2007); Jacksonville Property Rights Assn. Inc.
v. City of Jacksonville, 635 F.3d 1266 (11th Cir. 2011); H&A Land Corp. v. City
of Kennedale, 480 F.3d 336 (5th Cir. 2007); Hang On, Inc. v. City of Arlington,
65 F.3d 1248 (5th Cir. 1995); Fantasy Ranch. Inc. v. City of Arlington, 459
F.3d 546 (5th Cir. 2006); Illinois One News, Inc. v. City of Marshall, 477 F.3d
461 (7th Cir. 2007); G.M. Enterprises, Inc. v. Town of St. Joseph, 350 F.3d 631
(7th Cir. 2003); Bigg Wolf Discount Video Movie Sales, Inc. v. Montgomery
County, 256 F. Supp. 2d 385 (D. Md. 2003); Spokane Arcade, Inc. v. City of
Spokane, 75 F.3d 663 (9th Cir. 1996); DCR, Inc. v. Pierce County, 964 P.2d 380
(Wash. Ct. App. 1998); City of New York v. Hommes, 724 N.E.2d 368 (N.Y. 1999);
Taylor v. State, No. 01-01-00505-CR, 2002 WL 1722154 (Tex. App. July 25, 2002);
Fantasyland Video, Inc. v. County of San Diego, 505 F.3d 996 (9th Cir. 2007);
U.S. v. Boston, 818 F.3d 651 (11th Cir. 2016); Gammoh v. City of La Habra, 395
F.3d 1114 (9th Cir. 2005); Z.J. Gifts D-4, L.L.C. v. City of Littleton, Civil
Action No. 99-N-1696, Memorandum Decision and Order (D. Colo. March 31, 2001);
People ex rel. Deters v. The Lion’s Den, Inc., Case No. 04-CH-26, Modified
Permanent Injunction Order (Ill. Fourth Judicial Circuit, Effingham County,
July 13, 2005); Reliable Consultants, Inc. v. City of Kennedale, No. 4:05-CV-
166-A, Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law (N.D. Tex. May 26, 2005); and
based upon reports concerning secondary effects occurring in and around
sexually oriented businesses, including, but not limited to, “Correlates of
Current Transactional Sex among a Sample of Female Exotic Dancers in Baltimore,
MD,” Journal of Urban Health (2011); “Does the Presence of Sexually Oriented
Businesses Relate to Increased Levels of Crime?” Crime & Delinquency (2012)
(Louisville, KY); Metropolis, Illinois - 2011-12; Manatee County, Florida -
2007; Hillsborough County, Florida - 2006; Clarksville, Indiana - 2009; El
Paso, Texas - 2008: Memphis, Tennessee - 2006; New Albany, Indiana - 2009;
Louisville, Kentucky - 2004; Fulton County, GA - 2001; Chattanooga, Tennessee -
1999-2003; Jackson County, Missouri - 2008; Ft. Worth, Texas - 2004: Kennedale,
Texas - 2005; Greensboro, North Carolina - 2003; Dallas, Texas - 1997; Houston,
Texas - 1997, 1983; Phoenix, Arizona - 1995-98, 1979; Tucson, Arizona - 1990;
Spokane, Washington - 2001; St. Cloud, Minnesota - 1994; Austin, Texas -1986:
Indianapolis, Indiana - 1984; Garden Grove, California - 1991; Los Angeles,
California - 1977; Whittier, California - 1978; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma - 1986;
New York, New York Times Square - 1994; the Report of the Attorney General’s
Working Group On The Regulation Of Sexually Oriented Businesses, (June 6, 1989,
State of Minnesota); Dallas, Texas - 2007; “Rural Hotspots: The Case of Adult
Businesses,” 19 Criminal Justice Policy Review 153 (2008); “Stripclubs
According to Strippers: Exposing Workplace Sexual Violence,” by Kelly
Holsopple, Program Director, Freedom and Justice Center for Prostitution
Resources, Minneapolis, Minnesota: “Sexually Oriented Businesses: An Insider's
View,” by David Sherman, presented to the Michigan House Committee on Ethics
and Constitutional Law, Jan. 12, 2000; Sex Store Statistics and Articles: Law
Enforcement and Private Investigator Affidavits (Adult Cabarets in Forest Park,
GA and Sandy Springs, GA); and Strip Club-Trafficking Documents, the City
Council finds:
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses, as a category of commercial uses, are
associated with a wide variety of adverse secondary effects including, but not
limited to, personal and property crimes, human trafficking, prostitution,
potential spread of disease, lewdness, public indecency, obscenity, illicit
drug use and drug trafficking, negative impacts on surrounding properties,
urban blight, litter, and sexual assault and exploitation. Alcohol consumption
impairs judgment and lowers inhibitions, thereby increasing the risk of adverse
secondary effects.
      (2)   Each of the foregoing negative secondary effects constitutes a harm
which the city has a substantial government interest in preventing and/or
abating. This substantial government interest in preventing secondary effects,
which is the city’s rationale for this chapter, exists independent of any
comparative analysis between sexually oriented and non-sexually oriented
businesses. Additionally, the city’s interest in regulating sexually oriented
businesses extends to preventing future secondary effects of either current or
future sexually oriented businesses that may locate in the city. The city finds
that the cases and documentation relied on in this chapter are reasonably
believed to be relevant to said secondary effects.
   (c)   Adoption and incorporation. The city hereby adopts and incorporates
herein its stated findings and legislative record related to the adverse
secondary effects of sexually oriented businesses, including the judicial
opinions and reports related to such secondary effects.
(Ord. 2017-67, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 723.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the words and phrases defined in the sections
hereunder shall have the meanings therein respectively ascribed to them unless
a different meaning is clearly indicated by the context.
   ADULT ARCADE. A commercial establishment to which the public is permitted or
invited that maintains booths or rooms smaller than 100 square feet, wherein
image-producing devices are regularly maintained, and where a fee is charged to
access the booths or rooms or to view the images displayed on the image-
producing devices.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. A commercial establishment which, as one of its principal
business activities, offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration
any one or more of the following: books, magazines, periodicals or other
printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
compact discs, digital video discs, slides, or other visual representations
which are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas.” A “principal business activity”
exists where the commercial establishment meets any one or more of the
following criteria:
      (1)   At least 35% of the establishment’s displayed merchandise consists
of said items, or
      (2)   At least 35% of the establishment’s revenues derive from the sale
or rental, for any form of consideration, of said items, or
      (3)   The establishment maintains at least 35% of its floor space for the
display, sale, and/or rental of said items (aisles and walkways used to access
said items, as well as cashier stations where said items are rented or sold,
shall be included in “floor space” maintained for the display, sale, or rental
of said items): or
      (4)   The establishment maintains at least 500 square feet of its floor
space for the display, sale, and/or rental of said items (aisles and walkways
used to access said items, as well as cashier stations where said items are
rented or sold, shall be included in “floor space” maintained for the display,
sale, or rental of said items); or
      (5)   The establishment regularly offers for sale or rental at least 500
of said items; or
      (6)   The establishment regularly makes said items available for sale or
rental and holds itself out, in any medium, by using “adult,” “adults-only,”
“XXX,” “sex,” “erotic,” “novelties,” or substantially similar language, as an
establishment that caters to adult sexual interests.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment to which the public
is permitted or invited that maintains viewing rooms that are 100 square feet
or larger wherein films or videos characterized by their emphasis upon
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” are regularly
shown.
   CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an item.
As applied in this chapter, no business shall be classified as a sexually
oriented business by virtue of showing, selling, or renting materials rated NC-
17 or R by the Motion Picture Association of America.
   CITY. City of Mason, Ohio.
   EMPLOY, EMPLOYEE and EMPLOYMENT. These terms describe and pertain to any
person who works or engages in activity for pay on the premises of a sexually
oriented business, on a full time, part time, temporary, or contract basis,
regardless of whether the person is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent, lessee, or otherwise. EMPLOYEE does not include a person
exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for
the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ESTABLISH or ESTABLISHMENT. Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business; or
      (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business.
   FLOOR SPACE. The floor area inside an establishment that is visible or
accessible to patrons for any reason, excluding restrooms.
   HEARING OFFICER. An attorney, not an employee of the city, who is licensed
to practice law in Ohio, and retained to serve as an independent tribunal to
conduct hearings under this chapter.
   INFLUENTIAL INTEREST. The actual power to control or influence the
operation, management, or policies of the sexually oriented business or legal
entity which operates the sexually oriented business. An individual is deemed
to have an INFLUENTIAL INTEREST if he or she:
      (1)   Is the on-site general manager of the sexually oriented business;
      (2)   Owns a financial interest of 30% or more of a business or of any
class of voting securities of a business; or
      (3)   Holds an office (e.g., president, vice president, secretary,
treasurer, managing member, managing director, etc.) in a legal entity which
operates the sexually oriented business.
   LICENSEE.  A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual or individuals listed as an
applicant on the application for a sexually oriented business license. In the
case of an “employee,” it shall mean the person in whose name the sexually
oriented business employee license has been issued.
   NUDITY or NUDE CONDUCT. The showing of the human male or female genitals,
pubic area, vulva, or anus with less than a fully opaque covering, or the
showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part
of the nipple and areola. For purposes of this chapter, a “fully opaque
covering” must be non-flesh colored, shall not consist of any substance that
can be washed off the skin, such as paint or make-up, and shall not simulate
the appearance of the anatomical area behind it.
   OPERATOR. Any person on the premises of a sexually oriented business who
manages, supervises, or controls the business or a portion thereof. A person
may be found to be an OPERATOR regardless of whether such person is an owner,
part owner, or licensee of the business.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   PREMISES. The real property upon which the sexually oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways,
and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a
sexually oriented business license.
   REGIONAL SHOPPING MALL (ENCLOSED). A group of retail and other commercial
establishments that is planned, developed, and managed as a single property,
with on-site parking provided around the perimeter of the shopping center, and
that is generally at least fort) acres in size and flanked by two or more large
“anchor” stores, such as department stores. The common walkway or “mall” is
enclosed, climate-controlled and lighted, usually with an inward orientation of
the stores facing the walkway.
   REGULARLY. The consistent and repeated doing of an act on an ongoing basis.
   SEMI-NUDE or SEMI-NUDITY. The showing of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola and extending across the width of
the breast at that point, or the showing of the male or female buttocks. This
definition shall include the lower portion of the human female breast, but
shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breasts
exhibited by a bikini, dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, or similar wearing
apparel provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEMI-NUDE LOUNGE. A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club, or
similar commercial establishment that regularly offers live semi-nude conduct.
No establishment shall avoid classification as a semi-nude lounge by offering
nude conduct.
   SEXUAL DEVICE. Any three-dimensional object designed for stimulation of the
male or female human genitals, anus, buttocks, female breast, or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others and shall include devices
commonly known as dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, cock rings, anal beads, butt
plugs, nipple clamps, and physical representations of the human genital organs.
Nothing in this definition shall be construed to include devices primarily
intended for protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing
pregnancy.
   SEX PARAPHERNALIA STORE. A commercial establishment where more than 100
sexual devices are regularly made available for sale or rental; or where sexual
devices are regularly made available for sale or rental and the establishment
regularly holds itself out, in any medium, by using “adult,” “adults-only,”
“XXX,” “sex,” “erotic,” “novelties,” or substantially similar language, as an
establishment that caters to adult sexual interests. This definition shall not
be construed to include any establishment located within an enclosed regional
shopping mall or any pharmacy or establishment primarily dedicated to providing
medical products.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An “adult arcade,” an “adult bookstore,” an
“adult motion picture theater,” a “semi-nude lounge,” or a “sex paraphernalia
store.”
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.  Any of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered: human genitals, pubic
region: buttock; and female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following specified crimes for which
less than five years has elapsed since the date of conviction or the date of
release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the later date:
      (1)   Lewdness; sexual battery; rape; aggravated rape; sexual assault;
aggravated sexual assault; public indecency; statutory rape; rape of a child;
sexual exploitation of a minor; indecent exposure; indecency with a child;
molestation of a child;
      (2)   Prostitution; patronizing prostitution; promotion of prostitution;
      (3)   Dissemination of obscenity or illegal pornography; sale,
distribution or display of harmful material to a minor: sexual performance by a
child: possession or distribution of child pornography;
      (4)   Distribution of a controlled substance;
      (5)   Engaging in organized criminal activity relating to a sexually
oriented business;
      (6)   Any attempt, solicitation, or conspiracy to commit one of the
foregoing offenses; or
      (7)   Any offense in another jurisdiction that, had the predicate act(s)
been committed in Ohio, would have constituted any of the foregoing offenses.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following:
      (1)   Intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation or sodomy; or
      (2)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the
activities described in subsection (1) above.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  Any of
the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute an influential interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
   VIEWING ROOM. The room or booth where a patron of a sexually oriented
business would ordinarily be positioned while watching a film, videocassette,
digital video disc, or other video on an image-producing device.
(Ord. 2017-67, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 723.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   Sexually oriented business license. It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate a sexually oriented business in the city without a valid
sexually oriented business license.
   (b)   Employee license. It shall be unlawful for any person to be an
“employee,” as defined in this chapter, of a sexually oriented business in the
city without a valid sexually oriented business employee license, except that a
person who is a licensee under a valid sexually oriented business license shall
not be required to also obtain a sexually oriented business employee license.
It shall be unlawful for any person who operates a sexually oriented business
to employ a person at the establishment who does not have a valid sexually
oriented business employee license.
   (c)   Application. An applicant for a sexually oriented business license or
a sexually oriented business employee license shall file in person at the
office of the City Manager a completed application made on a form provided by
the City Manager. A sexually oriented business may designate an individual with
an influential interest in the business to file its application for a sexually
oriented business license in person on behalf of the business. The application
shall be signed as required by subsection (d) herein and shall be notarized. An
application shall be considered complete when it contains, for each person
required to sign the application, the information and/or items required in this
subsection (c), accompanied by the appropriate licensing fee:
      (1)   The applicant’s full legal name and any other names used by the
applicant in the preceding five years.
      (2)   Current business address or another mailing address for the
applicant.
      (3)   Written proof of age, in the form of a driver’s license, a picture
identification document containing the applicant’s date of birth issued by a
governmental agency, or a copy of a birth certificate accompanied by a picture
identification document issued by a governmental agency.
      (4)   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the
business name, location, legal description, mailing address and phone number of
the sexually oriented business.
      (5)   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the
name and business address of the statutory agent or other agent authorized to
receive service of process.
      (6)   A statement of whether an applicant has been convicted of or has
pled guilty or nolo contendere to a specified criminal activity as defined in
this chapter, and if so, each specified criminal activity involved, including
the date, place, and jurisdiction of each as well as the dates of conviction
and release from confinement, where applicable.
      (7)   A statement of whether any sexually oriented business in which an
applicant has had an influential interest, has, in the previous five years (and
at a time during which the applicant had the influential interest):
         A.   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or
         B.   Been subject to a court order of closure.
      (8)   An application for a sexually oriented business license shall be
accompanied by a legal description of the property where the business is
located and a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor area occupied by the business and a
statement of floor area visible or accessible to patrons for any reason,
excluding restrooms. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally prepared
but shall be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the
interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. Applicants
who are required to comply with the stage, booth, and/or room configuration
requirements of this chapter shall submit a diagram indicating that the setup
and configuration of the premises meets the requirements of the applicable
regulations. See §§
723.13 and
723.17. The City Manager may waive the requirements of this subsection (c)(8)
for a renewal application if the applicant adopts a legal description and a
sketch or diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that the
configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      (9)   The information provided pursuant to this subsection (c) shall be
supplemented in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
City Manager within ten working days of a change of circumstances which would
render the information originally submitted false or incomplete.
   (d)   Signature. A person who seeks a sexually oriented business employee
license under this section shall sign the application for a license. If a
person who seeks a sexually oriented business license under this section is an
individual, he shall sign the application for a license as applicant. If a
person who seeks a sexually oriented business license is other than an
individual, each person with an influential interest in the sexually oriented
business or in a legal entity that controls the sexually oriented business
shall sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under this chapter and each applicant shall be considered a licensee
if a license is granted.
   (e)   The information provided by an applicant in connection with an
application for a license under this chapter shall be maintained by the office
of the City Manager on a confidential basis, and such information may be
disclosed only as may be required, and only to the extent required, by
governing law or court order. Any information protected by the right to privacy
as recognized by state or federal law shall be redacted prior to such
disclosure.
(Ord. 2017-67, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 723.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (a)   Sexually oriented business license. Upon the filing of a completed
application for a sexually oriented business license, the City Manager shall
immediately issue a temporary license to the applicant if the completed
application is from a preexisting sexually oriented business that is lawfully
operating in the city and the completed application, on its face, indicates
that the applicant is entitled to an annual sexually oriented business license.
The temporary license shall expire upon the final decision of the city to deny
or grant an annual license. Within 30 days of the filing of a completed
sexually oriented business license application, the City Manager shall either
issue a license to the applicant or issue a written notice of intent to deny a
license to the applicant. The City Manager shall issue a license unless:
      (1)   An applicant is less than 18 years of age.
      (2)   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
chapter for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form.
      (3)   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid.
      (4)   The sexually oriented business, as defined herein, is not in
compliance with the interior configuration requirements of this chapter.
      (5)   The location of the sexually oriented business does not comply with
the location requirements of the Mason Planning and Zoning Code. This ground
for denial of a sexually oriented business license, however, shall not prevent
issuance or renewal of a sexually oriented business license for an
establishment that was lawfully operating at the location for which the
sexually oriented business license is sought, prior to the adoption of this
subsection.
      (6)   Any sexually oriented business in which an applicant has had an
influential interest, has, in the previous five years (and at a time during
which the applicant had the influential interest):
         A.   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or
         B.   Been subject to an order of closure.
      (7)   An applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo
contendere to a specified criminal activity, as defined in this chapter.
   (b)   Employee license. Upon the filing of a completed application for a
sexually oriented business employee license, the City Manager shall immediately
issue a temporary license to the applicant if the applicant seeks licensure to
work in a licensed sexually oriented business and the completed application, on
its face, indicates that the applicant is entitled to an annual sexually
oriented business employee license. The temporary license shall expire upon the
final decision of the city to deny or grant an annual license. Within 30 days
of the filing of a completed sexually oriented business employee license
application, the City Manager shall either issue a license to the applicant or
issue a written notice of intent to deny a license to the applicant. The City
Manager shall issue a license unless:
      (1)   The applicant is less than 18 years of age.
      (2)   The applicant has failed to provide information as required by this
chapter for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form.
      (3)   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid.
      (4)   Any sexually oriented business in which the applicant has had an
influential interest, has, in the previous five years (and at a time during
which the applicant had the influential interest):
         A.   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or
         B.   Been subject to an order of closure.
      (5)    The applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo
contendere to a specified criminal activity, as defined in this chapter.
   (c)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the number of the license issued to
the licensee(s), the expiration date, and. if the license is for a sexually
oriented business, the address of the sexually oriented business. The sexually
oriented business license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it may be read at any time
that the business is occupied by patrons or is open to the public. A sexually
oriented business employee shall keep the employee’s license on his or her
person or on the premises where the licensee is then working.
(Ord. 2017-67, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 723.05 FEES.
   The initial license and annual renewal fees for sexually oriented business
licenses and sexually oriented business employee licenses shall be as follows:
$100 for the initial fee for a sexually oriented business license and $50 for
annual renewal; $25 for the initial sexually oriented business employee license
and $25 for annual renewal.
(Ord. 2017-67, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 723.06 INSPECTION.
   Sexually oriented businesses and sexually oriented business employees shall
permit the City Manager and his or her agents to inspect, from time to time on
an occasional basis, the portions of the sexually oriented business premises
where patrons are permitted, for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the
specific regulations of this chapter, during those times when the sexually
oriented business is occupied by patrons or is open to the public. This section
shall be narrowly construed by the city to authorize reasonable inspections of
the licensed premises pursuant to this chapter, but not to authorize a
harassing or excessive pattern of inspections.
(Ord. 2017-67, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 723.07 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (a)   Each license shall remain valid for a period of one calendar year from
the date of issuance unless otherwise suspended or revoked. Such license may be
renewed only by making application and payment of a fee as provided in this
chapter. When a renewal license is issued, it shall become effective the day
after the previous license expires and shall remain valid for a period of one
calendar year from its effective date unless otherwise suspended or revoked.
   (b)   Application for renewal of an annual license should be made at least
90 days before the expiration date of the current annual license, and when made
less than 90 days before the expiration date, the expiration of the current
license will not be affected.
(Ord. 2017-67, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 723.08 SUSPENSION.
   (a)   The City Manager shall issue a written notice of intent to suspend a
sexually oriented business license for a period not to exceed 30 days if the
sexually oriented business licensee has knowingly or recklessly violated this
chapter or has knowingly or recklessly allowed an employee or any other person
to violate this chapter.
   (b)   The City Manager shall issue a written notice of intent to suspend a
sexually oriented business employee license for a period not to exceed 30 days
if the employee licensee has knowingly or recklessly violated this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-67, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 723.09 REVOCATION.
   (a)   The City Manager shall issue a written notice of intent to revoke a
sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented business employee
license, as applicable, if the licensee knowingly or recklessly violates this
chapter or has knowingly or recklessly allowed an employee or any other person
to violate this chapter and a suspension of the licensee’s license has become
effective within the previous 12-month period.
   (b)   The City Manager shall issue a written notice of intent to revoke a
sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented business employee
license, as applicable, if:
      (1)   The licensee has knowingly given false information in the
application for the sexually oriented business license or the sexually oriented
business employee license;
      (2)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
possession, use, or sale of controlled substances on the premises of the
sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
prostitution on the premises of the sexually oriented business;
      (4)   The licensee knowingly or recklessly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the license was finally suspended or
revoked;
      (5)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed any
specified sexual activity or specified criminal activity to occur in or on the
premises of the sexually oriented business;
      (6)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly allowed a person under the
age of 21 years to consume alcohol on the premises of the sexually oriented
business;
      (7)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly allowed a person under the
age of 18 years to appear in a semi-nude condition or in a state of nudity on
the premises of the sexually oriented business; or
      (8)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly allowed three or more
violations of this chapter within a 12-month period.
   (c)   The fact that any relevant conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the revocation of the license, provided that, if any conviction which
serves as a basis of a license revocation is overturned or reversed on appeal,
that conviction shall be treated as null and of no effect for revocation
purposes.
   (d)   When, after the notice and hearing procedure described in this
chapter, the city revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one year
and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business license or
sexually oriented business employee license for one year from the date
revocation becomes effective.
(Ord. 2017-67, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 723.10 HEARING; LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION; APPEAL.
   (a)   When the City Manager issues a written notice of intent to deny,
suspend, or revoke a license, the City Manager shall immediately send such
notice, which shall include the specific grounds under this chapter for such
action, to the applicant or licensee (respondent) by personal delivery or
certified mail. The notice shall be directed to the most current business
address or other mailing address on file with the City Manager for the
respondent. The notice shall also set forth the following: The respondent shall
have ten days after the delivery of the written notice to submit, at the office
of the City Manager, a written request for a hearing. If the respondent does
not request a hearing within said ten days, the City Manager’s written notice
shall become a final denial, suspension, or revocation, as the case may be, on
the thirtieth day after it is issued.
   (b)   If the respondent does make a written request for a hearing within
said ten days, then the City Manager shall, within ten days after the
submission of the request, send a notice to the respondent indicating the date,
time, and place of the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted not less than
ten days nor more than 20 days after the date that the hearing notice is
issued. The city shall provide for the hearing to be transcribed.
   (c)   At the hearing, the respondent shall have the opportunity to present
all relevant arguments and to be represented by counsel, present evidence and
witnesses on his or her behalf, and cross-examine any of the City Manager’s
witnesses. The City Manager shall also be represented by counsel, and shall
bear the burden of proving the grounds for denying, suspending, or revoking the
license. The hearing shall take no longer than two days, unless extended at the
request of the respondent to meet the requirements of due process and proper
administration of justice. The Hearing Officer shall issue a final written
decision, including specific reasons for the decision pursuant to this chapter,
to the respondent within five days after the hearing.
   (d)   If the decision is to deny, suspend, or revoke the license, the
decision shall advise the respondent of the right to appeal such decision to a
court of competent jurisdiction, and the decision shall not become effective
until the thirtieth day after it is rendered. If the Hearing Officer’s decision
finds that no grounds exist for denial, suspension, or revocation of the
license, the Hearing Officer shall, contemporaneously with the issuance of the
decision, order the City Manager to immediately withdraw the intent to deny,
suspend, or revoke the license and to notify the respondent in writing by
certified mail of such action. If the respondent is not yet licensed, the City
Manager shall contemporaneously therewith issue the license to the applicant.
   (e)   If any court action challenging a licensing decision is initiated, the
city shall consent to expedited briefing and/or disposition of the action,
shall comply with any expedited schedule set by the court, and shall facilitate
prompt judicial review of the proceedings. The following shall apply to any
sexually oriented business that is lawfully operating as a sexually oriented
business, or any sexually oriented business employee that is lawfully employed
as a sexually oriented business employee, on the date on which the completed
business or employee application, as applicable, is filed with the City
Manager. Upon the filing of any court action to appeal, challenge, restrain, or
otherwise enjoin the city’s enforcement of any denial, suspension, or
revocation of a temporary license or annual license, the City Manager shall
immediately issue the respondent a provisional license. The provisional license
shall allow the respondent to continue operation of the sexually oriented
business or to continue employment as a sexually oriented business employee and
will expire upon the court’s entry of a judgment on the respondent’s appeal or
other action to restrain or otherwise enjoin the city’s enforcement. While a
provisional license is in effect, the provisional licensee shall comply with
the regulations set forth in §§
723.06,
723.12,
723.13,
723.14, and
723.17, and any violations thereof shall be subject to the provisions of §
723.15.
(Ord. 2017-67, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 723.11 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the sexually oriented
business license application.
(Ord. 2017-67, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 723.12 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business between
12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that a sexually oriented
business which has obtained a permit or license to sell alcoholic beverages
from the state may remain open until the hour specified in that permit or
license.
(Ord. 2017-67, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 723.13 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO OPERATION OF ADULT ARCADE OR ADULT MOTION
PICTURE THEATER.
   (a)   A person who operates or causes to be operated an adult arcade or
adult motion picture theater shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Each application for a sexually oriented business license shall
contain a diagram of the premises showing the location of all operator’s
stations, booths or viewing rooms, overhead lighting fixtures, and restrooms,
and shall designate all portions of the premises in which patrons will not be
permitted. The diagram shall also designate the place at which the license will
be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the
nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall not be required;
however, each diagram shall be oriented to the north or to some designated
street or object and shall be drawn to a designated scale or with marked
dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of all areas of
the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. The
City Manager may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the
applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that the
configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of
the premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted.
      (3)   The interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting
fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than five foot candles as
measured at the floor level. It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any
employees present on the premises, to ensure that the illumination described
above is maintained at all times that the premises is occupied by patrons or
open for business.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no specified sexual activity occurs in or on
the premises.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of the operator to post conspicuous signs in
well-lighted entry areas of the business stating all of the following:
         A.   That the occupancy of viewing rooms less than 100 square feet is
limited to one person.
         B.   That specified sexual activity on the premises is prohibited.
         C.   That the making of openings between viewing rooms is prohibited.
         D.   That violators will be required to leave the premises.
         E.   That violations of these regulations are unlawful.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the operator to enforce the regulations
articulated in (5)A. though (5)D. above.
      (7)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from an operator’s station of every area of
the premises, including the interior of each viewing room but excluding
restrooms, to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose. An
operator’s station shall not exceed 32 square feet of floor area. If the
premises has two or more operator’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose, excluding restrooms, from at least one of the operator’s stations.
The view required in this paragraph must be by direct line of sight from the
operator’s station. It is the duty of the operator to ensure that at least one
employee is on duty and situated in each operator’s station at all times that
any patron is on the premises. It shall be the duty of the operator, and it
shall also be the duty of any employees present on the premises, to ensure that
the view area specified in this paragraph remains unobstructed by any doors,
curtains, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials or enclosures at
all times that any patron is present on the premises.
      (8)   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that no porous
materials are used for any wall, floor, or seat in any booth or viewing room.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under subsections (a)
(1) through (a)(8) to knowingly or recklessly fail to fulfill that duty.
   (c)   No patron shall knowingly or recklessly enter or remain in a viewing
room less than 100 square feet in area that is occupied by any other patron.
   (d)   No patron shall knowingly or recklessly be or remain within one foot
of any other patron while in a viewing room that is 100 square feet or larger
in area.
   (e)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly make any hole or opening
between viewing rooms.
(Ord. 2017-67, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 723.14 LOITERING, EXTERIOR LIGHTING AND MONITORING, AND INTERIOR LIGHTING
REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the operator of a sexually oriented business
to:
      (1)   Ensure that at least two conspicuous signs stating that no
loitering is permitted on the premises are posted on the premises;
      (2)   Designate one or more employees to monitor the activities of
persons on the premises by visually inspecting the premises at least once every
90 minutes or inspecting the premises by use of video cameras and monitors; and
      (3)   Provide lighting to the exterior premises to provide for visual
inspection or video monitoring to prohibit loitering. Said lighting shall be of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which customers are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than one foot candle as measured at the
floor level. If used, video cameras and monitors shall operate continuously at
all times that the premises are open for business. The monitors shall be
installed within an operator’s station.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of the operator of a sexually oriented business
to ensure that the interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting
of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which customers are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than five foot candles as
measured at the floor level and the illumination must be maintained at all
times that any customer is present in or on the premises.
   (c)   No sexually oriented business shall erect a fence, wall, or similar
barrier that prevents any portion of the parking lot(s) for the establishment
from being visible from a public right-of-way.
   (d)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to
knowingly or recklessly fail to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 2017-67, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 723.15 PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   A person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine not
to exceed $500 or by imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both. Each
violation or noncompliance shall be considered as a separate offense. Each day
a violation is permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be fined as such.
   (b)   Any premises, building, dwelling, or other structure in which a
sexually oriented business is repeatedly operated or maintained in violation of
this chapter shall constitute a nuisance and shall be subject to civil
abatement proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (c)   The city’s legal counsel is hereby authorized to institute civil
proceedings necessary for the enforcement of this chapter to enjoin, prosecute,
restrain, or correct violations hereof. Such proceedings shall be brought in
the name of the city, provided, however, that nothing in this section and no
action taken hereunder, shall be held to exclude such criminal or
administrative proceedings as may be authorized by other provisions of this
chapter, or any of the laws in force in the city or to exempt anyone violating
this code or any part of the said laws from any penalty which may be incurred.
(Ord. 2017-67, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 723.16 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER TO EXISTING BUSINESSES.
   (a)   Licensing requirements. All preexisting sexually oriented businesses
lawfully operating in the city in compliance with all state and local laws
prior to the effective date of this chapter, and all sexually oriented business
employees working in the city prior to the effective date of this chapter, are
hereby granted a de facto temporary license to continue operation or employment
for a period of 90 days following the effective date of this chapter. By the
end of said 90 days, all sexually oriented businesses and sexually oriented
business employees must apply for a license under this chapter.
   (b)   Interior configuration requirements. Any preexisting sexually oriented
business that is required to, but does not, have interior configurations or
stages that meet at least the minimum requirements of §
723.13 and §
723.17(b) shall have 90 days from the effective date of this chapter to conform
its premises to said requirements. During said 90 days, any employee who
appears within view of any patron in a semi-nude condition shall nevertheless
remain, while semi-nude, at least six feet from all patrons.
   (c)   Other requirements. Except as provided for in §
723.16(a) and (b), sexually oriented businesses shall comply with this chapter
on the date that it takes effect.
(Ord. 2017-67, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 723.17 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (a)   No patron, employee, or any other person shall knowingly or
intentionally, in a sexually oriented business, appear in a state of nudity or
engage in a specified sexual activity.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally, in a sexually oriented
business, appear in a semi-nude condition unless the person is an employee who,
while semi-nude, remains at least six feet from all patrons and on a stage at
least 18 inches from the floor in a room of at least 600 square feet.
   (c)   No employee who appears semi-nude in a sexually oriented business
shall knowingly or intentionally touch a customer or the clothing of a customer
on the premises of a sexually oriented business. No customer shall knowingly or
intentionally touch such an employee or the clothing of such an employee on the
premises of a sexually oriented business.
   (d)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly allow a person under the age
of 18 years to be or remain on the premises of a sexually oriented business.
   (e)   No operator of a sexually oriented business shall knowingly or
recklessly allow a room in the sexually oriented business to be simultaneously
occupied by any patron and any other employee who is semi-nude or who appears
semi-nude on the premises of the sexually oriented business, unless an operator
of the sexually oriented business is present in the same room.
   (f)   No operator or licensee of a sexually oriented business shall violate
the regulations in this section or knowingly or recklessly allow an employee or
any other person to violate the regulations in this section.
   (g)   A sign in a form to be prescribed by the City Manager, and summarizing
the provisions of subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d), shall be posted near the
entrance of the sexually oriented business in such a manner as to be clearly
visible to patrons upon entry. No person shall cover, obstruct, or obscure said
sign.
(Ord. 2017-67, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 723.18 SCIENTER REQUIRED TO PROVE VIOLATION OR BUSINESS LICENSEE LIABILITY.
   This chapter does not impose strict liability. Unless a culpable mental
state is otherwise specified herein, a showing of a reckless mental state is
necessary to establish a violation of a provision of this chapter.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this chapter, an
act by an employee that constitutes grounds for suspension or revocation of
that employee’s license shall be imputed to the sexually oriented business
licensee for purposes of finding a violation of this chapter, or for purposes
of license denial, suspension, or revocation, only if an officer, director, or
general partner, or a person who managed, supervised, or controlled the
operation of the business premises, knowingly or recklessly allowed such act to
occur on the premises. It shall be a defense to liability that the person to
whom liability is imputed was powerless to prevent the act.
(Ord. 2017-67, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 723.19 SEVERABILITY.
   This chapter and each section and provision of said chapter hereunder, are
hereby declared to be independent divisions and subdivisions and, not
withstanding any other evidence of legislative intent, it is hereby declared to
be the controlling legislative intent that if any provisions of said chapter,
or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held to be invalid,
the remaining sections or provisions and the application of such sections and
provisions to any person or circumstances other than those to which it is held
invalid, shall not be affected thereby, and it is hereby declared that such
sections and provisions would have been passed independently of such section or
provision so known to be invalid. Should any procedural aspect of this chapter
be invalidated, such invalidation shall not affect the enforceability, of the
substantive aspects of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-67, passed 5-15-2017)
CHAPTER 725: SWEEPSTAKES/INTERNET CAFES
Section
725.01   Findings and purpose
725.02   Definitions
725.03   Sweepstakes/internet café license required
725.04   Computerized sweepstakes device license required
725.05   Authority of Chief of Police
725.06   Nature of licenses
725.07   Procedure for obtaining licenses
725.08   Denial of license
725.09   Conditions and regulations
725.10   Prohibited conduct
725.11   Revocation
725.12   License fees
725.13   Severability
725.99   Penalty
§ 725.01 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (a)   Findings. Based on investigation and reports of staff, news reports,
discussions with members of other communities, and on findings incorporated in
cases decided by Ohio courts, City Council finds: that in other communities
where Sweepstakes/Internet Cafes and similar types of businesses currently
exist in the State of Ohio, there have been numerous incidents of illegal
gambling; an increase in reports of criminal activities in the areas near the
businesses; an increase in the number of constituent complaints related to the
businesses; and an increase in the need for police oversight to ensure illegal
gambling is not occurring. Further, City Council finds that the enactment of
this chapter to regulate sweepstakes/ internet cafes is a substantial
government interest for the city in preserving the quality of urban life and
that it is in the interest of the health, safety, morals, and general welfare
of the citizens of the city.
   (b)   Purpose. It is the intent of the Council in enacting this chapter to
improve the quality of life and economic vitality of the city; enforce income
tax regulations; prevent safety and fire hazards, disturbances, disorderly
assemblies, and illegal gambling within the city; to establish standards for
licensing, regulation and control of sweepstakes/ internet cafes and premises
upon which they are located and operated.
(Ord. 2011-69, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 725.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (a)   APPLICANT. The person or persons who sign an application for a license
hereunder.
   (b)   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Police Chief of the City of Mason or his or her
designee.
   (c)   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the City of Mason or his or her
designee.
   (d)   COMPUTERIZED SWEEPSTAKES DEVICE. Any computer, machine, game or
apparatus which, upon insertion of a coin, token, access number, magnetic card,
or similar object, or upon the payment of anything of value, and which may be
operated by the public generally for use as a contest of skill, entertainment
or amusement, whether or not registering a score, and which provides the user
with a chance to win anything of value that is not de minimus. Machines
designated for use by the State Lottery Commission and video game arcades are
not COMPUTERIZED SWEEPSTAKES DEVICES for purposes of this chapter.
   (e)   LICENSEE. The person or persons who sign an application for a license
hereunder and to whom such license is issued.
   (f)   OPERATOR. The person or persons having authority to control the
premises of a sweepstakes/internet café.
   (g)   OWNER. Any person who possesses any interest, either directly or
indirectly, in a sweepstakes/internet café.
   (h)   PERSON. Any natural person, firm partnership, association, corporation
or any other form of business organization.
   (i)   PREMISES. The building or any portion thereof used for conducting the
operation of a sweepstakes/internet café.
   (j)   SWEEPSTAKES/INTERNET CAFÉ. Any premises upon which any computerized
sweepstakes device is located for the use or entertainment of the public,
whether or not such a premises has other business purposes of any nature
whatsoever.
(Ord. 2011-69, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 725.03 SWEEPSTAKES/INTERNET CAFÉ LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall conduct or operate a sweepstakes/internet café in the city
without having first obtained a sweepstakes/internet café license as provided
in this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-69, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 725.04 COMPUTERIZED SWEEPSTAKES DEVICE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   One computerized sweepstakes device license shall be required for each
individual computerized sweepstake device and shall specify the name and
address of the licensee and the manufacturer, model number and serial number of
the computer sweepstakes device for which it was issued.
(Ord. 2011-69, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 725.05 AUTHORITY OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   Authority is hereby established and vested in the Chief of Police to
consider any application for a sweepstakes/internet café license under this
chapter, conduct investigations therefor and thereon and issue or deny issuance
of any such license based upon the criteria set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-69, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 725.06 NATURE OF LICENSES.
   (a)   Each sweepstakes/internet café license shall be required to be
displayed permanently in a conspicuous place upon the premises for which it is
issued. Each sweepstakes/internet café license shall be issued for only one
business at only one premises.
   (b)   A computerized sweepstakes device license shall become invalid if the
computerized sweepstakes device is replaced or moved to another location not
specifically stated on the license.
   (c)   Any license issued under this chapter shall be valid for a period of
one year from and after the date of issuance unless suspended or revoked as
provided in this chapter. Each license shall vest a personal privilege but not
any property rights in the license. No license shall be assignable or
transferable, either as to person or location.
(Ord. 2011-69, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 725.07 PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING LICENSES.
   (a)   Applications for sweepstakes/internet café licenses. All applications
for sweepstakes/internet café licenses under this chapter shall be in writing
on a form approved by and filed with the Chief of Police. The application shall
be sworn to under oath and signed by the owner or owners and shall contain
information required by mis section supplied in detail as to each such person,
including general and limited partners of partnerships, shareholders of
corporations and principals or members of any other type of business entity or
organization. All applications shall contain a statement that the information
contained therein is complete, accurate and truthful. Every owner and operator
of the sweepstakes/internet café, shall, at their sole cost and expense, be
fingerprinted by an agency approved by the Chief of Police.
   (b)   Contents of applications. The application for an sweepstakes/internet
café license shall contain the following information as to all owners:
      (1)   True name and all names used by owner(s) in the past five years;
      (2)   Date of birth;
      (3)   Permanent home address and all home addresses used in the past five
years;
      (4)   Business and home telephone numbers;
      (5)   Employment history for the past five years;
      (6)   A statement as to whether or not the owner has been convicted of
any felony or for any misdemeanor involving the operation of a business or
involving gambling activity, minors or any crime involving moral turpitude and,
if so, the date and place of conviction, the nature of the offense and the
penalty imposed;
      (7)   A statement as to whether or not the owner has ever conducted a
sweepstakes/internet café or similar business and, if so, when, where and for
how long.
      (8)   A description of the nature and operation of the main type of
business activity to be conducted upon the premises;
      (9)   The address and telephone number of the premises and of the
business, if different from that of the premises;
      (10)   The name under which the business and premises will be operated;
      (11)   A statement as to whether or not the owner will directly operate
the sweepstakes/internet café, or whether or not an operator who is not an
owner will operate it, and if the latter, the application shall contain
information
      required by this section supplied in detail as to each such operator;
      (12)   A floor plan of the premises and the immediate vicinity drawn to
scale, showing the square footage and placement of the computerized sweepstakes
devices, exits, windows, storage spaces, and off-street parking;
      (13)   The name, address and telephone number of the agent of the
business upon whom service of process can effectively and validly be made; and
      (14)   Specification of the days of the week and the hours of the day
during which the licensed activity will be conducted.
   (c)   Reports of city officials. Upon receipt of an application for a
sweepstakes/internet café license under this chapter, the Chief of Police shall
request the following reports, which shall be rendered to him within 30 days of
the date of filing of the application:
      (1)   A written report from the Fire Chief as to whether the premises and
computerized sweepstakes devices thereon will create a fire hazard;
      (2)   A written report from the Police Department specifying, with regard
to all owners and operators, any convictions for any felony or for any
misdemeanor involving the operation of a business or involving gambling
activity, controlled substances, alcoholic beverages, minors or any crime
involving moral turpitude;
      (3)   A written report from the Chief Building Official as to whether all
applicable building code regulations have been satisfied;
      (4)   A written report from the Chief Zoning Official as to whether all
applicable zoning laws have been satisfied.
   (d)   Applications for computerized sweepstakes device licenses. All
applications for computerized sweepstakes device licenses under this chapter
shall be in writing on a form approved by and filed with the Chief of Police.
The application shall be signed by the owner or owners and shall contain
information required by this section supplied in detail. All applications shall
contain a statement that the information contained therein is complete,
accurate and truthful. The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   A list of all computerized sweepstakes devices to be used at the
sweepstakes/ internet café, specifying the manufacturer, model number and
serial number of the computer sweepstakes device for which it was issued.
      (2)   Supporting documentation from a certified independent regulatory
compliance test laboratory that the software that will be used by the
computerized sweepstakes device performs in similar fashion as other permitted
sweepstakes commercially offered to the public and that the entries are drawn
from a pre-created finite static pool of entries with assigned values. To be
certified the independent regulatory compliance testing laboratory must be
authorized to test regulated gaming equipment by at least one state government
gaming regulatory agency.
   (e)   Determination process.
      (1)   All applications for licenses under this chapter shall be
considered by the Chief of Police, who shall, within ten days after receiving
the written reports, either issue such licenses or deny issuance of such
licenses. Unless a longer time is agreed upon by the applicant and Chief of
Police, all decisions shall be issued within 40 days of submittal of an
application.
      (2)   In the event of the denial of issuance of such a license, the
applicant shall be notified of such denial and the specific reasons therefor in
writing. Such notice shall be mailed or delivered to the applicant at the
address specified in the application by certified U.S. mail, return receipt
requested. The applicant shall have ten days after receipt of such notice
within which to appeal such denial, by filing a written notice of appeal with
the City Manager. Thereupon, the City Manager shall set a date and time for a
hearing upon the appeal which date shall be no later than 30 days from the date
of receipt by the City Manager of the written notice of appeal. Notice of
hearing shall be sent to the applicant not later than ten days prior to the
date of hearing, by certified U.S. mail, return receipt requested. The appeal
shall be heard by the City Manager, who shall have the power after such hearing
to confirm the denial, order the license to be issued or, at its discretion, to
issue a conditional or probationary license. The applicant may present
evidence, provide witnesses and testimony, cross-examine witnesses and may be
represented by legal counsel.
   (f)   License renewal. Each sweepstakes/internet café license and each
computerized sweepstakes device license must be renewed annually. At the time
of renewal, a statement shall be filed with the Chief of Police that the
information listed on the original application for the license is still
complete, accurate and truthful to the best knowledge of all applicants. Such
statement shall be signed by the same persons who signed the original
application. In the event of a change since the original application, a
statement shall be filed with the Chief of Police listing each and every item
of information which has changed since the original application. The Chief of
Police may determine to accept such statement and issue the renewal license
requested, or, in the event of a material change, may require updated
information in which case the provisions associated with obtaining an original
license shall be followed.
   (g)   Expiration. Any sweepstakes/internet café license issued under this
chapter shall expire upon the transfer or sale of a majority interest in the
business, sale of substantially all the assets of the business, or the
discontinuation of the business for a continuous period of 30 days.
   (h)   Changes. Applicants for any sweepstakes/ internet café license issued
under this chapter shall have a continuing duty to promptly supplement
application information required by this section in the event that said
information changes in any material way from what is stated on the application,
including all information pertaining to operators. This requirement applies
even after a license has been issued. The failure to comply with said
continuing duty within 20 days from the date of such change, by supplementing
the application on file with the city, shall be grounds for suspension of a
license.
(Ord. 2011-69, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 725.08 DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (a)   A sweepstakes/internet café license shall not be issued or renewed for
any business:
      (1)   Where any of the owners or the operators have been convicted within
the last five years of any felony or for any misdemeanor involving the
operation of a business or involving gambling activity, minors or any crime
involving moral turpitude;
      (2)   Where it is determined that the premises or operation therein would
be in violation of any provision of the Building Code, the Zoning Code or the
Fire Code of the city or any other pertinent provisions of local, state or
federal law;
      (3)   Where the applicant made a false statement as to a material matter
upon the application or in a hearing concerning the license;
      (4)   Where the application failed to provide all of the required
information; or
      (5)   Where there is not compliance with all terms and conditions under
this chapter and all other applicable ordinances and statutes.
   (b)   A computerized sweepstakes device license shall not be issued or
renewed:
      (1)   Where the applicant made a false statement as to a material matter
upon the application or in a hearing concerning the license;
      (2)   Where the application failed to provide all of the required
information; or
      (3)   Where there is not compliance with all terms and conditions under
this chapter and all other applicable ordinances and statutes.
(Ord. 2011-69, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 725.09 CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   (a)   In addition to any other condition or regulation contained in this
chapter or in state statutes, the following conditions and regulations shall be
applicable to and shall govern and control all licenses of sweepstakes/internet
cafes:
      (1)   Each licensee shall at all times open each and every portion of the
premises for inspection by the Police Department and other city personnel as
necessary for the purposes of enforcing and assuring compliance with, and/or
enforcement of, any provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Each licensee shall have present on the premises at all times when
the premises are open to the public at least one adult operator who has not
been convicted of any felony or of any misdemeanor involving the operation of a
business or involving gambling activities, minors or any crime involving moral
turpitude.
      (3)   No licensee shall allow living quarters to exist with direct entry
to the premises.
      (4)   No person under the age of 21 years shall be permitted to operate a
sweepstakes/internet café.
      (5)   Any and all sweepstakes rules and odds of winning shall be posted
in a conspicuous place at the premises and displayed on the computerized
sweepstakes device at the start of each game and/or activity. If results of a
sweepstakes can be ascertained immediately upon receipt of the sweepstakes
card, token code, or the like, such fact shall conspicuously placed at the
premises and displayed on the computerized sweepstakes device.
      (6)   A list of each separate prize that may be given out and each
separate dollar amount that may be given and the odds of winning any offered
prize or dollar amount awarded for the participation in any game, activity,
program, scheme, sweepstake or play, shall be conspicuously placed at the
premises and displayed on the computerized sweepstakes device.
      (7)   Each licensee shall operate the sweepstakes/internet café business
in compliance with any and all pertinent federal, state and local laws, rules
and regulations.
      (8)   No person under the age of 21 years shall be permitted within the
sweepstakes/internet café.
   (b)   All computerized sweepstakes devices upon the premises of an
sweepstakes/internet café shall be located thereon in conformity with the floor
plan filed with the application for the license and in such a manner:
      (1)   So as not to impair ingress or egress to the premises;
      (2)   So as not to interfere with free and unfettered passage through the
premises;
      (3)   So as to permit a clear and complete view of the interior of the
premises immediately upon entry;
   (c)   The operator shall require a photo identification of every person to
whom anything of value is given in connection with the sweepstakes/internet
café and shall record the person's name, date of birth, and home address and a
description of the thing given, a stated dollar value of the thing given, the
date and time of the giving and, if a computerized sweepstakes device is
involved in the circumstances of the giving, the serial number or other
identifying description of the device. If the dollar value given for any single
event is $600 or more, and the person receiving such sum is a resident of the
city, the operator shall also include in the record a copy of the person's
social security number. By the second Tuesday of each month the operator shall
cause to be delivered to the Finance Department, a copy of the record
containing the information set forth above for the preceding month. The
operator and the city shall not disclose the social security number of any
person to anyone except as required by the laws of the State of Ohio and the
United States.
(Ord. 2011-69, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 725.10 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   No licensee of a sweepstakes/internet café by himself, directly or
indirectly, or by any representative, agent or employee shall permit or fail to
take active steps to eliminate the activities specified in this section from
occurring upon the premises. All such licensees shall have a duty to diligently
pursue enforcement of this section. The actions of the operator and the failure
to take action by the operator shall be imputed to the licensees. No such
licensee shall:
      (1)   Permit the premises to become a gathering place for disorderly
persons of any type;
      (2)   Permit gambling in any form or the possession of gambling
paraphernalia upon the premises;
      (3)   Permit intoxication or permit the possession, sale, use or
consumption of alcoholic beverages upon the premises unless properly licensed
through the State of Ohio;
      (4)   Permit the possession, use or consumption of any unlawful drug,
narcotic or controlled substance upon the premises;
      (5)   Permit the premises or the activity conducted thereon to become a
public nuisance to the surrounding environs;
      (6)   Permit the driveways or streets to become obstructed in any manner
so that traffic is hindered;
      (7)   Permit any computerized sweepstakes device thereon to be operated
at any time the premises are not open for business, or permit the entrance to
be locked at any time that the premises are open for business;
      (8)   Permit any computerized sweepstakes device to be offered to be used
for gambling of any sort;
      (9)   Permit the premises to be open for business without displaying the
licenses therefor in a conspicuous place thereon;
      (10)   Permit any violation of any ordinance of the city or statute of
the State of Ohio to take place upon the premises.
(Ord. 2011-69, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 725.11 REVOCATION.
   (a)   Revocation. All sweepstakes/internet café licenses issued under this
chapter shall be revoked by the Chief of Police upon his or her finding of the
occurrence of any of the following events:
      (1)   A false statement by any licensee as to a material matter made in
an application for license or in a hearing concerning the license;
      (2)   Conviction of any licensee or operator of any felony or of any
misdemeanor involving gambling activities, controlled substances, alcoholic
beverages, minors or any crime involving moral turpitude;
      (3)   Conviction twice within a one-year period of any licensee or
operator for a violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Where it is determined that the premises or operation thereof are
in violation of any provision of the Building Code, the Zoning Code or the Fire
Code of the city or any other pertinent provisions of local, state or federal
law.
   (b)   Hearing. A license shall not be revoked without a hearing before the
City Manager. The licensee shall be given at least ten days prior written
notice of intent to revoke, which shall set forth the time and place of the
hearing and the specific reasons for such suspension or revocation. The
licensee shall have the right at the hearing to present testimony and other
relevant evidence and to orally examine any person offering evidence as to the
reasons for revocation.
(Ord. 2011-69, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 725.12 LICENSE FEES.
   (a)   Fee. In order to offset the costs to be incurred by the city,
including but not limited to costs associated with the enforcement this
chapter, costs to investigate the sweepstakes/internet café and its owners and
operators and other related costs, the fee for a sweepstakes/internet café
license shall be $5,000 per year. The fee for each computerized sweepstakes
device license shall be $30 per month.
   (b)   Filed with application. License fees under this chapter shall be filed
with the application for license and at the time for renewal.
   (c)   Return of fee. In the event an application is denied under this
chapter, one-half of the license fees therefor shall be returned to the
applicant. In the event any license is revoked under this chapter, no portion
of the license fee shall be returned to the owner.
   (d)   The fee shall be as established and set forth in the fee schedule in
Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 2011-69, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 725.13 SEVERABILITY.
   This chapter and each section and provision of this chapter, are hereby
declared to be independent sections and subsections and, notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent, the Council of the City, by adoption of
the legislation containing this section, hereby states that it is the
controlling legislative intent that if any provisions of said chapter, or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or provisions and the application of such sections and
provisions to any person or circumstances other than those to which it is held
invalid, shall not be affected thereby, and it is hereby declared that such
sections and provisions would have been passed independently if such section or
provision were so known to be invalid. The adoption of this chapter in a single
legislative act is merely for convenience. It is the intent that each and every
separate part hereof be severable so as to leave in effect as much of this
chapter as is not found invalid so as to provide as much benefit to its
citizens as possible while still protecting the rights guaranteed under the
U.S. and State Constitutions. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to
permit the use of a computerized sweepstakes device or operation of
sweepstakes/ internet café if such use or operation is determined by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be illegal within the State of Ohio.
(Ord. 2011-69, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 725.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2011-69, passed 8-8-2011)
CHAPTER 727: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
727.01   Policy; exemptions; definitions
727.02   License requirements; prohibited conduct; exemptions
727.03   Application for massage establishment permit; expiration and contents
727.04   Denial of permit
727.05   Suspension or revocation of permit
727.06   Application for masseur or masseuse license; expiration and contents
727.07   Denial of masseur or masseuse license
727.08   Revocation of license
727.09   Display of permit or license; inspections; client identification and
record
727.10   Transfer of permits or licenses
727.11   Hearings; records; appeals
727.12   Deposit of fees
727.13   Severable
727.99   Penalty
§ 727.01 POLICY; EXEMPTIONS; DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   Policy. It is hereby declared that the business of operating massage
establishments as defined herein is a business affecting the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
   (b)   Exemptions. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the
following:
      (1)   Hospitals, nursing homes and public health centers;
      (2)   A person licensed or registered by the State of Ohio Medical Board
while performing his/her licensed or registered profession;
      (3)   A licensed chiropractor, licensed podiatrist, licensed nurse, or
any other licensed health professional;
      (4)   A person working under the direct supervision of individuals or
establishments mentioned in this subsection (b) while performing his/her
licensed or registered profession;
   As used in this subsection (b) “licensed” means licensed, certified, or
registered to practice in the State of Ohio.
   (c)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following words are
defined and shall have the meaning ascribed to them as hereafter set forth:
      (1)   MASSAGE means any method of exerting pressure on, stroking,
kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating, or stimulating the external
soft tissue of the body with the hands, or with the aid of any mechanical or
electrical apparatus or appliance in exchange for anything of value.
      (2)   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT means any fixed place of business where a
person offers massages:
         A.   In exchange for anything of value; or
         B.   In connection with the provisions of another legitimate service.
      (3)   MASSEUR or MASSEUSE means any individual who performs massages at a
massage establishment in exchange for anything of value.
      (4)   PERSON means any individual, co-partnership, firm, association,
joint stock company, corporation or combination of individuals of whatever form
or character.
      (5)   SEXUAL OR GENITAL AREA includes the genitalia, pubic area, anus,
perineum of any person, and the breasts of a female.
      (6)   LICENSE or PERMIT means and refers to persons and business
operations acting in compliance with Massage Establishment regulations pursuant
to Section
727.03; and also means and refers to persons acting in compliance with Masseur
or Masseuse regulations pursuant to Section
727.06.
(Ord. 2016-67, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 727.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED CONDUCT; EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   The City Manager of the City of Mason is authorized and empowered, and
it shall be part of his/her duties, to administer the provisions of this
chapter, including the issuance, denial, suspension and revocation of all
permits and licenses provided for in this chapter. The Safety Director may act
as the Manager's designated agent for such purposes as set forth in the
preceding sentence.
   (b)   No person shall engage in, conduct or carry on, or permit to be
engaged in, conducted or carried on in the City of Mason, the operation of a
massage establishment without first having obtained an annual license therefor
from the City of Mason as provided in Section
727.03.
   (c)   No person that has obtained a massage establishment license pursuant
to Section
727.03 shall allow any massages to occur on the premises or otherwise employ
any person to act as a masseur or masseuse at the licensed premises unless the
person has obtained a license pursuant to Section
727.06.
   (d)   No person shall act as a masseur or masseuse for or at a massage
establishment located in the City of Mason without first having obtained a
license therefor from the City of Mason as provided in Section
727.06.
   (e)   No person, having obtained a license pursuant to Section
727.06, shall act as a masseur or masseuse at any location other than a massage
establishment licensed pursuant to Section
727.03.
   (f)   No masseur or masseuse governed by this Chapter shall accept or
continue employment or perform services at a massage establishment within the
City of Mason that does not then have a current valid massage establishment
permit issued by the City of Mason.
   (g)   No person, as owner or operator of a massage establishment, or any
other person in management or control of such premises, governed by this
Chapter shall knowingly do any of the following at, upon or within that massage
establishment:
      (1)   Employ, hire or make use of a masseur or masseuse not licensed
therefor in accordance with this chapter;
      (2)   Employ, hire or make use of a masseur, masseuse or other person who
is being coerced or forced to act as a masseur, masseuse or worker against that
individual's will and volition;
      (3)   Employ, hire or make use of any person less than twenty-one years
of age.
   (h)   No person as a masseur or masseuse in a massage establishment governed
by this Chapter and located in the City of Mason shall knowingly do any of the
following at, upon or within that massage establishment:
      (1)   Place his or her hand upon, touch with any part of his or her body,
fondle in any manner, or massage the sexual or genital area of any other
person;
      (2)   Perform, offer, or agree to perform any act which would require the
touching of the sexual or genital area of any other person;
      (3)   Touch, offer or agree to touch the sexual or genital area of any
other person with any mechanical or electrical apparatus or appliance;
      (4)   Wear unclean clothing, no clothing, transparent clothing, or
clothing that otherwise reveals the sexual or genital areas of the masseur or
masseuse;
      (5)   Uncover or allow the sexual or genital area of any other person to
be uncovered while providing a massage;
      (6)   Perform, offer or agree to perform a massage with or without
compensation to any individual less than eighteen years of age.
(Ord. 2016-67, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 727.03 APPLICATION FOR MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT PERMIT; EXPIRATION AND CONTENTS.
   (a)   A person desiring to operate a massage establishment within the City
of Mason shall first make application to the City of Mason upon the forms
prescribed by the City therefor. An annual application, due not later than
December 31st of each year, and fee payment shall be made at the City of Mason,
6000 Mason-Montgomery Road, Mason, Ohio. Each such application shall include a
filing fee of $250.00 which shall be nonrefundable. Each application must be
completed in its entirety upon being filed with the City. The completed
application shall include the following information:
      (1)   The proposed location of the massage establishment;
      (2)   The full name and address of any person applying for the permit,
including any partner or limited partner of a partnership applicant, any
officer or director of a corporate applicant, and any stockholder holding more
than two percent of the stock of a corporate applicant, the date of birth and
Social Security number of each individual, and the federal identification
number of any business entity;
      (3)   Written authorization for an investigation into the criminal record
of any person applying for a permit, specifically that all persons consent to
criminal background checks by original signature on forms supplied by the City
of Mason and remit the processing costs therefore; and fingerprinting and three
photographs obtained from a law enforcement agency of the City of Mason's
choosing of any person applying for a permit;
      (4)   A printed form, signed by each and every owner of the parcel of
real property which is the proposed location of the massage establishment,
whereby each such owner certifies that he/she/it understands and acknowledges
that a massage establishment will be located on said parcel of real property;
      (5)   Written application for building and/or zoning occupancy permit for
inspection of premises by Building and/or Fire officials to evaluate premises
for compliance with state and local laws governing health, safety and welfare,
as well as for the facilities specifically required by the Chapter, together
with written authorization for an entry upon the premises for purposes of such
investigation, specifically that all persons consent to right of entry by
original signature on forms supplied by the City of Mason and remit the
processing costs therefore;
      (6)   The full name, residence address, date of birth, and Social
Security number of each proposed worker, masseur and masseuse to be employed,
hired or used by the applicant of the massage establishment;
      (7)   The applicant shall additionally file with the City of Mason within
ten working days after the occurrence, any change in the employees, masseurs
and/or masseuses employed, hired or used by the applicant at the massage
establishment.
   (b)   Upon the filing of the application called for by this section, a
representative of the City shall provide to the applicant a copy of this
chapter and all the necessary information and forms concerning massage
establishments and shall obtain a signed acknowledgment from the applicant
acknowledging receipt thereof.
   (c)   Upon the filing of the application called for by this section, the
City of Mason shall have an investigation conducted into the information
contained on the application and shall request the appropriate City of Mason
departments/divisions to conduct an inspection of the proposed massage
establishment in order to insure that it complies with the requirements of this
chapter. The inspection shall take place during regular business hours. The
Safety Director shall request a health and safety report of an inspection of
the premises in question performed not later than ten (10) days after the
City's receipt of the application packet is required. This inspection will
involve applicable health, safety, building and fire prevention codes, and will
be conducted by the appropriate state or local authorities. These authorities
shall certify whether the proposed massage establishment complies with all the
requirements of this chapter and specifically address the following
requirement:
      (1)   Construction of rooms used for toilets, tubs, steam baths and
showers shall be made waterproof with approved waterproof materials and shall
be installed in accordance with the building codes of the City of Mason;
      (2)   All massage tables, bathtubs, shower stalls and steam or bath areas
and floors shall have surfaces which may be readily disinfected;
      (3)   Adequate bathing, dressing and locker facilities shall be provided
for the number of patrons to be served at any given time. In the event male and
female patrons are to be served simultaneously, separate bathing, dressing,
locker and massage room facilities shall be provided;
      (4)   The premises at all times shall have adequate equipment for
disinfection and sterilizing non-disposable instruments and materials used in
the administering of a massage. Such non-disposable instruments and materials
shall be disinfected after use on each patron;
      (5)   Closed cabinets shall be provided and used at all times for the
storage of linen, towels and other materials used in connection with
administering massages. All soiled linens, towels and other materials shall be
kept in properly covered containers or cabinets, which containers or cabinets
shall be kept separate from the clean storage area;
      (6)   Toilet facilities shall be provided in convenient locations. When
employees and patrons of different sexes are on the premises at the same time,
separate toilet facilities shall be provided for each sex;
      (7)   Lavatories or wash basins provided with both hot and cold running
water at all times shall be installed in either the toilet room or a vestibule
immediately adjacent thereto. Lavatories or wash basins shall be provided with
soap and a dispenser and with single-use sanitary towels at all times;
      (8)   The premises shall be equipped with a service sink for custodial
services at all times;
      (9)   The premises shall meet the requirements of all applicable building
codes, safety codes, health codes and fire prevention codes;
      (10)   Price rates for all services shall be displayed at all times in a
conspicuous place open to the public within the massage establishment.
      (11)   No massage establishment shall be located within one thousand
(1,000) feet of any church, school or public playground. For the purpose of
this subsection (f), the word “school” means any school operated by a board of
education, any community school established under Chapter 3314 of the Ohio
Revised Code, or any nonpublic school for which the State Board of Education
prescribes minimum standards under Section 3301.07 of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (12)   A massage establishment license shall not be granted for a
location which is within 2 miles of any other licensed location. At no time
shall there be more than two (2) permits to operate a massage establishment
issued and in force and effect in the City of Mason.
   (d)   An initial permit issued under this section shall expire on December
31st of the year in which it was issued, except that no massage establishment
shall be required to discontinue business because of the failure of the City to
act on a renewal application filed in a timely manner and pending before the
City on the expiration date of said initial permit. Each initial permit shall
contain the name of the applicant, the address of the massage establishment,
and the expiration date of the permit.
   (e)   An initial massage establishment permit may be renewed on an annual
basis. In order to do so, the applicant shall first file a renewal application
with the City of Mason upon the forms prescribed by the City therefor.
Application and fee payment shall be made at the City of Mason, 6000 Mason-
Montgomery Road, Mason, Ohio. Each renewal application shall include an annual
renewal filing fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) which shall be non-
refundable. Each renewal application must be completed in its entirety upon
being filed with the City of Mason. Each renewal application shall be made to
the City of Mason at least thirty days prior to the expiration of the permit
sought to be renewed.
(Ord. 2016-67, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 727.04 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   Any application for an initial permit or a renewed permit sought pursuant to
Section
727.03 of this chapter shall be denied for any of the following reasons:
   (a)   Falsification of any of the information required for the application
or failure to fully complete the application;
   (b)   Failure to pass inspection for any required health, safety, building
or fire prevention requirement or refusal to allow for inspection;
   (c)   Any one of the persons named on the application is not of proper age;
   (d)   Any one of the persons named on the application, or any other person
who has been, or will be, directly or indirectly engaged in the management or
operation of the massage establishment, has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to any crime, anywhere, involving dishonesty, fraud or deceit, within five
years preceding the date of the filing of the application;
   (e)   Any one of the persons named on the application, or any other person
who has been, or will be, directly or indirectly engaged in the management or
operation of the massage establishment, has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to any violation of Ohio R.C. Chapter 2907, or violation of any statute, law,
regulation or ordinance in Ohio or elsewhere that is substantially equivalent
to any offense contained in Ohio R.C. Chapter 2907, within five years preceding
the date of the filing of the application;
   (f)   Any masseur or masseuse employed, working or performing services at
the massage establishment has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
violation of division (D) of Ohio R.C. 503.42;
   (g)   Any one of the persons named on the application, or any other person
who has been, or will be, directly or indirectly engaged in the management or
operation of the massage establishment, has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to any violation of this chapter, or violation of any statute, law, regulation
or ordinance in Ohio or elsewhere that is substantially equivalent to any
offense contained within this chapter, within five years preceding the date of
the filing of the application;
   (h)   Any masseur or masseuse employed, working or performing services at
the massage establishment has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of this chapter, or violation of any statute, law, regulation or
ordinance in Ohio or elsewhere that is substantially equivalent to any offense
contained within this chapter, within five years preceding the application;
   (i)   That the operation of the massage establishment as proposed by the
applicant will not comply with all applicable laws and codes of the City of
Mason;
   (j)   That the issuance of the permit would exceed the maximum number of
massage establishment permits authorized to be issued and in force and effect
pursuant to this chapter;
   (k)   Any one of the persons named on the application, or any other person
who has been, or will be, directly or indirectly engaged in the management or
operation of the massage establishment, has employed, hired or made use of a
masseur, masseuse or other person who was coerced or forced to act as a
masseur, masseuse or other worker against that individual's will and volition.
(Ord. 2016-67, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 727.05 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   An initial or renewed massage establishment permit shall be suspended or
revoked for any of the following reasons:
   (a)   Falsification of any of the information required for the application
for the permit, or failure to fully complete such application;
   (b)   Failure to pass inspection for any required health, safety, building
or fire prevention requirement or refusal to allow for inspection;
   (c)   Since the issuance of the permit any one of the persons named on the
application therefor, or any other person who has been directly or indirectly
engaged in the management or operation of the massage establishment, has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to any crime, anywhere, involving dishonesty,
fraud or deceit;
   (d)   Since the issuance of the permit any one of the persons named on the
application therefor, or any other person who has been directly or indirectly
engaged in the management or operation of the massage establishment, has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of Ohio R.C. Chapter 2907, or
violation of any statute, law, regulation or ordinance in Ohio or elsewhere
that is substantially equivalent to any offense contained in Ohio R.C. Chapter
2907;
   (e)   Since the issuance of the permit any masseur or masseuse employed,
working or performing services at the massage establishment has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (D) of Ohio R.C. 503.42;
   (f)   Since the issuance of the permit any one of the persons named on the
application therefor, or any other person who has been directly or indirectly
engaged in the management or operation of the massage establishment, has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of this chapter, or violation
of any statute, law, regulation or ordinance in Ohio or elsewhere that is
substantially equivalent to any offense contained within this chapter;
   (g)   Since the issuance of the permit any masseur or masseuse employed,
working or performing services at the massage establishment has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to any violation of this chapter, or violation of any
statute, law, regulation or ordinance in Ohio or elsewhere that is
substantially equivalent to any offense contained within this chapter;
   (h)   Since the issuance of the permit the operation of the massage
establishment has not complied with all applicable laws and codes of the City
of Mason;
   (i)   Since the issuance of the permit any one of the persons named on the
application, or any other person who was directly or indirectly engaged in the
management or operation of the massage establishment, employed, hired or made
use of a masseur, masseuse or other person who was coerced or forced to act as
a masseur, masseuse or other worker against that individual's will and
volition.
   (j)   Any violation of this section shall be cause for the suspension of the
permit for not more than thirty (30) days in the first instance. Any subsequent
violation of this section shall be cause for additional suspension or
revocation of the permit. Before suspending or revoking any permit pursuant to
this section, the permit holder shall be given at least ten (10) days written
notice of the charges against the permit holder and the opportunity for a
public hearing thereon before the Manager of the City of Mason or the Safety
Director if acting as the Manager's designated agent therefor.
(Ord. 2016-67, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 727.06 APPLICATION FOR MASSEUR OR MASSEUSE LICENSE; EXPIRATION AND CONTENTS.
   (a)   Any individual desiring to perform services as a masseur or masseuse
within the City of Mason shall first make application to the City of Mason upon
the forms prescribed by the City therefor. Application and fee payment shall be
made at the City of Mason, 6000 Mason-Montgomery Road, Mason, Ohio. Each such
application shall include a filing fee of $250.00 which shall be nonrefundable.
Each application must be completed in its entirety upon being filed with the
City of Mason. The completed application shall include the following
information:
      (1)   The results of a physical examination performed by a licensed
physician within thirty days of the application certifying that the applicant
is free from contagious or communicable diseases;
      (2)   The full name, date of birth, weight, height, color of hair and
eyes, present address, how long at present address, and Social Security number
of the applicant, and the last previous employer of the applicant;
      (3)   Written authorization for an investigation into the criminal record
of the individual applying for the license, which will require the applicant to
make an appointment with a law enforcement agency of the City of Mason's
choosing to be photographed and fingerprinted for the background investigation;
      (4)   That the applicant is at least twenty-one years of age and proper
proof thereof (i.e. a certified birth certificate, driver's license, passport
or state identification);
      (5)   The applicant's immigration and work authorization status and
proper proof thereof;
      (6)   Any other information determined by the City of Mason to be
necessary.
   (b)   Upon the filing of the application called for by this section, a
representative of the City shall provide to the applicant a copy of this
chapter and all necessary information and forms concerning masseurs or
masseuses and shall obtain a signed acknowledgment from the applicant
acknowledging receipt thereof.
   (c)   Upon the filing of the application called for by this section, the
City of Mason shall have an investigation conducted on the information
contained on the application.
   (d)   An initial license issued under this section to a masseur or masseuse
shall expire one year after the date of issuance of same, except that no
masseur or masseuse shall be required to discontinue performing massages
because of the failure of the City to act on a renewal application filed in a
timely manner and pending before the City on the expiration date of said
initial license.
      (1)   Each license shall contain the full name of the licensee, a color
photograph and a brief description of the licensee and the expiration date of
the license. The license shall be in the form prescribed by the City.
      (2)   An initial masseur or masseuse license may be renewed on an annual
basis. In order to do so, the applicant shall first file a renewal application
with the City of Mason upon the forms prescribed by the City therefor.
Application and fee payment shall be made at the City of Mason 6000 Mason-
Montgomery Road, Mason, Ohio. Each renewal application shall include an annual
renewal filing fee of $250.00 which shall be non-refundable. Each renewal
application must be completed in its entirety upon filing with the City of
Mason. Each renewal application shall be made to the City of Mason at least
twenty days prior to the expiration of the license sought to be renewed. The
applicant shall include with the renewal application: the results of a physical
examination performed by a licensed physician within thirty days of the renewal
application certifying that the applicant is free from contagious or
communicable diseases; and any other relevant documentation and proof.
(Ord. 2016-67, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 727.07 DENIAL OF MASSEUR OR MASSEUSE LICENSE.
   Any application for an initial license or a renewed license sought pursuant
to Section
727.06 of this chapter shall be denied for any of the following reasons:
   (a)   Falsification of any of the information required for the application,
or failure to fully complete the application;
   (b)   The applicant is under twenty-one years of age;
   (c)   The applicant has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation
of Ohio R.C. Chapter 2907, or violation of any statute, law, regulation or
ordinance in Ohio or elsewhere that is substantially equivalent to any offense
contained in Ohio R.C. Chapter 2907, within five years preceding the date of
the filing of the application;
   (d)   The applicant has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of division (D) of Ohio R.C. 503.42;
   (e)   The applicant has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation
of this chapter, or violation of any statute, law, regulation or ordinance in
Ohio or elsewhere that is substantially equivalent to any offense contained
within this chapter, within five years preceding the date of the filing of the
application.
   (f)   The applicant has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any crime,
anywhere, involving dishonesty, fraud or deceit, within five years preceding
the date of the filing of the application.
   (g)   The applicant is not authorized to be in the United States of America
and working.
   (h)   The applicant fails to meet or comply with any required qualification
or condition.
(Ord. 2016-67, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 727.08 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   An initial or renewed masseur or masseuse license shall be revoked for any
of the following reasons:
   (a)   Falsification of any of the information required for the application
for the license, or failure to fully complete the application;
   (b)   Since the issuance of the license the applicant has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to any violation of Ohio R.C. Chapter 2907, or violation of
any statute, law, regulation or ordinance in Ohio or elsewhere that is
substantially equivalent to any offense contained in Ohio R.C. Chapter 2907;
   (c)   Since the issuance of the license the applicant has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to any crime, anywhere, involving dishonesty, fraud or
deceit;
   (d)   Since the issuance of the license the applicant has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (D) of Ohio R.C. 503.42;
   (e)   Since the issuance of the license the applicant has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to any violation of this chapter, or violation of any
statute, law, regulation or ordinance in Ohio or elsewhere that is
substantially equivalent to any offense contained within this chapter;
   (f)   Since the issuance of the license the applicant has lost his or her
authorization to be in the United States of America and working.
   Before revoking any license pursuant to this section, the license holder
shall be given at least ten (10) days written notice of the charges against the
license holder. The written notice shall be hand delivered to the licensed
premises and mailed via regular U.S. mail to the address appearing on the
license application and shall be deemed served upon mailing.
(Ord. 2016-67, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 727.09 DISPLAY OF PERMIT OR LICENSE; INSPECTIONS; CLIENT IDENTIFICATION AND
RECORD.
   (a)   Each massage establishment permit holder shall display at all times,
and in a conspicuous place open to the public within the massage establishment,
his/her/its current permit so that the same may be readily seen by persons upon
entering the premises.
   (b)   Each masseur or masseuse shall display at all times, and in a
conspicuous place open to the public within the massage establishment, his or
her current license so that the same may be readily seen by persons upon
entering the premises.
   (c)   The Safety Director, or his/her representatives, shall, from time to
time, make an inspection of each massage establishment granted a permit for the
purpose of determining that the provisions of this chapter and other applicable
laws and regulations are being complied with. Such inspections shall be made at
reasonable times and in a reasonable manner, during regular business hours. No
permit holder shall fail to allow such inspection officer or official access to
the premises or hinder such officer or official in any manner.
   (d)   Other operating requirements.
      (1)   Every portion of a massage establishment, including appliances and
apparatus, shall be kept clean and operated in a sanitary condition at all
times.
      (2)   All massage establishments shall be provided at all times with
clean, laundered sheets and towels in sufficient quantity, and the sheets and
towels shall be laundered after each use thereof and stored in a sanitary
manner.
      (3)   All walls, ceilings, floors, pools, showers, bathtubs, steam rooms,
and other physical facilities of a massage establishment shall be in good
repair and maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all times. Wet and
dry heat rooms, steam or vapor cabinets, shower compartments and toilet rooms
shall be thoroughly cleaned and disinfected each day the business is in
operation. Bathtubs and showers shall be thoroughly cleaned and disinfected
after each use. When carpeting is used on the floors, it shall be kept dry at
all times.
      (4)   Oils, creams, lotions or other preparations used in administering
massages in massage establishments shall be kept in clean closed containers or
cabinets.
      (5)   Eating in the massage work area of any massage establishment is not
permitted. Animals shall not be permitted in the massage work area of any
massage establishment at any time.
      (6)   Each masseur and masseuse shall wash his or her hands in hot
running water, using a proper soap or disinfectant, before administering a
massage to any person.
      (7)   A masseur or masseuse at a massage establishment licensed hereunder
shall, before agreeing to provide a massage, first request photo identification
in the form of a state issued identification card, a state issued driver's
license or any other form of government issued photo identification that
provides the name, address and date of birth of the person seeking to obtain a
massage. The masseur or masseuse shall create a paper copy of the
identification so provided and shall further record the name, address, date of
birth and telephone number of the person seeking the massage in a log to be
maintained on the premises. A masseur or masseuse shall not provide any massage
to a person seeking a massage at a massage establishment if that person fails
or refuses, for any reason, to present the photo identification required
herein.
      (8)   No massage establishment shall be or remain open for business,
operate or provide massages at any time between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on
any day. No person shall allow a massage establishment to be open or to remain
open for business, to operate or to provide massages at anytime between 12:00
midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
(Ord. 2016–67, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 727.10 TRANSFER OF PERMITS OR LICENSES.
   (a)   No massage establishment permit or masseur or masseuse license shall
be assignable or transferable to another person or another location.
   (b)   The change of location of a massage establishment shall require the
submission of a new application and the issuance of a new permit therefor.
(Ord. 2016-67, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 727.11 HEARINGS; RECORDS; APPEALS.
   (a)   Neither the Manager nor any other proper official need hold any
hearing in connection with the denial of a permit to operate a massage
establishment or a masseur or masseuse license. The City shall maintain a
complete record of any decision made pursuant to this chapter.
   (b)   Any denial, suspension or revocation issued pursuant to this chapter
shall be in writing and mailed to the address appearing on the application via
regular U.S. mail. It shall be deemed served upon mailing.
   (c)   Any denial, suspension or revocation of a license issued under this
section may be appealed to the City Council by written notice within ten (10)
days of the date of mailing of such notice of denial, suspension or revocation.
Unless the applicant requests a longer period, the Council must hold a hearing
on the appeal within fourteen (14) days and must issue a decision affirming or
reversing the denial or revocation within five (5) days after the hearing.
During the time between the date of the denial, suspension or revocation of a
license and the date of the City Council decision affirming or reversing the
denial, suspension or revocation, the decision shall remain in full force and
effect. The City and the applicant may present witnesses and evidence in favor
of upholding or reversing the decision to deny the applicant a license.
   (d)   In the event that the Council upholds a denial, suspension or
revocation of a license under this section, the applicant may pursue an appeal
to the Warren County Court of Common Pleas pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 2506.
The failure of the Council to render a decision on the appeal within the time
prescribed in subsection (a) above shall be considered an affirmance of the
denial or revocation of the license and the applicant may pursue an appeal to
the Warren County Court of Common Pleas pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 2506.
(Ord. 2016-67, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 727.12 DEPOSIT OF FEES.
   The City of Mason shall deposit the fees collected by the City for massage
establishment permits and masseur and masseuse licenses into the City's General
Fund, and first use the fees for the cost of administering and enforcing this
chapter.
(Ord. 2016-67, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 727.13 SEVERABLE.
   If any provision of a section of
Chapter 727 or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held
invalid, the invalidity does not affect the other provisions or applications of
the section or related sections which can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
(Ord. 2016-67, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 727.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree. Each and every separate violation as well as each and every
date of violation shall constitute a separate offense, subject to per diem
penalty as may be imposed in the sound discretion of the Court.
(Ord. 2016-67, passed 6-13-2016)
PART NINE: STREETS, UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SERVICES CODE
      TITLE ONE - Public Works Improvements: Streets, Sidewalks, Sewer and
Water Facilities
         Chap.
901. Material and Construction Standards
         Chap.
905. Sewer Pipe
         Chap.
907. Manholes; Stormwater Inlets
         Chap.
909. Water Mains; Valves; Fire Hydrants; Service Lines
         Chap.
911. Sidewalks
         Chap.
921. Variances; Validity
      TITLE THREE - Streets, Sidewalks and Other Public Areas
         Chap.
931. Cutting Paved Surfaces; Work in Right-of-Way; Excavations Generally
         Chap.
932.   Small Cell Facilities and Wireless Support Structures
         Chap.
939. Landscaping and Street Trees
      TITLE FIVE - Utilities
         Chap.
941. Water Systems
         Chap.
942. Sanitary Sewer Systems
         Chap.
943. Public and Private Sewers, Rules and Regulations
         Chap.
947. Western Row Road Drainage Area
         Chap.
949. Industrial Pretreatment Regulations and Administrative Procedures
         Chap.
951. Stormwater Management Utility
      TITLE SEVEN - Other Public Services
         Chap.
961. Rubbish and Waste Collection
         Chap.
963. Public Parks
         Chap.
965. Public Contracts
         Chap.
967. Mason Community Center
***** TITLE ONE: PUBLIC WORKS IMPROVEMENTS: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, SEWER AND WATER
FACILITIES *****
CHAPTER 901: MATERIAL AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
Section
901.01   Material and construction standards
Cross-reference:
   Concrete sewer pipe, see §
905.02
   Material and construction standards, see §
901.01
   Variances, see §
921.01
   Vitrified sewer pipe, see §
905.01
   Water main pipe, see §
909.02
Statutory reference:
   Contracts for improvements work, see R.C. §§ 153.50 et seq.
§ 901.01 MATERIAL AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   Refer to the latest edition of the City of Mason Construction Standards,
Standard Construction Detail Sheet and the Ohio Department of Transportation,
Construction and Materials Specifications. For provisions regarding additional
concrete and gravel fill and for discrepancies between City of Mason Standards,
Standard Construction Detail Sheet and the Ohio Department of Transportation,
Construction and Materials Specifications, please refer to plans as approved by
the City Service Director, City Engineer or Public Utilities Director.
CHAPTER 905: SEWER PIPE
Section
905.01   Sanitary sewer pipe and appurtenances
905.02   Jacking and boring
905.99   Penalty
Cross -reference:
   Excavation permit, see §
931.01
   Manholes, see §
907.01
   Sewer use, see
Ch. 943
§ 905.01 SANITARY SEWER PIPE AND APPURTENANCES.
   (a)   Work included.
      (1)   All sanitary sewer pipe and appurtenances shall conform with the
most current editions of City of Mason Public Utilities Department Water and
Sewer Construction Rules and Regulations and Standard Construction Drawings.
The contractor shall, under this item, furnish pipe and joint materials and lay
pipe, perform special tamping and backfill, connect house services and
completely lay and construct, at the locations shown on the drawings or as
directed, all sanitary sewer and drain pipe of the sizes specified or as shown
which are necessary for the proper completion of the work included under the
contract.
      (2)   This item does not include excavation and backfill, the removal and
restoration of pavement, the removal of surplus excavation or the cleanup of
streets and premises after construction.
   (b)   Quality of pipe.
      (1)   All pipe and specials shall be of the best quality, and of the
sizes and dimensions shown or specified.
      (2)   No old pipes or specials that have been previously used shall be
allowed in the work specified herein.
      (3)   All pipes shall meet the requirements of the American Society for
Testing and Materials, which, except as herein modified, are hereby made a part
of these specifications.
   (c)   Pipe dimension. The sizes of pipe and specials mentioned herein or
shown on the drawings refer to inside diameters. Straight pipe shall be
furnished in minimum lengths of ten feet.
   (d)   Encasement. If required by the Public Utilities Director, sewer pipe
shall be encased or supported, at locations as directed, with concrete as
specified. Concrete so used shall be paid for under the provisions except that
encasement of the vertical drop pipes and the tees and ells used in
construction drop manholes are parts of the structure and are included in the
price bid for drop manholes.
   (e)   Laying pipe.
      (1)   Trenches shall be excavated as described in these specifications.
The bottom shall be shaped to receive the pipe and ample holes dug at the
joints. When rock is encountered in the trench, the bottom shall be excavated
below grade sufficiently to ensure that the pipe shall not come in contact with
the rock. Refill to grade shall be made with compacted fine material. No pipe
shall be laid in the absence of the Inspector, unless otherwise approved.
      (2)   All pipe shall be laid to conform to the lines and grades given by
the Public Utilities Director, starting at the low point with hub ends up-grade
and the first length anchored to prevent movement. Appropriate equipment shall
be used to transfer grades from stakes to the flow line of the sewer pipe. Pipe
shall be laid so as to secure firm and even bearing for its full length and so
as to secure close joints and continuous invert. Approved bedding and backfill
shall be tamped around each pipe as laid.
      (3)   Water shall not be allowed to accumulate in the ditch as pipe is
being laid nor shall water be allowed to flow away through newly laid pipe.
      (4)   Pits or sumps shall be dug at intervals spaced according to
conditions and the water removed from the pits by pumping. Sewer pipe shall not
be laid in water or with wet joints regardless of the type of pipe or type of
joint used.
      (4)   Pipe disturbed during or after laying shall be relaid immediately.
      (5)   At the close of each day’s work, and at all other times when pipe
is not being laid, the end and laterals shall be protected with a close fitting
stopper.
      (6)   Wye branches for connection shall be furnished and laid at
locations as directed.
   (f)   Joints.
      (1)   All pipe shall be coupled according to ASTM requirements and pipe
industry recommendations, and shall be approved by the Public Utilities
Director. All coupling ends of pipe shall be smooth and concentric.
      (2)   Joint collars broken or deformed from any cause shall be rejected.
Patching of broken or deformed pipe will not be permitted. Sewer pipe with
broken or deformed joints shall be removed from the site of the work and not
left with other pipe.
   (g)   House services.
      (1)   All house services shall extend from the main sewer to the property
line through all utility easements and shall be laid with six-inch minimum
approved pipe only, irrespective of the type of pipe chosen for the main sewer.
One wye shall connect the main with the six-inch service line. The service line
shall be laid approximately at right angles to the main line and the outer end
shall be closed with a stopper. A two by two-inch or one by two-inch timber
shall extend from the end of the service line to ground level.
      (2)   House services shall be laid at a grade not less than one-fourth
inch in one foot and not more than one inch in one foot unless otherwise
ordered by the Public Utilities Director.
      (3)   Placing, jointing, tamping and backfilling shall be as described
herein.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 905.02 JACKING AND BORING.
   If required by the Engineer, a main sewer or house service shall be jacked
or bored in order to prevent disturbing the surface of the area being
excavated. Depending upon conditions, the Engineer may also require a steel or
other type of casing in which the carrier pipe shall be inserted.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 905.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$150 for each offense.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
CHAPTER 907: MANHOLES; STORMWATER INLETS
Section
907.01   Manholes
907.02   Stormwater inlets
907.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Material and construction standards, see §
901.01
§ 907.01 MANHOLES.
   (a)   Work included. Under this item, the contractor shall furnish all
materials and labor necessary and shall build manholes where shown or ordered
and as shown and specified.
   (b)   Materials and construction. Manholes shall have a minimum inside
diameter of four feet with minimum eight-inch walls and shall be built of
precast concrete unless otherwise specified by the Public Utilities Director.
Interior joints shall be sealed in accordance with the city’s standard and
steps shall be in accordance with the city’s standard.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 907.02 STORMWATER INLETS.
   (a)   Work included. Under this item the contractor shall furnish all labor,
materials, tools and equipment necessary and shall construct the required
inlets complete with covers as shown, including excavation, backfill, setting
of precast structure and placing of the outlet pipe.
   (b)   Materials. Inlets shall be designed according to ODOT Specifications
and shall be built of precast concrete unless otherwise specified by the
Engineer.
   (c)   Construction.
      (1)   Inlets shall be built to the shape and size shown on the contract
and drawing. The bottom shall slope toward the outlet pipe. The top surfaces of
the structure shall be smoothed so as to receive the covers without rocking.
      (2)   Space around the inlet structure shall be backfilled and tamped.
All forms and debris shall first be removed. The cover shall be put in place
and the inlet boarded up unless otherwise directed by the Engineer.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 907.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$150 for each offense.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
CHAPTER 909: WATER MAINS; VALVES; FIRE HYDRANTS; SERVICE LINES
Section
909.01   Water main excavation and backfill
909.02   Ductile iron pipe; fittings; inspections; laying pipe; pipe joints
909.03   Testing
909.04   Valves and valve boxes and chambers
909.05   Fire hydrants
909.06   House service lines
909.07   Jacking and boring
909.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Material and construction standards, see §
901.01
§ 909.01 WATER MAIN EXCAVATION AND BACKFILL.
   (a)   Work included.
      (1)   All water main pipe and appurtenances shall conform with the most
current editions of City of Mason Public Utilities Department Water and Sewer
Construction Rules and Regulations and Standard Construction Drawings. The
contractor shall make all excavation required for constructing and connecting
the pipe lines including valves, valve chambers, fire hydrants and other
appurtenances to the lines and grades given by the Public Utilities Director.
      (2)   Excavation and backfill shall include the loosening, excavating,
loading, removing, transporting and disposing of all materials, wet or dry,
necessary to be removed for the purposes of constructing the pipe lines.
   (b)   Trench excavations. Trench excavation shall include all excavation and
backfill necessary for the laying of the pipe in trenches and shall be made to
a depth as will permit the laying of pipe with a cover of 48 inches below the
finish grade of the street or as shown on the plan.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 909.02 DUCTILE IRON PIPE; FITTINGS; INSPECTIONS; LAYING PIPE; PIPE JOINTS.
   (a)   Ductile iron pipe and fittings. Under this item, the contractor shall
furnish and place all the materials for and shall properly connect, at the
locations shown on the plans or as directed, all ductile iron water pipe, all
standard fittings and all special fittings necessary for the completion of the
work.
   (b)   Mechanical joint ductile iron pipe. Mechanical joint type ductile iron
pipe shall be Class 52 and shall be equipped with compression joints.
   (c)   Inspection. Makers of all ductile iron pipe and fittings used on the
work, shall furnish a sworn statement of inspection and testing in accordance
with the requirements of the above mentioned specifications of the AWWA. All
ductile iron pipe and fittings will be subject to inspection and approval by
the Public Utilities Director after delivery and no broken, cracked, misshapen,
imperfectly coated or otherwise damaged or unsatisfactory pipe shall be used.
   (d)   Laying pipe.
      (1)   Suitable tools and appliances for the safe and convenient handling
of the pipes and fittings shall be used. Care shall be taken to prevent damage
to the inside and outside coatings of the pipe. Pipe which is defective in any
respect shall not be laid. Pipe found to be defective after laying shall be
removed and replaced with sound pipe or fittings at the expense of the
contractor.
      (2)   Pipe and fittings shall be cleaned before laying and kept clean
until the work is completed. Pipe shall be laid to conform with the lines and
grades given by the Public Utilities Director.
      (3)   Pipe shall be laid on good foundations. Bedding and backfill shall
be approved by the Public Utilities Director. If required by the Public
Utilities Director, additional excavation and refill to grade with suitable
materials shall be made. The Public Utilities Director may require blocking at
two points along each length of pipe. Blocking shall be left in place.
      (4)   Where pipe cutting is required to fit in the line, cuts shall be at
right angles to the axis of the pipe and so as to leave a smooth end.
   (e)   Pipe joints. In joining mechanical ductile iron pipe, the pipe shall
be connected one section at a time according to city standards.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 909.03 TESTING.
   All ductile iron pipe shall be tested after laying. The testing shall be
supervised by an authorized representative of the city. Pipe shall be tested in
sections and no joint shall be covered or the trench backfilled until the pipe
has been tested and approved.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 909.04 VALVES AND VALVE BOXES AND CHAMBERS.
   (a)   Work included.
      (1)   The contractor shall furnish all material for and shall properly
set in place all valves of the sizes and types specified or shown or ordered to
be installed which are necessary for the proper completion of the work.
      (2)   The contractor shall make all necessary excavation and shall
furnish a valve box or chamber at each valve, all as shown on the plans,
specified or ordered by the Public Utilities Director.
   (b)   Valves.
      (1)   Valves shall conform to city standards and shall conform to the
latest AWWA specifications, for valves of their type.
      (2)   All valves except auxiliary valves attached to fire hydrants shall
be bell and spigot type or mechanical joint type conforming to the type of pipe
used.
      (3)   All valves shall be tested and any joint or valve found to leak
shall be made watertight and if damaged or faulty shall be repaired at the
expense of the contractor.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 909.05 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (a)   Work included. Under this item, the contractor shall furnish all
materials, labor and tools and shall furnish, place and connect to the main all
fire hydrants as shown or specified or as ordered.
   (b)   Fire hydrant specifications.
      (1)   Fire hydrants shall conform to city standards and shall conform to
the specifications of the American Water Works Association. The barrel of the
hydrant shall have a breakable safety section just above the ground line.
      (2)   Hydrants shall have a main valve opening of four and one-half
inches and shall have two, two and one-half inch hose connections and one,
four-inch steamer connection, all with chained caps. Hose connections shall be
threaded with National Standard Thread; steamer connections shall be five
inches storz connections compatible to the City Fire Department equipment.
      (3)   Hydrants shall be fitted with an auxiliary gate valve and valve
box.
      (4)   The operating nut shall open to the right and shall be a one and
one-third pentagon head.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 909.06 HOUSE SERVICE LINES.
   (a)   Work included.
      (1)   Under this item the contractor shall furnish all labor and
materials for and shall install and connect house service pipe lines as shown
or ordered. When a main is tapped, the house service shall extend from the
water main to the property line through all utility easements.
      (2)   Each service line shall consist of one corporation cock tapped into
the main, a copper service pipe extending to the property line and one service
cock at the property line and a cast iron service box protecting the service
cock. Sizes and types shall conform to city standards.
   (b)   Corporation cocks. Corporation cocks shall be cast brass or bronze
with Mueller thread and inserted in the main. The outlet end shall be fitted to
receive copper tubing.
   (c)   Copper tubing. Copper tubing for service lines shall be three-fourths
inch unless otherwise required and shall be seamless copper and shall meet
United States government Type K Specification WW-T-799 or its latest revision.
   (d)   Service cocks. Service cocks shall be of cast brass or bronze, fitted
to receive copper tubing. They shall be of the inverted key way with stop pins
set for quarter turns for full opening.
   (e)   Service boxes. Service boxes shall conform to city standard. The lid
shall be marked “WATER” and secured to the shaft with a brass or bronze bolt.
The footpiece shall fit over the service cock.
   (f)   Laying service lines.
      (1)   All applicable provisions of these codified ordinances on
excavation and backfill shall apply to the laying of house services. The tap at
the main shall be made at an angle of 45 degrees above the horizontal. The
tubing and service cock shall be connected and water turned on. The trench
shall not be backfilled until the service is inspected and all leaks corrected.
      (2)   No part of the corporation cock, the copper tubing or the service
cock shall be less than 42 inches nor more than 60 inches below the finish
grade.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 909.07 JACKING AND BORING.
   If required by the Engineer a water main or house service shall be jacked or
bored in order to prevent disturbing the surface of the area being excavated.
Depending upon conditions, the Engineer may also require a steel or other type
of casing in which the carrier pipe will be installed.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 909.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$150 for each offense.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
CHAPTER 911: SIDEWALKS
Section
911.01   Monolithic concrete sidewalk construction
911.02   Expansion joints
911.03   Valve box adjustment; damaged service line or valve box
911.04   Basis of payment
Cross-reference:
   Material and construction standards, see §
901.01
§ 911.01 MONOLITHIC CONCRETE SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   (a)   (1)   The construction of concrete sidewalk shall include excavation
below the finish grade of the walk, smoothing and compaction of the sub-base;
furnishing, placing and finishing concrete, application of curing agent,
backfill and grading and all other materials and labor not herein provided but
necessary to complete the work as specified and shown.
      (2)   The trench for the walk shall be excavated for a depth of five
inches below the finish grade of the walk. The bottom of the excavation shall
be tamped to secure a firm smooth surface. No gravel sub-base will be required
except that if the excavation is made below subgrade depth, it shall be
refilled with compacted sand.
      (3)   Side forms five inches high shall be set to the finish grade and
firmly braced and secured. The sub-base shall be moistened before placing
concrete.
(Ord. E-81, passed 8-5-1959)
   (b)   (1)   Concrete shall be placed and screeded even with the top of the
forms. No top course shall be placed except that a small amount of one to two
mortar may be used to improve the surface.
      (2)   No dry application of sand or cement or a mixture thereof shall be
applied. At the proper time after placing concrete, the walk shall be floated
with a wood float and with a steel trowel to obtain a plane surface that is not
slippery after hardening. Excessive troweling to bring the fines to the surface
will be avoided. An approved commercial curing agent shall be applied after
finishing.
(Ord. 90-43, passed 5-14-1990)
   (c)   Sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with the city’s
standards.
(Ord. E-81, passed 8-5-1959)
§ 911.02 EXPANSION JOINTS.
   (a)   Expansion joints in sidewalk shall be made of bituminous saturated
felt or fiber and shall be not less than one-half inch thick. They shall be so
placed as to completely fill the joint to within one-fourth inch of the surface
of the sidewalk. An expansion joint shall be placed at intervals of not more
than 50 feet and also at all points of curve in the curb and gutter, at the
first joint on each side of inlets, at all points where the walk contacts the
curb, where new construction abuts old construction and at any other points
shown on the plans or as directed by the Engineer.
   (b)   Expansion joints will be paid for at the unit price bid per lineal
foot for the number of feet of expansion joint actually installed.
(Ord. E-81, passed 8-5-1959)
§ 911.03 VALVE BOX ADJUSTMENT; DAMAGED SERVICE LINE OR VALVE BOX.
   Where residences have been constructed or where water or gas services have
been installed, the valve boxes for these services shall be found and adjusted
to the finish grade. No additional compensation will be paid for adjustment of
valve boxes to grade. Gas, water or sewer service pipes and valve boxes broken
by the contractor’s operations shall be repaired or replaced at his or her
expense.
(Ord. E-81, passed 8-5-1959)
§ 911.04 BASIS OF PAYMENT.
   (a)   The unit price bid for monolithic concrete sidewalk shall include
excavation; all backfill and grading around the walk and between the walk and
curb; all curved walk, the removal of trees, bushes, posts and other
obstructions; the adjustment of valve boxes to grade; the furnishing and
application of an approved liquid curing agent; and shall further include the
furnishing of all materials and labor necessary for the completion of the
sidewalk as specified and shown.
   (b)   Payment will be made for the actual number of square feet of sidewalk
installed at the unit price bid per square foot.
(Ord. E-81, passed 8-5-1959)
CHAPTER 921: VARIANCES; VALIDITY
Section
921.01   Council may authorize variances
921.02   Validity; intent of Council
§ 921.01 COUNCIL MAY AUTHORIZE VARIANCES.
   Council may authorize variance or variances from the provisions of this
Title One - Public Works Improvements: Streets, Sidewalks, Sewer and Water
Facilities of this Part Nine - Streets, Utilities and Public Services Code as
will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to special
conditions, a literal enforcement of these provisions would result in a serious
practical difficulty. Provided, however, that the purpose and spirit of the
provisions of this Title One of Part Nine - Streets, Utilities and Public
Services Code shall be observed and substantial justice done.
(Ord. E-81, passed 8-5-1959)
§ 921.02 VALIDITY; INTENT OF COUNCIL.
   (a)   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, provision or
part of the provisions of this Title One - Public Works Improvements: Streets,
Sidewalks, Sewer and Water Facilities of this Part Nine - Streets, Utilities
and Public Services Code is for any reason found to be unconstitutional,
illegal or invalid, the unconstitutionality, illegality or invalidity shall not
affect or impair any of the remaining sections, subsections, sentences,
clauses, phrases, provisions or parts of the provisions under this Title One of
Part Nine Streets, Utilities and Public Services Code.
   (b)   It is the intent of Council that this Title One - Public Works
Improvements: Streets, Sidewalks, Sewer and Water Facilities of this Part Nine
- Streets, Utilities and Public Services Code would have been adopted had the
unconstitutional, illegal or invalid section, subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase, provision or part thereof not been included therein.
(Ord. E-81, passed 8-5-1959)
***** TITLE THREE: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC AREAS *****
CHAPTER 931: CUTTING PAVED SURFACES; WORK IN RIGHT-OF-WAY; EXCAVATIONS
GENERALLY
Section
931.01   Permit required
931.02   Compliance with specifications
931.03   Fee
931.04   Bond
931.05   Restoration
931.06   Barriers around excavations
931.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Excavation barricades and warning lights, see §
521.03
   Material and construction standards, see §
901.01
   Obstruction of sidewalks, see §
521.04
   Tracking mud, dropping loads on streets, see §
339.08
§ 931.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (a)   Whenever any person intends to do any work in the city’s right-of-way,
including cutting or boring under any paved surface (roads, streets, alleys,
sidewalks, curbs, gutters or any other paved surface) he or she shall first
obtain a permit from the City Engineer under the terms and conditions set forth
in this chapter. The City Engineer may waive any or all sections of this
chapter for any projects undertaken by, or on behalf of, the city or the State
Department of Transportation, including maintenance and/or repair projects.
   (b)   PERSON means any individual, firm, company, association, society,
corporation or group, including public utilities, gas companies, electric
companies, telephone companies, municipal authorities and other governmental
bodies or officers.
(Ord. 99-66, passed 4-26-1999)
§ 931.02 COMPLIANCE WITH SPECIFICATIONS.
   Any work done in the right-of-way shall be done in accordance with the
standards and requirements of the latest edition of the City of Mason
Construction Standards and the State Department of Transportation, Construction
and Materials Specifications, except that all cuttings shall be backfilled as
specified by the City Engineer. Pavement used shall be of the same material as
the surface cut. Plans for the proposed cutting shall be attached to the permit
application and submitted for approval to the City Engineer.
(Ord. 99-66, passed 4-26-1999)
§ 931.03 FEE.
   A fee shall be paid to the city with each permit application required under
§
931.01 herein. The fee shall be as established and set forth in the fee
schedule in Part One - Title Eleven, Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances.
The amount of the fee shall be as set by ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 99-66, passed 4-26-1999)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 931.04 BOND.
   To insure that any work done within the right-of- way is completed according
to the plans submitted and the specifications required by §
931.02 and that the right-of-way is properly restored, any applicant for a
permit under §
931.01 shall furnish a performance bond in an amount as to be determined by the
City Engineer, but in any event, no less than $10,000 which bond must be
furnished prior to the issuance of any permit. The bond shall be a performance
bond or surety acceptable by the city and shall be filed with the City
Engineer.
(Ord. 99-66, passed 4-26-1999)
§ 931.05 RESTORATION.
   (a)   The opening and restoration of a pavement, sidewalk, curb, driveway or
other surface shall be performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of
the City Engineer, and in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications
approved by Council.
   (b)   All restoration work outside of a paved area shall require seed and
mulch, hydroseeding or sod replacement and shall be performed to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer. The restoration work will not be deemed to
be completed and the performance bond shall not be released until a full stand
of grass is established over the disturbed area. Sediment and erosion control
devices shall be installed to protect adjacent properties as well as the city’s
rights-of-way from the effects of sediment and erosion.
   (c)   Upon failure or refusal of the permit holder to satisfactorily fill
the excavation, restore the surface and/or remove all excess materials within
the time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may declare that the
work has not been properly performed and may proceed without notice to complete
the restoration of the property. In that case, the city may call upon the
performance bond required under §
931.04. The city shall use the funds to complete the restoration of the right-
of-way. If additional funds remain after the restoration is complete, the
remaining funds shall be remitted to the permit holder. If the amount of the
services performed by the city should exceed the amount of the performance bond
the City Manager or other proper administrative officer shall proceed to
collect the remainder due from the permit holder.
(Ord. 99-66, passed 4-26-1999)
§ 931.06 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, bore pit, trench, sidewalk, alley or other public way, shall have the
excavation or opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to
persons or animals. Barricades shall be in conformance with ODOT Item 614 and
ODOT Location and Design Manual, § 500. Road closures, lane closures and/or
sidewalk closures are not permitted without written permission from the City
Engineer.
(Ord. 99-66, passed 4-26-1999)
§ 931.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$1,000 for each offense.
(Ord. 99-66, passed 4-26-1999)
CHAPTER 932: SMALL CELL FACILITIES AND WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES
Section
   
932.01   Definitions
   
932.02   Applicability
§ 932.01 DEFINITIONS.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. Means a small cell facility that is not more than
24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height and that does
not have an exterior antenna more than 11 inches in length suspended on cable
strung between wireless support structures.
   SMALL CELL FACILITY. Means a small cell facility that meets both of the
following requirements:
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of not more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an enclosure of
not more than six cubic feet in volume.
      (2)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility is
cumulatively not more than 28 cubic feet in volume. The calculation of
equipment volume shall not include electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunicat-ions demarcation boxes, grounding equipment, power transfer
switches, cut-off switches, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power
and other services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Means a pole, such as a monopole, either guyed
or self-supporting, street light pole, traffic signal pole, a 15-foot or taller
sign pole, or utility pole capable of
supporting small cell facilities. Wireless support structure excludes all of
the following:
      (1)   A utility pole or other facility owned or operated by a municipal
electric utility.
      (2)   A utility pole or other facility used to supply traction power to
public transit systems, including railways, trams, streetcars, and
trolleybuses.
(Ord. 2019-34, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 932.02 APPLICABILITY.
   Applicants for small cell and micro wireless facilities, or renewals
thereof, shall file an application as required by the City Engineer along with
an application fee. The City Engineer shall determine if the application is in
order in accordance with established administrative policy and shall make a
final determination within 90 days after the date the permit is applied for as
to whether or not such permit should be granted and, if so, under what terms
and conditions. The City Engineer is authorized to promulgate regulations as
allowed per R.C. § 4939.0314 including, but not limited to: design, height,
spacing, location, and co-location.
   (a)   The City Engineer shall promulgate detailed design guidelines with
objective, technically feasible criteria applied in a non-discriminatory manner
that reasonably match the aesthetic and character of the immediate area.
   (b)   The City Engineer shall have authority to update or supplement the
design guidelines to address relevant changes in law, technology, or
administrative procedures.
(Ord. 2019-34, passed 3-25-2019)
CHAPTER 939: LANDSCAPING AND STREET TREES
Section
939.01   Adoption of ordinance by reference
Cross-reference:
   Tree damage, injury, see §
541.06
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate shade trees and shrubbery, see R.C. § 715.20
§ 939.01 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE BY REFERENCE.
   The 2002 Landscaping and Street Tree Ordinance of the city, as set forth on
Exhibit A of Ordinance 2002-61, passed 5-13-2002, is hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of these codified ordinances, the same as if set
forth in full herein.
(Ord. 2002-61, passed 5-13-2002; Ord. 2013-92, passed 11-18-2013; Ord. 2013-92,
passed 11-18-2013)
***** TITLE FIVE: UTILITIES *****
CHAPTER 941: WATER SYSTEMS
Section
941.01   Purpose
941.015   Tap-in permits
941.016   Unauthorized tap-ins prohibited
941.02   Water system expansion fees
941.03   Reserved
941.04   Installation charges for water
941.045   Hardship
941.05   Expansion account
941.06   Extension of water service
941.07   Rates for water service
941.08   Reserved
941.09   Billing for water service
941.10   Responsibility for payment of bills
941.11   General rules; miscellaneous regulations
941.12   Only licensed persons to install, repair or connect water service
lines
941.13   Right to increase minimum charges
941.14   Sale copies
941.15   Water supply backflow prevention and cross connection control
941.16   Fluoridation of water supply
941.17   City Manager authority to limit use
941.18   After-hours call-out charges
941.20   System fee for water service
941.21   Water line and connection assessments
941.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Destruction of trees, shrubs, see §
541.06
   Industrial pretreatment, see
Ch. 949
   Public and private sewer connections required, see §
943.03
   Water bill to contain waste collection charges, see §
961.02(b)
Statutory reference:
   Compulsory water connections, see R.C. §§ 729.06, 743.23
   Management and control of sewerage system, see R.C. §§ 729.50
   Management and control of water works, see R.C. § 743.02 et seq.
   Sewerage rates, see R.C. §§ 729.49, 729.52
§ 941.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter establishes charges and fees for the city water systems.
Charges for special and unusual circumstances not defined in
Chapter 943, this chapter or subsequent amendments are to be determined by the
City Manager. In no event shall a tap-in permit be issued by the City Manager,
to authorize a connection which will serve property with water service until
the charges imposed upon the property under this chapter and which are payable
at the time of the application for the tap-in permit have been paid. No tap-in
permit shall be issued, nor any connection made or maintained which will allow
water service to be provided to areas outside the territorial limits of the
city unless the application is approved by Council.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 941.015 TAP-IN PERMITS.
   (a)   All applications for a tap-in permit shall be made by the owner or
owners of the property to be served. Each application shall state:
      (1)   The address of the owner or owners of the property to be served by
the proposed connection;
      (2)   A description of the property as shown on the County Auditor’s map,
including book, page and parcel number;
      (3)   The total number and types of buildings to be served by the permit
and the number and types of buildings, if any, constructed or to be constructed
outside the territorial limits of the city;
      (4)   The type of service for which the application is being submitted;
and
      (5)   Any other necessary information requested by the City Manager.
   (b)   Upon application for a tap-in permit, the City Manager shall notify
the owner of the property to be served of the charges to be paid under this
chapter before a tap-in permit will be issued.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 941.016 UNAUTHORIZED TAP-INS PROHIBITED.
   No connection to a water line shall be made or maintained which provides
water services to property or premises other than those properties or premises
for which a tap-in permit has been issued.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 941.02 WATER SYSTEM EXPANSION FEES.
   (a)   Residential. The expansion fee for a single-family residence for a
three-fourths inch tap shall be as established and set forth in the fee
schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. For multi-family apartment complexes
(for each family dwelling unit), the expansion fee shall be as established and
set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time. The tap and meter size for residential use
shall be as follows:
 Minimum Tap Size (Inches) Meter Size (Inches)
                         Minimum Tap Size (Inches) Meter Size (Inches)
1-family building        3/4                       3/4
2-family building        3/4                       3/4
3-family building        1                         1
4 and 5 families         1                         1
6 through 8 families     1-1/2                     1-1/2
9 through 12 families    2                         1-1/2
13 through 20 families   2                         2
21 through 50 families   3                         3
51 through 115 families  4                         4
116 through 250 families 6                         6
More than 250 families   8                         8
 
      (1)   For trailer parks, where more than one trailer is served by the
same meter, the expansion charge, tap size and meter size shall be determined
as for apartments.
      (2)   For special purpose apartment projects, such as those intended for
the elderly, containing one- or two-room efficiency units, with the occupancy
rigidly controlled and equipped with only one set of kitchen and bath fixtures,
the expansion charge, tap size and meter size shall be 75% of the size required
in the chart above for multi-family units.
      (3)   For purposes of water system expansion fees the following
facilities shall be considered businesses and pay the expansion charge as set
forth in division (b) hereof: convalescent homes, hospitals, nursing homes,
group homes and housing of elderly other than those as described in division
(a)(2) hereof.
   (b)   Business and industrial.
      (1)   The expansion charge of business and industrial establishments
shall be as established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title
Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time.
      (2)   Council approval required for meters four inches and larger.
   (c)   Special circumstances. At the discretion of the majority of Council,
the expansion charge may be modified in exchange for other consideration such
as pipe extension, pump stations and the like.
   (d)   Fire protection services. No expansion charge shall be paid for fire
protection services.
   (e)   Expansion of present services. The expansion charges for expansion of
present services shall be determined by the difference in meter size according
to rates defined in divisions (a) and (b) of this section.
   (f)   Meter fee.
      (1)   Residential fees. The meter fee for a water meter for a residential
property shall be as established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One
- Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time.
      (2)   Commercial fees. The meter fee for the water meter for a commercial
property shall be based upon the cost of the meter, plus any administrative
charges as determined by the Water Department.
(Ord. 99-58, passed 4-12-1999)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 941.03 RESERVED.
§ 941.04 INSTALLATION CHARGES FOR WATER.
   (a)   Basis of charge. The tap-in charge is based upon the cost of all
material and labor required to make the installation from the service line to
the proper line. This charge is to be paid at the time the water service is
applied for based on the City Manager’s estimate of cost. Each building and
each dwelling unit is to be serviced by a separate water meter and have a
separate and independent connection to the public line. However, apartment
complexes, industrial plants and commercial establishments that cannot be
divided for sale may be serviced by fewer meters than the number of buildings
and number of dwelling units.
(Ord. 90-85, passed 8-13-1990)
   (b)   Tap-in methods. The tap-in may be made in any one of the following two
methods at the discretion of the property owner:
      (1)   Installation by property owner. The property owner may, after
obtaining a tap-in permit, employ a bonded contractor to perform the
installation. The water meter will be furnished by the city at list price, and
an inspection fee as established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One
- Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances will be charged by the city. The
amount of the fee shall be as set by ordinance from time to time. No backfill
shall be made until the work has been inspected by the Public Utilities
Director or his or her representative. If backfill has been performed before
inspection, the line is to be uncovered at the property owner’s expense.
      (2)   Installation by city. The City Manager will employ a qualified
contractor, not necessarily bonded, to perform the installation. The
installation charge will be based upon the actual installation cost, including
material, labor and equipment plus 5% to compensate the city for overhead costs
plus an inspection fee as established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part
One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time. The meter will be furnished by the city at list
price.
(Ord. 99-58, passed 4-12-1999)
   (c)   Installation account.
      (1)   Funds received for installation of water taps are to be paid into a
Water Tap Escrow Account as the case may be. If the actual cost is less than
the estimated cost, a refund will be made by the city to the affected party. If
the cost is higher than estimated, the property owner will be notified of the
additional amount to be paid. If this is not paid within two weeks, water
service will be discontinued.
      (2)   Remaining funds in the escrow accounts will, at periodic intervals,
be transferred by the Finance Director into their respective operating funds.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 941.045 HARDSHIP.
   (a)   Water tap-in charges are to be paid pursuant to §
941.04(a). However, Council may grant an extension of time for payment in the
following cases upon application by the property owner or agent thereof:
      (1)   Unemployment;
      (2)   Catastrophic accident;
      (3)   Poverty and near poverty level income; and/or
      (4)   Any similar circumstance that in the judgment of Council
constitutes a hardship warranting an extension of time for payment.
   (b)   Prior to consideration of the grant of any extension of time, the
property owner or agent thereof, shall file an application to Council on a form
provided for that purpose, which application shall be accompanied by the
following:
      (1)   A detailed statement of current conditions explaining the need for
an extension of time. The statement shall include a description of the
circumstances creating the need; and
      (2)   Verification of the owner’s income in one of the following forms:
         A.   If the owner receives Social Security Income, a Social Security
report showing the amount received in the last 12 months;
         B.   If the owner receives welfare, a welfare report showing the
amount received in the last twelve months; or
         C.   If the owner is otherwise employed, an accurate statement of the
owner’s income of the last 12 months, signed by the owner and a copy of the
last federal tax return filed by the owner.
   (c)   Council may, in its sole discretion, consider all of the circumstances
surrounding the application and reasons therefor and determine a time frame for
payment.
   (d)   If an extension is granted and the person receiving the extension
subsequently defaults on an extended payment plan, the owner’s account will be
subject to disconnection procedures as provided in §
941.10.
(Ord. 90-130, passed 10-22-1990)
§ 941.05 EXPANSION ACCOUNT.
   All sums collected as water expansion fees established in §
941.02 shall be deposited to the credit of a Water System Expansion Fund, which
funds are hereby established and all sums credited to the funds may be used
only for the purpose of water system expansion.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 941.06 EXTENSION OF WATER SERVICE.
   (a)   Extension restrictions.
      (1)   The provisions of this section, unless specifically indicated
otherwise herein, apply to the extension of water services both inside and
outside the city. No extension of water services outside the city limits can be
made without the approval of Council by ordinance.
      (2)   All lines constructed for the extension of water service shall be
extended the entire distance across the property to be served.
   (b)   Plans. After receiving the required approval of Council, extension to
the water system shall be in accordance with one of the following plans:
      (1)   Plan 1. Payment of entire cost in advance. Any one or more property
owners may request the City Manager to determine the feasibility and the
estimated cost of the construction of a water main or extension to serve their
premises. If Council approves the proposed extension and the City Manager’s
estimated construction cost, the property owners may deposit with the city a
sum equal to the estimated cost plus expansion charges defined in §
941.02. The City Manager shall thereupon proceed with the construction. Any
surplus in the deposit amount over and above the actual construction cost shall
be refunded to the owner or owners or their agent. Should the actual
construction cost exceed the deposit amount, the owner or owners shall pay this
excess amount and no tap-in permit shall be issued, no connection made or
maintained to the extension, nor any water service provided until the cost is
paid in full. No extension of service will be approved for less than the entire
frontage of the property of the applicant and the necessary length from an
existing main to that frontage. If in any case, by reason of inadvertence or
oversight, construction shall have been made without compliance with advance
payment requirements, the inadvertence or oversight shall not relieve the
benefitted property owner from the obligation to pay the amount due. In those
cases, no water connection shall be made or water service provided unless and
until the required payments or deposits are made.
      (2)   Plan 2. Construction by owners. Council may permit the owner or
owners of property to be served to arrange for the laying of water main and/or
extension by private contract. Before the permit can be granted, the plans for
the extension must be approved by Council. Prior to starting a project, the
contractor shall furnish a bond as guarantee for each project or section
thereof. The entire water main is to be deeded to the city. Before the
properties to be serviced can tap into the extension, they must secure a tap-in
permit, pay expansion charges as specified in §
941.02, and any installation charges specified in §
941.04.
      (3)   Plan 3. Construction without petition. Whenever Council shall
determine that it is in the best interests of the city to extend the water
lines, Council, by ordinance passed with a three-quarter affirmative vote, may
assess upon abutting, adjacent and contiguous, or other benefitted properties
within the municipality, and an extension line charge shall be imposed in
accordance with division (d) hereof upon properties outside the municipality
which are abutting, adjacent and contiguous or other property to be benefitted
by the extension. The sum due in the form of assessments or extension line
charges are in addition to all other charges imposed by this chapter.
      (4)   Plan 4. Construction with petition. The owners of property outside
the municipality to be serviced by a proposed water main and/or extension may
petition Council for the construction of the extension. Before the property
owners may be issued a tap-in permit to make or maintain a connection to the
extension of water services to be provided to the property, the property owners
shall pay the extension line charge as set forth in division (d) hereof and the
expansion fee as defined in §
941.02.
   (c)   Procedural defect. If an extension line charge is made under any plan
in this section and the city has been unable to collect the extension line
charge due to defects in procedure or any other reason, no tap-in permit shall
be issued, no connection to the extension made or maintained, nor water service
continue to be provided to the property unless the property owner shall first
pay a sum to the city equal to the amount formerly charged in the form of an
extension line charge. The sum may be paid by installments due in amounts and
at times as if the extension line charge were valid and collectible. The City
Manager shall bill the installment amounts as they fall due and in the event of
nonpayment, utility service shall be discontinued by the City Manager.
   (d)   Extension line charge.
      (1)   Council shall impose extension line charges by ordinance under the
following two-step procedure. The first ordinance shall provide the notice of
intention to proceed with the extension line charge and shall:
         A.   Describe the property upon which extension line charges shall be
imposed;
         B.   Specify the amount of the extension line charge imposed upon each
property described;
         C.   Specify the yearly rate, if any, that interest will accrue on the
extension charge until a tap-in permit is issued; and
         D.   State that the property owner has 14 days from the date of
receipt of the ordinance to file a written objection with the Clerk of Council
requesting a hearing on the extension line charge and that failure to file an
objection within the time shall constitute a waiver of any right to a hearing.
      (2)   A.   After the ordinance giving notice of intention to proceed has
been passed, the Clerk of Council shall send a copy of the ordinance, and a
certified copy of
Chapter 941 and
942, by certified mail with return receipt to the owner of each property listed
in the ordinance at the address appearing on the records of the County Auditor.
The notice shall state that a property owner shall file a written objection
within 14 days of receipt of the notice to preserve the owner’s right to a
hearing on the amount of the extension line charge to be imposed. The hearing
date shall be set no sooner than ten days after the date of filing the
objection. Within 15 days of passing the ordinance giving notice of intention
to proceed, the Clerk of Council shall file with the Auditor of each county in
which any property is to be subject to an extension line charge a copy of the
ordinance.
         B.   At the next Council meeting following the hearing, or at the next
Council meeting following the 14-day notice period if there are no objections
filed by affected property owners, Council shall impose extension line charges
by an ordinance levying the extension line charges which includes the elements
set out in divisions (d)(1)A., B. and C. hereof. If no objections have been
filed within the allotted time frame, the ordinance levying the extension line
charges shall adopt the charges set out in the original ordinance giving notice
of intention to proceed. If objections are filed and following a hearing, the
ordinance levying extension line charges shall establish the charges as Council
determines. Within 20 days of passing the ordinance levying extension line
charges, the Clerk of Council shall file with the Auditor of each county in
which any property is subject to an extension line charge a copy of the
ordinance. The Clerk of Council shall send a copy of the ordinance levying
extension line charges by certified mail with return receipt to the owner of
each property listed in the ordinance at the address appearing on the records
of the County Auditor.
(Ord. 93-80, passed 7-26-1993)
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by Council, the City Manager shall not
issue a tap-in permit or building permit which will allow water service to
property upon which an extension line charge has been imposed until at least
10% of the extension line charge and accrued interest is paid. The remaining
90% shall be paid as provided in division (d)(7) hereof.
      (4)   In the event property is subsequently subdivided, the City Manager,
unless otherwise directed by Council, shall not issue a tap-in permit or
building permit which will allow water service to any subdivided parcel or lot
until at least 10% of the subdivided parcel’s or lot’s proportionate share, as
determined under division (d)(5) hereof, of the total extension line charge and
accrued interest is paid. The remaining 90% shall be paid as provided in
division (d)(7) hereof.
      (5)   The proportionate share shall be the dollar amount of the original
extension line charge per acre multiplied by the subdivided parcel’s or lot’s
acreage. If the subdivided parcel or lot fronts on the road where the extension
line was originally laid, the proportionate share shall also include the dollar
amount of original extension line charge per lineal foot of frontage multiplied
by the subdivided parcel’s or lot’s lineal feet of frontage on the road where
the extension line was originally laid.
      (6)   If a subdivided parcel or lot, adjacent to or abutting any
subdivided parcel or lot against which an extension line charge has become due,
is acquired by the person responsible for payment of the charge, or by any
entity in which the person has a legal or equitable interest, or by a member of
the person’s immediate family, it shall be rebuttably presumed that a single
use will be made of the newly acquired and previously owned property. The
proportionate share as determined under division (d)(5) hereof, for the newly
acquired parcel or lot shall become due and payable as provided in division (d)
(7) hereof whether a new tap-in permit or building permit is requested or not.
      (7)   Excepting the 10% payments required to obtain permits, payments
required under divisions (d)(3), (4) and (6) hereof, shall be made by no more
than 99 monthly installments of equal amounts and one final installment in an
amount not to exceed any one monthly installment. A finance charge on the
unpaid balance shall be added to each installment at the rate of 1% per month
on the outstanding balance after crediting the installment last paid. The City
Manager shall bill the amounts due for interest, installment payments and
finance charge along with the monthly billing for water services. Installment
payments shall be due upon the due date listed on the bill. In the event of
nonpayment of an installment or finance charge when due, the City Manager shall
discontinue water and sewer services to the property and premises served until
the overdue installments and finance charge have been paid.
      (8)   All payments under this division (d) are to be deposited to the
account from which the extension was paid or financed.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990; Ord. 93-80, passed 7-26-1993)
   (e)   Record keeping.
      (1)   The City Manager shall maintain a record of the properties which
have been assigned an extension line charge. These records must identify the
ordinance that establishes these charges and the amount due. The records shall
be suitably indexed as to book, page and parcel number as indicated in the
County Auditor’s records and cross indexed as to streets and parts of streets,
and shall at all times be available for public inspection. As charges are paid
or partially paid, or as new charges are imposed, the necessary notations shall
be made in the record by way of amendment or supplement. The notations by way
of amendment or supplement shall be filed with the appropriate County Auditor
at appropriate intervals, but not less than yearly. The records shall at all
times be accompanied by a statement from the City Manager indicating the date
to which the record has been carried and that an interested party may obtain
upon request a statement of current charges paid or imposed.
      (2)   With the consent of the Warren County Auditor, or any other county
in which the water lines lie, a notation shall be made on the tax records for
the property abutting the water line that the property is subject to an
extension line charge under this section for obtaining or expanding water
services to the property.
      (3)   The City Manager shall request removal of the notations when the
charges have been paid in full.
(Ord. 93-80, passed 7-26-1993)
   (f)   Size of water mains. The size of water mains used in the construction
of extensions, as provided in Plans One through Four inclusive, shall be 12
inches for extensions to service residential developments and 12 inches to
service commercial and industrial developments or the larger size as may be
shown on the City Water Distribution Plan adopted by Council or the latest
revision thereof by the City Engineer. Variations from that latest revision
shall be required if the City Engineer determines that a different size is
required due to circumstances or conditions which have arisen since the date of
the Plan or his or her latest revision or due to unique circumstances of the
development being served. In addition to the variations, smaller mains may be
permitted in:
      (1)   Cul-de-sacs having no more than 40 domestic branches and no longer
than 800 feet;
      (2)   Cul-de-sacs or dead-end mains not more than 1,000 feet in length or
serving not more than 60 multi-family units;
      (3)   Cul-de-sacs serving commercial users where the demand does not
exceed the demand in division (f)(1) hereof;
      (4)   Where the extensions are installed connecting dead-ends or existing
mains of less than 12 inches in size and where a 12-inch main would serve no
useful purpose; or
      (5)   Where Council has determined based on a recommendation by the City
Engineer that due to special circumstances a 12-inch main is not required for a
residential development.
(Ord. 91-22, passed 2-25-1991; Ord. 93-80, passed 7-26-1993)
§ 941.07 RATES FOR WATER SERVICE.
   All funds received are to be deposited in the operating account for the
Water Department.
   (a)   Residential users. 
      (1)   The following rates shall be charged for single- and multi-family
dwellings and trailer parks. The rates are per family units. For single and
multi-family units and trailer parks where more than one family is being
serviced from one water meter, the average water usage per unit is to be
determined by dividing the monthly water usage by the family units being
serviced. Average water usage per unit is to be used in computing the water
charge. The total charge is the charge per unit multiplied by the total number
of units being serviced. No adjustments are to be made for variances.
      (2)   The amount of the rates shall be as set by ordinance from time to
time.
   (b)   Bulk users (commercial, industrial and institutional establishments).
The following rates shall be charged for bulk users (commercial, industrial and
institutional establishments) where there is a single bulk user who owns and/or
operates the establishment. Where a combination of separately owned and/or
operated bulk user establishments are being served by a single meter then the
average water usage is to be charged for each separately owned and/or operated
establishment. The average water usage per establishment is to be determined by
dividing the monthly water usage by the number of establishments and applying
the same rates as stated in division (a) hereof.
   (c)   Water haulers. The rates for water haulers shall be at a rate as
established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the rate shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time.
   (d)   Fire protection services.
      (1)   Each fire protection service serving a private premises shall be
subject to a quarterly charge based on the size of service at the main. The
rates shall be as established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One -
Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the rate shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time.
      (2)   No charge for fire protection service shall be made to educational
or charitable institutions.
      (3)   No charge for water used for fire protection. An additional fee as
established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the rate shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time.
   (e)   Services outside city limits. A 50% surcharge is to be applied to the
above rates on all customers located outside the city limits.
   (f)   Construction water.
      (1)   Upon issuance of a building permit, the building contractor will be
charged a fee as established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One -
Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances for use of construction water. The
amount of the rate shall be as set by ordinance from time to time. Construction
water is to be used for building construction items such as mixing mortar, for
street cleaning purposes and the like. It is not to be used for watering sod,
washing driveways or any cosmetic purposes. These uses should occur only after
the installation of the temporary water meter as set forth in division (f)(2)
hereof.
      (2)   For other temporary usages the city shall supply and install a
temporary meter for a fee as established and set forth in the fee schedule in
Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances for use of construction water. The
amount of the rate shall be as set by ordinance from time to time. The building
contractor is to perform necessary excavation for the installation of the
meter. The water will be billed, at the regular rates outlined in division (b)
hereof, at the end of the construction or after six months, whichever is
shortest.
(Ord. 99-58, passed 4-12-1999)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 941.08 RESERVED
§ 941.09 BILLING FOR WATER SERVICE.
   Bills for water service will be sent to all customers on a monthly basis and
they are payable by the due date listed on the bill. Bills not paid by the due
date will be charged a 10% penalty on the water charges. Customers with
delinquent accounts at the second billing will be notified that unless the
delinquent portion of the bill is paid by the due date, water services will be
discontinued. The 10% penalty is to be applied to the delinquent portion of the
account each and every month the account is delinquent until services are
discontinued.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 941.10 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   (a)   Bills for water service are, unless otherwise requested, mailed to the
premises where services were received. It is the responsibility of the owner or
owners of the premises to pay or arrange for payment of bills. If for example a
renter leaves the city, leaving behind an unpaid water bill, it is the
responsibility of the property owner to pay the bill in its entirety.
   (b)   Should the bill for any service remain unpaid for a period of 30 days,
the Public Utilities Director is authorized to cut off the services. When an
account becomes delinquent and services are discontinued, services shall only
be resumed upon payment of the entire bill and a fee as established and set
forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time. A customer’s record shall show no prior
offenses after 12 consecutive months without incidence of nonpayment shut-offs.
There is no charge for turning the water off.
   (c)   Within 90 days, the Finance Director is authorized and directed to
certify the delinquent bill to the County Auditor for collection as and at the
same time that other taxes and assessments are collected. (Ord. 90-61, passed
5-14-1990)
   (d)   A charge will be added to any bill in case any check is returned from
the bank on which it is drawn as uncollectible for any reason. The charge shall
be as established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the charge shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 99-58, passed 4-12-1999)
   (e)   When the meter reader is unable to get a reading from an inside meter
after three consecutive months, or after an existing remote recorder is
suspected of malfunctioning for three consecutive months, the Public Utilities
Director is authorized to cut off the service provided the owner or owners are
given at least seven calendar days prior written notice by certified mail,
return receipt requested, and, if returned by ordinary mail to the subject
property thereof. Service shall not be resumed until the city has gained access
to the premises and a remote meter with recorder has been installed on the
existing malfunctioning remote recorder corrected.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 941.11 GENERAL RULES; MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Committing nuisance on water works grounds. No person shall throw
objects into or recover objects from any reservoirs, or deposit filth or
trespass, or commit a nuisance of any kind upon grounds set apart for the use
of the city water works.
   (b)   Hunting on water works grounds prohibited. No person shall hunt or
shoot or otherwise kill any bird or animal on any of the grounds or mutilate or
in any other way injure any tree or shrub upon the grounds or upon any property
set apart for the use of the city water works, or in any way injure any
property on the grounds. This shall not apply to extermination of harmful
animals or the removal of trees or shrubs by the city or authorized
contractors.
   (c)   Wasting water. No unauthorized person shall leave open any fire
hydrant or unmetered faucet connected with the city water works so as to allow
water to flow from the same when the water is not being used.
   (d)   Fixed pressure not guaranteed. The Department does not guarantee
consumers full volume, fixed pressure or an effective, continuous supply of
water, the matters being subject to the varying conditions which may affect the
operation and maintenance of the mains, services, pumping stations, reservoirs,
and other parts of the city water works system.
   (e)   Right of entry for inspection. Authorized employees of the Department
shall have the right at any reasonable time to enter the premises for the
purpose of inspecting any water service branch or fire protection service and
any or all piping or equipment connected thereto.
   (f)   Discharge of nonacceptable industrial wastes prohibited. The discharge
of nonacceptable industrial wastes, as hereinafter defined, into the system,
whether directly or indirectly, is hereby prohibited. Where investigation
reveals the presence in the system of nonacceptable industrial wastes emanating
from any lot, land, building or premises, located within or without the
corporate limits of the city, the owner, lessor, renter or occupant of the lot,
land, building or premises, shall be required to treat, neutralize or in other
ways prepare the noxious substance therein, to the satisfaction of Council.
   (g)   Sanitary sewage and industrial wastes defined. For the purposes of
this chapter, the terms SANITARY SEWAGE, ACCEPTABLE INDUSTRIAL WASTES and
NONACCEPTABLE INDUSTRIAL WASTES shall be defined as follows.
      (1)   ACCEPTABLE INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid organic waste materials
not containing toxic or explosive elements or other substances injurious to
sewers or sewage treatment processes, which result from any commercial,
manufacturing or industrial operation or process.
      (2)   NONACCEPTABLE INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes in which are
incorporated minerals, oil, acid, toxic metallic or chemical substances,
resulting from any commercial, manufacturing or industrial operation or
process.
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The waste from water closets, urinals, lavatories,
sinks, bath tubs, showers, household laundries, cellar floor drains, bars, soda
fountains, cuspidors, refrigerator drips and drinking fountains, and other
water-borne waste not constituting an industrial waste.
   (h)   Turn off and turn on charges. There shall be no charge when the city
is requested to turn off the water service at the curb box or removing the
water meter. There shall be no water charge during the period water service is
discontinued. A fee shall be charged when the city is requested to restore
services. The fees shall be as established and set forth in the fee schedule in
Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
   (i)   Water haulers. The city reserves the right to limit or discontinue
sale of water to water haulers when it is determined not to be in the best
interests of the city. The City Manager has the authority to establish
reasonable limitations on the bulk sale of water. The City Manager may grant
authority to water haulers who are delivering water to residents and businesses
within the city while excluding water haulers who are delivering the water to
users outside the city. Council or City Manager approval is required before a
private water tap is provided to a water hauler.
(Ord. 90-130, passed 10-22-1990)
   (j)   Sewer charges may be adjusted. The owner of residential property and
manufacturing, business and commercial establishments, who use large quantities
of water which is not all discharged into the sewer system, may file
application for consideration of adjustment of their sewer billing with the
Public Utilities Director who shall determine a fair and equitable adjustment
of the billing.
   (k)   Maintenance from valve into premises. The portion of a water branch
from the curb valve into the meter, shall be maintained in proper condition by
the owner. Repairs shall be promptly made. Failure to repair a leak or leaks
within reasonable time shall be sufficient cause to justify the Department in
discontinuing the service. When service has been discontinued for failure to
repair leaks, it will not be restored until the Department has been notified
and is satisfied, after inspection that repairs have been properly completed.
   (l)   Water branches not to be laid in sewer trenches. No water service
branch shall at any time be laid in the same trench with a sewer connection. In
extreme cases, shelving will be permitted, in which cases, the shelf shall be
18 inches wide and the water service pipe so staked as to prevent its slipping
into the sewer trench.
   (m)   Inspection of meters.
      (1)   When requested by an owner or his or her agent, the city water
works will remove, test and reinstall a meter. If, upon testing, the meter is
found to be registering more water than actually is passing through it, and the
difference is in excess of the tolerance permitted by the American Water Works
Association Standards, no charge shall be made. Otherwise, the owner or his or
her agent shall pay a service charge as established and set forth in the fee
schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the charge shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time.
      (2)   If the city water works, on its own initiative, removes a meter and
checks it or replaces it with a new meter, there is no charge.
   (n)   Maintenance and repair; shut off or service of fire hydrants.
      (1)   The Public Utilities Director is the person responsible for
maintenance and repairs of fire hydrants and, as such, is the only one with the
authority to shut off and turn on service to any fire hydrant. The only
exception to the authority to turn on and shut off fire hydrants is the
authority of the Fire Chief to authorize turning on or off service or ordering
the Water Department to divert water to more effectively fight a fire.
      (2)   Whenever it becomes necessary to shut off service to any fire
hydrant or whenever service to any fire hydrant is turned back on after having
been shut off, the person ordering the action shall notify the City
Administration and Fire Company as soon as possible, but not later than 12
hours after the act. Failure to report the fact to the persons mentioned within
the 12-hour limit may be considered a neglect of duty on the part of that
person and thereby may subject him or her to disciplinary action, including
dismissal.
      (3)   No person, other than the following shall or by his or her agent or
employees cause to make use of a fire hydrant or shut off or turn on service to
a fire hydrant:
         A.   A city employee within the scope of his or her employment with
the city;
         B.   The Fire Chief or his or her authorized designee in the exercise
of his or her duties for the Fire Company; or
         C.   A licensee during the term and at the location of the hydrant for
which his or her license has been issued.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 941.12 ONLY LICENSED PERSONS TO INSTALL, REPAIR OR CONNECT WATER SERVICE
LINES.
   (a)   No person other than a person holding a current certificate of
competency, issued by the Public Utilities Director as hereinafter provided, or
a person in the employ or working under the supervision of a certified person
shall install, alter, repair or make any connection with any water service
branch or water supply pipe, or operate any curb cock or install any water
meter.
   (b)   Any person desiring a certificate of competency shall apply to the
Public Utilities Director, on a form furnished by the Director, and shall be
examined by the Director, or his or her designated representative, to determine
whether the person is competent to:
      (1)   Install the service branch from the property line to, and
including, the water meter; or
      (2)   Install fire protective systems from the property line to, and
including, all necessary appurtenances.
      (3)   Persons may qualify in either, or both, of these categories.
   (c)   If upon examination, the person is determined to be competent, a
certificate of competency shall, upon furnishing the bond hereinafter required,
be issued in the name of the Public Utilities Director, which certificate shall
be good until revoked or voluntarily surrendered.
   (d)   Before any certificate of competency is issued to any person pursuant
to this section, the person shall furnish to the Public Utilities Director a
bond in the penal sum of $1,000 indemnifying the city for any loss it might
sustain through the fault of the person to be certified or his or her agent or
employee in installing or repairing any water service branch or meter. The bond
shall be in a form prescribed by the Law Director and shall be signed by the
applicant and a corporate surety authorized to do business in the state.
   (e)   A certificate of competency issued to any person pursuant to this
section may be revoked if the person or any of his or her employees or agents
violates any of the provisions of this chapter, any provision of the rules and
regulations of the Public Utilities Director, or fails to repair or restore, or
pay for the repair or restoration of any damage done to or defective work done
on the city water works system by him or her or his or her agents or employees
in the carrying out of any work for which a certificate of competency is
required. Where a certificate of competency has been revoked, a new one shall
not be reissued for 90 days and if the cause for revocation included the
failure of the certified person to correct or repair any damages to or
defective work on the system, a new certificate shall not be issued until the
damages or defective work is repaired.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 941.13 RIGHT TO INCREASE MINIMUM CHARGES.
   The charges defined in this chapter are minimum charges and the city
reserves the right and is obligated to increase them at any time should the
revenues of the sanitary sewer and water system prove insufficient to pay the
operating and maintenance expenses and the debt service charges of the revenue
bonds issued against the system.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 941.14 SALE COPIES.
   Copies of this chapter (Ordinance 90-61, as amended) shall be made available
for sale to the public at a fee as established and set forth in the fee
schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 941.15 WATER SUPPLY BACKFLOW PREVENTION AND CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL.
   (a)   The City Water Works Operating Code as provided by this chapter shall
be amended by adding thereto the rules of the State Environmental Protection
Agency which are filed and known as O.A.C. Chapter 3745-5, and which shall be a
part of this chapter, and which state rules are attached hereto and
incorporated herein by reference.
   (b)   A backflow prevention device shall be installed on all water services
prior to any point of connection or usage.
   (c)   For all residential units (three-family or less), a double check valve
backflow prevention device, American Society of Sanitary Engineering (ASSE) No.
1024, shall be provided immediately following the meter setting. A Watts
Regulator Company Model No. 7 or equal, as approved by the Warren County Health
District, shall be permitted.
   (d)   For all other users, a reduced pressure principle pressure reducing
valve (triple check valve), ASSE No. 1013, shall be provided immediately
following the meter setting when the meter is inside the building, or
immediately inside the building when the meter is outside the building in a
meter pit. A Watts Regulator Company Model No. 909 or equal, as approved by the
Warren County Health District, shall be permitted.
   (e)   Backflow prevention devices meeting ASSE Standard 1013, shall be
tested at time of installation and at least once every 12 months thereafter by
a person certified by the Ohio Department of Health or other agency recognized
by the city in the use of appropriate testing equipment. ASSE Standard 1013
backflow prevention devices must be completely rebuilt at least once every five
years thereafter, in accordance with accepted engineering practices.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 941.16 FLUORIDATION OF WATER SUPPLY.
   The City Manager is hereby directed to fluoridate the water supply in
compliance with state law at the earliest practicable date.
(Ord. 90-130, passed 10-22-1990)
§ 941.17 CITY MANAGER AUTHORITY TO LIMIT USE.
   (a)   Authority of City Manager. The City Manager is hereby empowered to
enforce the following rules, regulations and criteria to limit water usage at
any time should the supply be inadequate to meet the demand, due to low
pressure, water main breaks or emergency situations.
   (b)   Criteria.
      (1)   A voluntary curtailment shall be declared if demand is such that
recovery of the water system to average capacity is not probable within the
next 24 hours, as determined by the City Manager.
      (2)   A mandatory ban shall be declared if the City Manager or his or her
designate determines that anticipated demand or actual demand exceeds the
production capacity of any portion of the water treatment or distribution
system so that depletion of supplies could endanger the peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the city.
   (c)   Rules and regulations.
      (1)   Voluntary curtailment and mandatory bans shall be declared by the
City Manager or a designate and that declaration shall identify usages that are
being controlled or precluded, as part of the ban or curtailment, according to
the following priority schedule. The schedule identifies the order of ban or
curtailment with the lowest priority listed first and highest priority listed
last:
         A.   Bulk water;
         B.   Swimming pools or any similar use;
         C.   Lawns and flower gardens or any similar use;
         D.   Public recreational facilities and privately owned shrubs, trees
and vegetable or fruit gardens or any similar use;
         E.   Light and heavy industrial use and commercial business - retail
or any similar use;
         F.   Residential usage, e.g. laundry, baths, drinking and cooking
water or any similar use;
         G.   Hospital, nursing home, critical care units, schools and licensed
day-care or any similar use; and
         H.   Fire Department and emergency services or any similar use.
      (2)   At the discretion of the City Manager or designate, a mandatory ban
or curtailment may be declared according to the criteria set forth in division
(b) hereof.
      (3)   Upon declaration of a mandatory ban or curtailment, the City
Manager shall notify the Mayor, City Council and the news media, and post a
notice of the ban or curtailment in a public place.
      (4)   The Chief of Police shall be directed by the City Manager to issue
warning citations to first offenders, and cite any additional violations, of
any declared mandatory ban on water usage. Upon declaration that a mandatory
ban or curtailment be made at a level under division (c)(1) hereof, the City
Manager is hereby directed to notify all higher priority users of a voluntary
curtailment.
      (5)   Penalties for violations of the ban will be added to the violator’s
monthly water bill.
      (6)   The City Manager shall report to Council on the condition of the
city’s water system at the next City Council meeting following the declaration
of a mandatory ban or voluntary curtailment.
      (7)   Any clarification or determination of similar use under the
priority schedule shall be made by the City Manager.
      (8)   A voluntary curtailment may be lifted at the discretion of the City
Manager or designate upon the determination of the City Manager or designate
that recovery of the water system to normal capacity is probable within the
next 24 hours. A mandatory ban may be lifted at the discretion of the City
Manager or designate upon the determination by the City Manager or designate
that anticipated demand or actual demand does not exceed the production
capacity of any portion of the water treatment or distribution system so that
the depletion of supplies could endanger the peace, health, safety and general
welfare of the city. Those parties previously notified of the imposition of the
ban or curtailment shall be notified of the lifting of the ban or curtailment.
      (9)   Upon declaration of a mandatory ban or curtailment, City Council
shall have the authority to impose a moratorium on all new water expansions
until the mandatory ban or curtailment is lifted.
      (10)   Upon declaration of a mandatory ban or curtailment, City Council
shall appoint a review board, consisting of three residents, who shall hear
requests from water users to vary the rules and regulations for individual
circumstances.
   (d)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates a mandatory ban shall receive a warning upon the
first occurrence. OCCURRENCE means a violation, along with subsequent actual
notice of the violation. Accordingly, once actual notice of a violation is
received, the party is subject to an additional charge for another violation,
even if it is an uninterrupted improper use of water.
      (2)   Whoever violates a mandatory ban on second and subsequent
occurrences shall be assessed on their water bill an additional charge for
improper water use in the sum of $150 for each occurrence.
      (3)   The above does not preclude the right of the city at any time to
pursue injunctive relief to seek strict adherence to the criteria, rules and
regulations set forth in divisions (b) and (c) hereof.
(Ord. 90-130, passed 10-22-1990)
§ 941.18 AFTER-HOURS CALL-OUT CHARGES.
   There shall be a charge for after-hours call-out services rendered at any
time other than the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. The
after hours call-out charge for any and all water services shall be as
established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the charge shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time. The after hours call-out charge for any and
all sewer services shall be as established and set forth in the fee schedule in
Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the charge shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time. No charge shall be made if the call-out is
due to the fault of the city.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 941.20 SYSTEM FEE FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (a)   Purpose. In order to be assured that the cost of construction of the
city’s water services is borne equitably by all users of the services, the city
hereby establishes system fees to be imposed on all property owners who receive
the benefits of the services, but who have not been, or whose predecessor(s) in
interest were not, assessed or charged an extension line charge or otherwise
have not paid for the cost of construction for the services in proportion to
the benefits received. As used in this section OWNER includes the owner’s agent
or representative who has control of access to the property.
(Ord. 91-50, passed 5-13-1991)
   (b)   System fee. Any applicant for a tap-in permit for water service, who
has not been, or whose predecessor(s) in interest were not, assessed, charged
an extension line charge, or has not otherwise paid for water service
construction, shall pay a system fee prior to a tap-in permit being issued as
follows.
      (1)   Water service system fee.
         A.   The system fee for water service shall be computed at a rate as
established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the rate shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time.
         B.   All funds collected pursuant to the provisions of this division
shall be deposited in the Water Line Charge Fund.
      (2)   Fees are separate. The water system fees are separate and in
addition to the tap-in fee and expansion fee.
(Ord. 96-91, passed 6-24-1996)
   (c)   Time of payment.
      (1)   The water system fees shall be paid at the time of an application
for a water tap-in permit. At the discretion of Council, the system fee(s) may
be paid on an installment basis in monthly payments not to exceed 12 months.
      (2)   Fees are separate. In addition, a finance charge of 1% per month
shall be imposed on any outstanding balance.
   (d)   Failure to pay system fee. Failure to pay the system fee(s) required
by this section shall result in the denial of a tap-in permit for an applicant
or the discontinuance of water service, to the property or premises served
until payment is made or until installments are made current. In lieu of
discontinuing service, Council shall have the discretion to certify any unpaid
amount to the County Auditor to be placed on the tax duplicate and collected as
other taxes on the property.
(Ord. 91-50, passed 5-13-1991)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 941.21 WATER LINE AND CONNECTION ASSESSMENTS.
   (a)   The City of Mason, or its duly authorized agent, may require the
installation of water lines or connections and assess the cost thereof as
provided in this section.
   (b)   Whenever the City Manager deems it necessary that water lines or
connections be installed, the City Manager or his designee shall cause written
notice thereof to be given to the owner of each lot or parcel of land to which
such lines or connections are to be made, which notice shall state the number
and the character of connections required.
   (c)   The notice under this section shall be served by the clerk of the
legislative authority, or a person designated by such clerk, upon the owners of
the lots or parcels of land to which such connections are to be made in the
same manner as service of summons in civil cases, or by certified mail
addressed to such owner at his last known address or to the address to which
tax bills are sent, or by a combination of the foregoing methods. If it appears
by the return of service or the return of the certified mail notice that one or
more of such owners cannot be found, such owners shall be served by publication
of the notice once in a newspaper of general circulation within the municipal
corporation. The return of the person serving the notice or a certified copy
thereof or a returned receipt for notice forwarded by certified mail accepted
by the addressee or anyone purporting to act for him shall be prima- facie
evidence of the service of notice under this section.
   (d)   If said lines or connections are not installed within the time period
indicated by such notice, the work may be done by the municipal corporation or
any duly authorized agent or contractor and the cost thereof together with a
forfeiture of 5%, assessed against the lots and lands for which such
connections are made.
   (e)   The Clerk shall make a written return to the County Auditor of the
action taken under this section, with a statement of the charges for its
services, the amount paid for the performing of the labor, the fees of the
officers who made the service of the notice and return, and a proper
description of the premises. The amounts, when allowed, shall be entered upon
the tax duplicate, shall be a lien upon the lands from the date of the entry,
and shall be collected as other taxes and returned to the city with the General
Fund.
(Ord. 2018-109, passed 9-10-2018)
§ 941.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates §
941.11(a), (b) or (c) shall be fined not more than $150 for each offense.
   (b)   Whoever violates §
941.11(n)(3) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined
not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
   (c)   Whoever violates any other provision of this chapter shall be subject
to the penalties set forth in §
943.99(a) and (b).
   (d)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned. The imposition
of penalties under divisions (a) through (c) hereof for violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall not relieve an offender of civil liability for
any damage caused by his or her unlawful act or acts.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
CHAPTER 942: SANITARY SEWER SYSTEMS
Section
942.01   Purpose
942.015   Tap-in permits
942.016   Unauthorized tap-ins prohibited
942.02   Reserved
942.03   Sewer system expansion fees
942.04   Installation charges for sewer
942.045   Hardship
942.05   Expansion account
942.06   Extension of sewer service
942.07   Reserved
942.08   Rates for sewer service
942.09   Billing for sewer service
942.10   Responsibility for payment of bills
942.11   General rules; miscellaneous regulations
942.12   Reserved
942.13   Right to increase minimum charges
942.14   Sale copies
942.15   Reserved
942.16   Reserved
942.17   City Manager authority to limit use
942.18   After-hours call-out charges
942.20   System fee for sewer service
942.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Destruction of trees, shrubs, see §
541.06
   Industrial pretreatment, see
Ch. 949
   Public and private sewer connections required, see §
943.03
   Water bill to contain waste collection charges, see §
961.02(b)
Statutory reference:
   Compulsory water connections, see R.C. §§ 729.06, 743.23
   Management and control of sewerage system, see R.C. §§ 729.50
   Management and control of water works, see R.C. § 743.02 et seq.
   Sewerage rates, see R.C. §§ 729.49, 729.52
§ 942.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter establishes charges and fees for the city sanitary sewer
systems. Charges for special and unusual circumstances not defined in
Chapter 943, this chapter or subsequent amendments are to be determined by the
City Manager. In no event shall a tap-in permit be issued by the City Manager,
to authorize a connection which will serve property with sewer service until
the charges imposed upon the property under this chapter and which are payable
at the time of the application for the tap-in permit have been paid. No tap-in
permit shall be issued, nor any connection made or maintained which will allow
water or sewer service to be provided to areas outside the territorial limits
of the city unless the application is approved by Council.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 942.015 TAP-IN PERMITS.
   (a)   All applications for a tap-in permit shall be made by the owner or
owners of the property to be served. Each application shall state:
      (1)   The address of the owner or owners of the property to be served by
the proposed connection;
      (2)   A description of the property as shown on the County Auditor’s map,
including book, page and parcel number;
      (3)   The total number and types of buildings to be served by the permit
and the number and types of buildings, if any, constructed or to be constructed
outside the territorial limits of the city;
      (4)   The type of service for which the application is being submitted;
and
      (5)   Any other necessary information requested by the City Manager.
   (b)   Upon application for a tap-in permit, the City Manager shall notify
the owner of the property to be served of the charges to be paid under this
chapter before a tap-in permit will be issued.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 942.016 UNAUTHORIZED TAP-INS PROHIBITED.
   No connection to a sewer line shall be made or maintained which provides
sewer services to property or premises other than those properties or premises
for which a tap-in permit has been issued.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 942.02 RESERVED.
§ 942.03 SEWER SYSTEM EXPANSION FEES.
   (a)   Residential. The expansion charge for a single-family residence for a
six-inch sewer tap shall be as established and set forth in the fee schedule in
Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. For multi-family apartment complexes
for each family unit, the expansion fee shall be as established and set forth
in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The charge for a single-family
residence and each family unit of a multi-family apartment complex shall be as
established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fees shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 99-58, passed 4-12-1999; Ord. 2001-92, passed 5-14-2001; Ord. 2004-39,
passed 3-22-2004)
   (b)   Business and industrial.
      (1)   The sewer expansion charge for business and industrial shall be
based upon the size of the water meter and shall be as set forth in the fee
schedule in Part One, Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances.
      (2)   The tap size shall be consistent with good design practice.
   (c)   Special circumstances. At the discretion of the majority of Council,
the expansion charge may be modified in exchange for other considerations such
as pipe extensions, pump stations and the like
   (d)   Expansion of present services. The charge shall be determined from the
difference in meter size according to rates defined in divisions (a) and (b)
hereof.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 942.04 INSTALLATION CHARGES FOR SEWER.
   (a)   Basis of charge. The tap-in charge is based upon the cost of all
material and labor required to make the installation from the service line to
the proper line. This charge is to be paid at the time the sewer service is
applied for based on the City Manager’s estimate of cost. Each building and
each dwelling unit is to be serviced by a separate water meter and have a
separate and independent connection to the public line. However, apartment
complexes, industrial plants and commercial establishments that cannot be
divided for sale may be serviced by fewer meters than the number of buildings
and number of dwelling units.
(Ord. 90-85, passed 8-13-1990)
   (b)   Tap-in methods. The tap-in may be made in any one of the following two
methods at the discretion of the property owner:
      (1)   Installation by property owner. The property owner may, after
obtaining a tap-in permit, employ a bonded contractor to perform the
installation. The water meter will be furnished by Greater Cincinnati Water
Works (GCWW) at list price, and an inspection fee as established and set forth
in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances will be charged by the city. The
amount of the fee shall be as set by ordinance from time to time. No backfill
shall be made until the work has been inspected by the Public Utilities
Director or his or her representative. If backfill has been performed before
inspection, the line is to be uncovered at the property owner’s expense.
      (2)   Installation by city. The City Manager will employ a qualified
contractor, not necessarily bonded, to perform the installation. The
installation charge will be based upon the actual installation cost, including
material, labor and equipment plus 5% to compensate the city for overhead costs
plus an inspection fee as established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part
One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time. The meter will be furnished by the GCWW at list
price.
(Ord. 99-58, passed 4-12-1999)
   (c)   Installation account.
      (1)   Funds received for installation of sewer taps are to be paid into a
Sewer Tap Escrow Account. If the actual cost is less than the estimated cost, a
refund will be made by the city to the affected party. If the cost is higher
than estimated, the property owner will be notified of the additional amount to
be paid. If this is not paid within two weeks, water service will be
discontinued.
      (2)   Remaining funds in the escrow accounts will, at periodic intervals,
be transferred by the Finance Director into their respective operating funds.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 942.045 HARDSHIP.
   (a)   Sewer tap-in charges are to be paid pursuant to §
942.04(a). However, Council may grant an extension of time for payment in the
following cases upon application by the property owner or agent thereof:
      (1)   Unemployment;
      (2)   Catastrophic accident;
      (3)   Poverty and near poverty level income; and/or
      (4)   Any similar circumstance that in the judgment of Council
constitutes a hardship warranting an extension of time for payment.
   (b)   Prior to consideration of the grant of any extension of time, the
property owner or agent thereof, shall file an application to Council on a form
provided for that purpose, which application shall be accompanied by the
following:
      (1)   A detailed statement of current conditions explaining the need for
an extension of time. The statement shall include a description of the
circumstances creating the need; and
      (2)   Verification of the owner’s income in one of the following forms:
         A.   If the owner receives Social Security Income, a Social Security
report showing the amount received in the last 12 months;
         B.   If the owner receives welfare, a welfare report showing the
amount received in the last twelve months; or
         C.   If the owner is otherwise employed, an accurate statement of the
owner’s income of the last 12 months, signed by the owner and a copy of the
last federal tax return filed by the owner.
   (c)   Council may, in its sole discretion, consider all of the circumstances
surrounding the application and reasons therefor and determine a time frame for
payment.
   (d)   If an extension is granted and the person receiving the extension
subsequently defaults on an extended payment plan, the owner’s account will be
subject to disconnection procedures as provided in §
942.10.
(Ord. 90-130, passed 10-22-1990)
§ 942.05 EXPANSION ACCOUNT.
   All sums collected as sewer system expansion fees established in §
942.03 shall be deposited to the credit of a Sewer Expansion Fund, as the case
may be, which funds are hereby established and all sums credited to the funds
may be used only for the purpose of sewer system expansion.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 942.06 EXTENSION OF SEWER SERVICE.
   (a)   Extension restrictions.
      (1)   The provisions of this section, unless specifically indicated
otherwise herein, apply to the extension of sewer services both inside and
outside the city. No extension of sewer services outside the city limits can be
made without the approval of Council by ordinance.
      (2)   All lines constructed for the extension of sewer service shall be
extended the entire distance across the property to be served.
   (b)   Plans. After receiving the required approval of Council, extension to
the sewer system shall be in accordance with one of the following plans:
      (1)   Plan 1. Payment of entire cost in advance. Any one or more property
owners may request the City Manager to determine the feasibility and the
estimated cost of the construction of a sewer line extension to serve their
premises. If Council approves the proposed extension and the City Manager’s
estimated construction cost, the property owners may deposit with the city a
sum equal to the estimated cost plus expansion charges defined in §
942.03. The City Manager shall thereupon proceed with the construction. Any
surplus in the deposit amount over and above the actual construction cost shall
be refunded to the owner or owners or their agent. Should the actual
construction cost exceed the deposit amount, the owner or owners shall pay this
excess amount and no tap-in permit shall be issued, no connection made or
maintained to the extension, nor any sewer service provided until the cost is
paid in full. No extension of service will be approved for less than the entire
frontage of the property of the applicant and the necessary length from an
existing sewer line to that frontage. If in any case, by reason of inadvertence
or oversight, construction shall have been made without compliance with advance
payment requirements, the inadvertence or oversight shall not relieve the
benefitted property owner from the obligation to pay the amount due. In those
cases, no water connection shall be made or sewer service provided unless and
until the required payments or deposits are made.
      (2)   Plan 2. Construction by owners. Council may permit the owner or
owners of property to be served to arrange for the laying of sewer line
extension by private contract. Before the permit can be granted, the plans for
the extension must be approved by Council. Prior to starting a project, the
contractor shall furnish a bond as guarantee for each project or section
thereof. The entire sewer lines are to be deeded to the city. Before the
properties to be serviced can tap into the extension, they must secure a tap-in
permit, pay expansion charges as specified in §
942.03, and any installation charges specified in §
942.04.
      (3)   Plan 3. Construction without petition. Whenever Council shall
determine that it is in the best interests of the city to extend the sewer
lines, Council, by ordinance passed with a three-quarter affirmative vote, may
assess upon abutting, adjacent and contiguous, or other benefitted properties
within the municipality, and an extension line charge shall be imposed in
accordance with division (d) hereof upon properties outside the municipality
which are abutting, adjacent and contiguous or other property to be benefitted
by the extension. The sum due in the form of assessments or extension line
charges are in addition to all other charges imposed by this chapter.
      (4)   Plan 4. Construction with petition. The owners of property outside
the municipality to be serviced by a proposed sewer extension may petition
Council for the construction of the extension. Before the property owners may
be issued a tap-in permit to make or maintain a connection to the extension of
sewer services to be provided to the property, the property owners shall pay
the extension line charge as set forth in division (d) hereof and the expansion
fee as defined in §
942.03.
   (c)   Procedural defect. If an extension line charge is made under any plan
in this section and the city has been unable to collect the extension line
charge due to defects in procedure or any other reason, no tap-in permit shall
be issued, no connection to the extension made or maintained, or sewer service
continue to be provided to the property unless the property owner shall first
pay a sum to the city equal to the amount formerly charged in the form of an
extension line charge. The sum may be paid by installments due in amounts and
at times as if the extension line charge were valid and collectible. The City
Manager shall bill the installment amounts as they fall due and in the event of
nonpayment, utility service shall be discontinued by the City Manager.
   (d)   Extension line charge.
      (1)   Council shall impose extension line charges by ordinance under the
following two-step procedure. The first ordinance shall provide the notice of
intention to proceed with the extension line charge and shall:
         A.   Describe the property upon which extension line charges shall be
imposed;
         B.   Specify the amount of the extension line charge imposed upon each
property described;
         C.   Specify the yearly rate, if any, that interest will accrue on the
extension charge until a tap-in permit is issued; and
         D.   State that the property owner has 14 days from the date of
receipt of the ordinance to file a written objection with the Clerk of Council
requesting a hearing on the extension line charge and that failure to file an
objection within the time shall constitute a waiver of any right to a hearing.
      (2)   A.   After the ordinance giving notice of intention to proceed has
been passed, the Clerk of Council shall send a copy of the ordinance, and a
certified copy of Chapters 941 and 942, by certified mail with return receipt
to the owner of each property listed in the ordinance at the address appearing
on the records of the County Auditor. The notice shall state that a property
owner shall file a written objection within 14 days of receipt of the notice to
preserve the owner’s right to a hearing on the amount of the extension line
charge to be imposed. The hearing date shall be set no sooner than ten days
after the date of filing the objection. Within 15 days of passing the ordinance
giving notice of intention to proceed, the Clerk of Council shall file with the
Auditor of each county in which any property is to be subject to an extension
line charge a copy of the ordinance.
         B.   At the next Council meeting following the hearing, or at the next
Council meeting following the 14-day notice period if there are no objections
filed by affected property owners, Council shall impose extension line charges
by an ordinance levying the extension line charges which includes the elements
set out in divisions (d)(1)A., B. and C. hereof. If no objections have been
filed within the allotted time frame, the ordinance levying the extension line
charges shall adopt the charges set out in the original ordinance giving notice
of intention to proceed. If objections are filed and following a hearing, the
ordinance levying extension line charges shall establish the charges as Council
determines. Within 20 days of passing the ordinance levying extension line
charges, the Clerk of Council shall file with the Auditor of each county in
which any property is subject to an extension line charge a copy of the
ordinance. The Clerk of Council shall send a copy of the ordinance levying
extension line charges by certified mail with return receipt to the owner of
each property listed in the ordinance at the address appearing on the records
of the County Auditor.
(Ord. 93-80, passed 7-26-1993)
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by Council, the City Manager shall not
issue a tap-in permit or building permit which will allow sewer service to
property upon which an extension line charge has been imposed until at least
10% of the extension line charge and accrued interest is paid. The remaining
90% shall be paid as provided in division (d)(7) hereof.
      (4)   In the event property is subsequently subdivided, the City Manager,
unless otherwise directed by Council, shall not issue a tap-in permit or
building permit which will allow sewer service to any subdivided parcel or lot
until at least 10% of the subdivided parcel’s or lot’s proportionate share, as
determined under division (d)(5) hereof, of the total extension line charge and
accrued interest is paid. The remaining 90% shall be paid as provided in
division (d)(7) hereof.
      (5)   The proportionate share shall be the dollar amount of the original
extension line charge per acre multiplied by the subdivided parcel’s or lot’s
acreage. If the subdivided parcel or lot fronts on the road where the extension
line was originally laid, the proportionate share shall also include the dollar
amount of original extension line charge per lineal foot of frontage multiplied
by the subdivided parcel’s or lot’s lineal feet of frontage on the road where
the extension line was originally laid.
      (6)   If a subdivided parcel or lot, adjacent to or abutting any
subdivided parcel or lot against which an extension line charge has become due,
is acquired by the person responsible for payment of the charge, or by any
entity in which the person has a legal or equitable interest, or by a member of
the person’s immediate family, it shall be rebuttably presumed that a single
use will be made of the newly acquired and previously owned property. The
proportionate share as determined under division (d)(5) hereof, for the newly
acquired parcel or lot shall become due and payable as provided in division (d)
(7) hereof whether a new tap-in permit or building permit is requested or not.
      (7)   Excepting the 10% payments required to obtain permits, payments
required under divisions (d)(3), (4) and (6) hereof, shall be made by no more
than 99 monthly installments of equal amounts and one final installment in an
amount not to exceed any one monthly installment. A finance charge on the
unpaid balance shall be added to each installment at the rate of 1% per month
on the outstanding balance after crediting the installment last paid. The City
Manager shall bill the amounts due for interest, installment payments and
finance charge along with the monthly billing for sewer and/or water services.
Installment payments shall be due upon the due date listed on the bill. In the
event of nonpayment of an installment or finance charge when due, the City
Manager shall discontinue water and sewer services to the property and premises
served until the overdue installments and finance charge have been paid.
      (8)   All payments under this division (d) are to be deposited to the
account from which the extension was paid or financed.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990; Ord. 93-80, passed 7-26-1993)
   (e)   Record keeping.
      (1)   The City Manager shall maintain a record of the properties which
have been assigned an extension line charge. These records must identify the
ordinance that establishes these charges and the amount due. The records shall
be suitably indexed as to book, page and parcel number as indicated in the
County Auditor’s records and cross indexed as to streets and parts of streets,
and shall at all times be available for public inspection. As charges are paid
or partially paid, or as new charges are imposed, the necessary notations shall
be made in the record by way of amendment or supplement. The notations by way
of amendment or supplement shall be filed with the appropriate County Auditor
at appropriate intervals, but not less than yearly. The records shall at all
times be accompanied by a statement from the City Manager indicating the date
to which the record has been carried and that an interested party may obtain
upon request a statement of current charges paid or imposed.
      (2)   With the consent of the Warren County Auditor, or any other county
in which the sewer lines lie, a notation shall be made on the tax records for
the property abutting the sewer line that the property is subject to an
extension line charge under this section for obtaining or expanding sewer
services to the property.
      (3)   The City Manager shall request removal of the notations when the
charges have been paid in full.
(Ord. 93-80, passed 7-26-1993)
   (f)   Size of water mains. The size of water mains used in the construction
of extensions, as provided in Plans One through Four inclusive, shall be 12
inches for extensions to service residential developments and 12 inches to
service commercial and industrial developments or the larger size as may be
shown on the City Water Distribution Plan adopted by Council or the latest
revision thereof by the City Engineer. Variations from that latest revision
shall be required if the City Engineer determines that a different size is
required due to circumstances or conditions which have arisen since the date of
the Plan or his or her latest revision or due to unique circumstances of the
development being served. In addition to the variations, smaller mains may be
permitted in:
      (1)   Cul-de-sacs having no more than 40 domestic branches and no longer
than 800 feet;
      (2)   Cul-de-sacs or dead-end mains not more than 1,000 feet in length or
serving not more than 60 multi-family units;
      (3)   Cul-de-sacs serving commercial users where the demand does not
exceed the demand in division (f)(1) hereof;
      (4)   Where the extensions are installed connecting dead-ends or existing
mains of less than 12 inches in size and where a 12-inch main would serve no
useful purpose; or
      (5)   Where Council has determined based on a recommendation by the City
Engineer that due to special circumstances a 12-inch main is not required for a
residential development.
(Ord. 91-22, passed 2-25-1991; Ord. 93-80, passed 7-26-1993)
§ 942.07 RESERVED.
§ 942.08 RATES FOR SEWER SERVICE.
   All funds received are to be deposited to the operating account for the
Sewer Department.
   (a)   (1)   Residential users. Rates shall be charged for single- and two-
family dwellings or the annual Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA) as approved by
Council, whichever is greater. For 2024 and later, rates will be effective on
January 1 of each year and increase at the rate approved by Council for the
annual COLA. The rates are based upon water used and are per family unit as
defined in §
941.07(a). For dwellings without water meters, the charge for sewer service
will be based on 5.348 hundred cubic feet (ccf) per month. The rates shall be
as established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the rates shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time.
      (2)   April through October sewer usage credit for single and two-family
dwellings for vegetation watering.
         A.   Definitions. The following terms are defined as follows for use
in this section.
      BASE CALCULATION. The base calculation is the average monthly usage of
water service, in ccf, at that dwelling during the months of November (billed
in December) through March (billed in April) immediately preceding the “usage
credit month.” For those residents for whom there is less than three months
history of water service at that dwelling unit during the months of November
through March immediately preceding the “usage credit month,” the “base
calculation” shall be 12.04 ccf.
      USAGE CREDIT MONTH. The usage credit month is each month of usage from
April (billed in May) through October (billed in November), inclusive,
beginning in April, 2007.
         B.   Credits. Single- and two-family dwellings using sewer service in
the city shall be entitled to a credit toward that sewer service used during
each usage credit month as follows:
            1.   If a dwelling’s water usage during a usage credit month
exceeds that dwelling’s base calculation, the credit to the bill for that
month’s sewer services shall be the amount equal to the charges for sewer
service on that additional water usage; or
            2.   If a dwelling’s water usage during a usage credit month does
not exceed that dwelling’s base calculation, there shall be no credit to the
bill for that month’s sewer services.
   (b)   Sewer service rates for commercial, industrial and institutional
establishments and multi-family dwellings and trailer parks.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purposes of this §
942.08, a MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING is a residential building which is divided into
three or more family units.
      (2)   Rates. The rates shall be charged for commercial, industrial and
institutional establishments and multi-family dwellings and trailer parks or
the annual Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA) as approved by Council, whichever
is greater. For 2024 and later, rates will be effective on January 1 of each
year and increase at the rate approved by Council for the annual COLA. The
rates are as established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title
Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the rates shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time.
      (3)   Rates. The rates are based upon water usage and are for a per
establishment basis as calculated in §
941.07(b).
(Ord. 99-58, passed 4-12-1999; Ord. 2001-92, passed 5-14-2001; Ord. 2003-48,
passed 4-28-2003; Ord 2004-39, passed 3-22-2004; Ord. 2005-13, passed 2-14-
2005; Ord. 2006-108, passed 9-25-2006; Ord. 2022-111, passed 11-14- 2022)
   (c)   Services outside city limits. A 50% surcharge is to be applied to
above rates for all customers located outside the city limits.
   (d)   Normal concentration of wastes.
      (1)   Charges for sewage treatment pursuant to division (a) hereof shall
apply to wastes not exceeding normal concentration as follows:
         A.   BOD: 200 milligrams per liter;
         B.   Suspended solids: 200 milligrams per liter; and
         C.   Ammonia: 20 milligrams per liter.
      (2)   Applicable concentrations shall be based upon average
concentrations, weighted in proportion to volume of flow, determined during
each billing period by the most practicable method possible. Should the average
concentration of any constituent exceed the normal concentration provided in
this division, a surcharge for each constituent so exceeded shall apply for the
applicable billing period, in accordance with the provisions of division (g)
hereof.
   (e)   Pollutants in excess of normal concentrations.
      (1)   Sewage containing pollutants in excess of normal concentrations as
defined in this division (e) hereof shall be:
         A.   Subject to prohibition of discharge to the sewage treatment
works;
         B.   Subject to pretreatment prior to discharge to the sewage
treatment works to comply with concentrations or amounts of pollutants
established by the City and subject to payment of a surcharge pursuant to
division (g) hereof; or
         C.   Permitted to be discharged to the sewage treatment works without
pretreatment, subject to payment of a surcharge pursuant to division (g)
hereof.
      (2)   The city shall determine which of the three alternatives shall
apply, based upon the volume and concentration of pollutants of the sewage
involved.
   (f)   Extra strength surcharges. In addition to the base user charges
applicable pursuant to divisions (a) and (b) hereof, users discharging
pollutants to the sewage treatment works of the city, whose average
concentration as defined in division (e) hereof in one or more classifications
exceeds in any month that concentration as normal in division (e) hereof in the
corresponding classification, shall be subject to surcharges calculated as
follows:
      (1)   Surcharges for each billing period during a calendar year shall be
based upon the following values for that calendar year:
         A.   Estimated total operation, maintenance and replacement expenses
attributed to the water reclamation plant (C);
         B.   Estimated total pounds of BOD received at the plant (B);
         C.   Estimated total pounds of suspended solids received at the plant
(S); and
         D.   Estimated total pounds of ammonia received at the plant (NH).
      (2)   Surcharge on user charges per pound of BOD in excess of normal
equals:
 
C x 0.42
B
      (3)   Surcharge on user charges per pound of suspended solids in excess
of normal equals:
 
C x 0.24
S
      (4)   Surcharge on user charges per pound of ammonia in excess of normal
equals:
 
C x 0.05
NH
      (5)   Pounds of BOD per billing period subject to surcharge equals:
(Average concentrations of BOD, calculated pursuant to division (e) hereof, in
milligrams per liter minus 200 milligrams per liter) times volume of sewage
discharged from the user to the sewage treatment works billing period, in
million gallons, times 8.34. If the average concentration of BOD is 200
milligrams per liter, or less, no surcharge for BOD shall apply;
      (6)   Pounds of suspended solids per billing period subject to surcharge
equals: (Average concentration of suspended solids, calculated pursuant to
division (e) hereof, in milligrams per liter minus
200 milligrams per liter) times volume of sewage discharged from the user to
the sewage treatment works per billing period, in million gallons times 8.34.
If the average concentration of suspended solids is 200 milligrams per liter,
or less, no surcharge for suspended solids shall apply;
      (7)   Pounds of ammonia per billing period subject to surcharge equals:
(Average concentration of ammonia, calculated pursuant to division (e) hereof
in milligrams per liter minus 20 milligrams per liter) times volume of sewage
discharged from the user to the sewage treatment works per billing period, in
million gallons times 8.34. If the average concentration of ammonia is 20
milligrams per liter, or less, no surcharge for ammonia shall apply;
      (8)   Surcharge on user charges equal [pounds of BOD calculated pursuant
to division (f)(5) hereof] times [surcharge per pound calculated pursuant to
division (f)(2) hereof]; plus [pounds of suspended solids calculated pursuant
to division (f)(6) hereof]; times [surcharge per pound calculated pursuant to
division (f)(3) hereof]; plus [pounds of ammonia calculated pursuant to
division (f)(7) hereof]; times [surcharge per pound calculated pursuant to
division (f)(4) hereof].
      (9)   Formulas as contained in divisions (f)(2), (f)(3) and (f)(4) hereof
shall be subject to adjustment as necessary based upon a biennial audit of
sewer revenue fund expenses. Examples for calculating the rate based on
formulas set forth herein are attached as Appendix A to this section.
      (10)   Surcharges may also be established for pollutants other than those
provided for in this division which are permitted to be discharged to the
sewage treatment works by the city, after pretreatment or without pretreatment.
Surcharges levied pursuant to this section shall be billed pursuant to §
942.09. The surcharge rates shall be as pursuant to division (g) hereof. The
sampling operation is to be conducted by the city without advance notice to the
user.
   (g)   Extra strength surcharge rates. Extra strength surcharge fees should
be linked to the actual cost for plant operation.
Appendix A
Example of Calculation for Extra Strength Surcharges
   Wasteload Determination of BOD, SS and NH
 
Estimated BOD, suspended solids and ammonia wasteloads received at plant: See §
942.08(F) Extra Strength Surcharges
Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) = Previous year MGD x 8.34 lbs/gal x 200 mg/l x
365 days/yr = _____ lbs/yr
Suspended Solids (SS) = Previous year MGD x 8.34 lbs/gal x 200 mg/l x 365 days/
yr = _____ lbs/yr
Ammonia (NH) = Previous year MGD x 8.34 lbs/gal x 20 mg/l x 365 days/yr = _____
lbs/yr
 
   Extra Strength Surcharges
 
1. Plant O&M expenses for previous year = C
2. BOD received for previous year = B
3. Suspended Solids received for previous year = S
4. Ammonia received for previous year = NH
 
 
BOD Surcharges   C x .42 = Plant O & M Expenses for previous year x .42    =
      lbs BOD
             B         BOD received for previous year
 
 
Suspended Solids   C x .24 = Plant O & M Expenses for previous year x .24  =
      lbs SS
Surcharge       S      Suspended Solids received for previous year   
 
 
Ammonia Surcharge C x .05 = Plant O & M Expenses for previous year x .05 =
      lbs NH
             NH      Ammonia received for previous year
MGD = Million Gallons per Day
O & M = Operating and Maintenance Expenses
 
(Ord. 92-48, passed 5-26-1992; Ord. 93-14, passed 2-22-1993)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 942.09 BILLING FOR SEWER SERVICE.
   Bills for sewer service will be sent to all customers on a monthly basis and
they are payable by the due date listed on the bill. Bills not paid by the due
date will be charged a 10% penalty on the sewer charges. Customers with
delinquent accounts at the second billing will be notified that unless the
delinquent portion of the bill is paid by the due date, water services will be
discontinued. The 10% penalty is to be applied to the delinquent portion of the
account each and every month the account is delinquent until services are
discontinued.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 942.10 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   (a)   Bills for sewer service are, unless otherwise requested, mailed to the
premises where services were received. It is the responsibility of the owner or
owners of the premises to pay or arrange for payment of bills. If for example a
renter leaves the city, leaving behind an unpaid sewer bill, it is the
responsibility of the property owner to pay the bill in its entirety.
   (b)   Should the bill for any service remain unpaid for a period of 30 days,
the Public Utilities Director is authorized to cut off the services. When an
account becomes delinquent and services are discontinued, services shall only
be resumed upon payment of the entire bill and a fee as established and set
forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time. A customer’s record shall show no prior
offenses after 12 consecutive months without incidence of nonpayment shut-offs.
There is no charge for turning the water off.
   (c)   Within 90 days, the Finance Director is authorized and directed to
certify the delinquent bill to the County Auditor for collection as and at the
same time that other taxes and assessments are collected.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
   (d)   A charge will be added to any bill in case any check is returned from
the bank on which it is drawn as uncollectible for any reason. The charge shall
be as established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the charge shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 99-58, passed 4-12-1999)
   (e)   When the meter reader is unable to get a reading from an inside meter
after three consecutive months, or after an existing remote recorder is
suspected of malfunctioning for three consecutive months, the Public Utilities
Director is authorized to cut off the service provided the owner or owners are
given at least seven calendar days prior written notice by certified mail,
return receipt requested, and, if returned by ordinary mail to the subject
property thereof. Service shall not be resumed until the city has gained access
to the premises and a remote meter with recorder has been installed on the
existing malfunctioning remote recorder corrected.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 942.11 GENERAL RULES; MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Committing nuisance on sewer works grounds. No person shall throw
objects into or recover objects from any reservoirs, or deposit filth or
trespass, or commit a nuisance of any kind upon grounds set apart for the use
of the city sewer works.
   (b)   Hunting on sewer works grounds prohibited. No person shall hunt or
shoot or otherwise kill any bird or animal on any of the grounds or mutilate or
in any other way injure any tree or shrub upon the grounds or upon any property
set apart for the use of the city sewer works, or in any way injure any
property on the grounds. This shall not apply to extermination of harmful
animals or the removal of trees or shrubs by the city or authorized
contractors.
   (c)   Right of entry for inspection. Authorized employees of the Department
shall have the right at any reasonable time to enter the premises for the
purpose of inspecting any water service branch or fire protection service and
any or all piping or equipment connected thereto.
   (d)   Discharge of nonacceptable industrial wastes prohibited. The discharge
of nonacceptable industrial wastes, as hereinafter defined, into the system,
whether directly or indirectly, is hereby prohibited. Where investigation
reveals the presence in the system of nonacceptable industrial wastes emanating
from any lot, land, building or premises, located within or without the
corporate limits of the city, the owner, lessor, renter or occupant of the lot,
land, building or premises, shall be required to treat, neutralize or in other
ways prepare the noxious substance therein, to the satisfaction of Council.
   (e)   Sanitary sewage and industrial wastes defined. For the purposes of
this chapter, the terms SANITARY SEWAGE, ACCEPTABLE INDUSTRIAL WASTES and
NONACCEPTABLE INDUSTRIAL WASTES shall be defined as follows.
      (1)   ACCEPTABLE INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid organic waste materials
not containing toxic or explosive elements or other substances injurious to
sewers or sewage treatment processes, which result from any commercial,
manufacturing or industrial operation or process.
      (2)   NONACCEPTABLE INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes in which are
incorporated minerals, oil, acid, toxic metallic or chemical substances,
resulting from any commercial, manufacturing or industrial operation or
process.
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The waste from water closets, urinals, lavatories,
sinks, bath tubs, showers, household laundries, cellar floor drains, bars, soda
fountains, cuspidors, refrigerator drips and drinking fountains, and other
water-borne waste not constituting an industrial waste.
   (f)   Turn off and turn on charges. There shall be no charge when the city
is requested to turn off the water service at the curb box or removing the
water meter. There shall be no sewer charge during the period water service is
discontinued except for the sewer surcharge where applicable. A fee shall be
charged when the city is requested to restore services. The fees shall be as
established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
   (g)   Sewer charges may be adjusted. The owner of residential property and
manufacturing, business and commercial establishments, who use large quantities
of water which is not all discharged into the sewer system, may file
application for consideration of adjustment of their sewer billing with the
Public Utilities Director who shall determine a fair and equitable adjustment
of the billing.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 942.12 RESERVED.
§ 942.13 RIGHT TO INCREASE MINIMUM CHARGES.
   The charges defined in this chapter are minimum charges and the city
reserves the right and is obligated to increase them at any time should the
revenues of the sanitary sewer and water system prove insufficient to pay the
operating and maintenance expenses and the debt service charges of the revenue
bonds issued against the system.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 942.14 SALE COPIES.
   Copies of this chapter (Ordinance 90-61, as amended) shall be made available
for sale to the public at a fee as established and set forth in the fee
schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 942.15 RESERVED.
§ 942.16 RESERVED.
§ 942.17 CITY MANAGER AUTHORITY TO LIMIT USE.
   (a)   Authority of City Manager. The City Manager is hereby empowered to
enforce the following rules, regulations and criteria to limit water usage at
any time should the supply be inadequate to meet the demand, due to low
pressure, water main breaks or emergency situations.
   (b)   Criteria.
      (1)   A voluntary curtailment shall be declared if demand is such that
recovery of the water system to average capacity is not probable within the
next 24 hours, as determined by the City Manager.
      (2)   A mandatory ban shall be declared if the City Manager or his or her
designate determines that anticipated demand or actual demand exceeds the
production capacity of any portion of the water treatment or distribution
system so that depletion of supplies could endanger the peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the city.
   (c)   Rules and regulations.
      (1)   Voluntary curtailment and mandatory bans shall be declared by the
City Manager or a designate and that declaration shall identify usages that are
being controlled or precluded, as part of the ban or curtailment, according to
the following priority schedule. The schedule identifies the order of ban or
curtailment with the lowest priority listed first and highest priority listed
last:
         A.   Bulk water;
         B.   Swimming pools or any similar use;
         C.   Lawns and flower gardens or any similar use;
         D.   Public recreational facilities and privately owned shrubs, trees
and vegetable or fruit gardens or any similar use;
         E.   Light and heavy industrial use and commercial business - retail
or any similar use;
         F.   Residential usage, e.g. laundry, baths, drinking and cooking
water or any similar use;
         G.   Hospital, nursing home, critical care units, schools and licensed
day-care or any similar use; and
         H.   Fire Department and emergency services or any similar use.
      (2)   At the discretion of the City Manager or designate, a mandatory ban
or curtailment may be declared according to the criteria set forth in division
(b) hereof.
      (3)   Upon declaration of a mandatory ban or curtailment, the City
Manager shall notify the Mayor, City Council and the news media, and post a
notice of the ban or curtailment in a public place.
      (4)   The Chief of Police shall be directed by the City Manager to issue
warning citations to first offenders, and cite any additional violations, of
any declared mandatory ban on water usage. Upon declaration that a mandatory
ban or curtailment be made at a level under division (c)(1) hereof, the City
Manager is hereby directed to notify all higher priority users of a voluntary
curtailment.
      (5)   Penalties for violations of the ban will be added to the violator’s
monthly water bill.
      (6)   The City Manager shall report to Council on the condition of the
city’s water system at the next City Council meeting following the declaration
of a mandatory ban or voluntary curtailment.
      (7)   Any clarification or determination of similar use under the
priority schedule shall be made by the City Manager.
      (8)   A voluntary curtailment may be lifted at the discretion of the City
Manager or designate upon the determination of the City Manager or designate
that recovery of the water system to normal capacity is probable within the
next 24 hours. A mandatory ban may be lifted at the discretion of the City
Manager or designate upon the determination by the City Manager or designate
that anticipated demand or actual demand does not exceed the production
capacity of any portion of the water treatment or distribution system so that
the depletion of supplies could endanger the peace, health, safety and general
welfare of the city. Those parties previously notified of the imposition of the
ban or curtailment shall be notified of the lifting of the ban or curtailment.
      (9)   Upon declaration of a mandatory ban or curtailment, City Council
shall have the authority to impose a moratorium on all new water expansions
until the mandatory ban or curtailment is lifted.
      (10)   Upon declaration of a mandatory ban or curtailment, City Council
shall appoint a review board, consisting of three residents, who shall hear
requests from water users to vary the rules and regulations for individual
circumstances.
   (d)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates a mandatory ban shall receive a warning upon the
first occurrence. OCCURRENCE means a violation, along with subsequent actual
notice of the violation. Accordingly, once actual notice of a violation is
received, the party is subject to an additional charge for another violation,
even if it is an uninterrupted improper use of water.
      (2)   Whoever violates a mandatory ban on second and subsequent
occurrences shall be assessed on their water bill an additional charge for
improper water use in the sum of $150 for each occurrence.
      (3)   The above does not preclude the right of the city at any time to
pursue injunctive relief to seek strict adherence to the criteria, rules and
regulations set forth in divisions (b) and (c) hereof.
(Ord. 90-130, passed 10-22-1990)
§ 942.18 AFTER-HOURS CALL-OUT CHARGES.
   There shall be a charge for after-hours call-out services rendered at any
time other than the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. The
after hours call-out charge for any and all water services shall be as
established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the charge shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time. The after hours call-out charge for any and
all sewer services shall be as established and set forth in the fee schedule in
Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the charge shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time. No charge shall be made if the call-out is
due to the fault of the city.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 942.20 SYSTEM FEE FOR SEWER SERVICE.
   (a)   Purpose. In order to be assured that the cost of construction of the
city’s sewer services is borne equitably by all users of the services, the city
hereby establishes system fees to be imposed on all property owners who receive
the benefits of the services, but who have not been, or whose predecessor(s) in
interest were not, assessed or charged an extension line charge or otherwise
have not paid for the cost of construction for the services in proportion to
the benefits received. As used in this section OWNER includes the owner’s agent
or representative who has control of access to the property.
(Ord. 91-50, passed 5-13-1991)
   (b)   System fee. Any applicant for a tap-in permit for sewer service, or
both, who has not been, or whose predecessor(s) in interest were not, assessed,
charged an extension line charge, or has not otherwise paid for sewer service
construction, shall pay a system fee prior to a tap-in permit being issued as
follows.
      (1)   Sewer service system fee.
         A.   The system fee for sewer service shall be computed at a rate as
established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the rate shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time.
         B.   All funds collected pursuant to the provisions of this division
shall be deposited in the Sewer Line Charge Fund.
      (2)   Fees are separate. The water and sewer system fees are separate and
in addition to the tap-in fee and expansion fee.
(Ord. 96-91, passed 6-24-1996)
   (c)   Time of payment.
      (1)   The sewer system fees shall be paid at the time of an application
for a sewer tap-in permit. At the discretion of Council, the system fee(s) may
be paid on an installment basis in monthly payments not to exceed 12 months.
      (2)   Fees are separate. In addition, a finance charge of 1% per month
shall be imposed on any outstanding balance.
   (d)   Failure to pay system fee. Failure to pay the system fee(s) required
by this section shall result in the denial of a tap-in permit for an applicant
or the discontinuance of sewer service, to the property or premises served
until payment is made or until installments are made current. In lieu of
discontinuing service, Council shall have the discretion to certify any unpaid
amount to the County Auditor to be placed on the tax duplicate and collected as
other taxes on the property.
(Ord. 91-50, passed 5-13-1991)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 942.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates §
942.11(a), (b) or (c) shall be fined not more than $150 for each offense.
   (b)   Whoever violates §
942.11(n)(3) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined
not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
   (c)   Whoever violates any other provision of this chapter shall be subject
to the penalties set forth in §
943.99(a) and (b).
   (d)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned. The imposition
of penalties under divisions (a) through (c) hereof for violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall not relieve an offender of civil liability for
any damage caused by his or her unlawful act or acts.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
CHAPTER 943: PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SEWERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS
Section
943.01   Definitions
943.02   Certain prohibited discharges; privy vaults and septic tanks
943.03   Connection to public sewer required
943.04   Private sewage treatment
943.05   Building sewers and connections
943.06   Water and waste discharges; grease, oil and sand traps
943.07   Sewage system improvements, enlargements and extensions
943.08   Protection from damage, destruction or tampering
943.09   Right of entry for inspection and sampling
943.10   Sewer tapper’s license; fee; bond and insurance; revocation
943.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Installation, tap-in charges, see §
941.04
   Requirements for licensed water contractor, see §
941.12
Statutory reference:
   Interference with sewage flow, see R.C. § 4933.24
   Regulations to control house sewers and connections, see R.C. § 729.51
   Tampering with water hydrants, pipes or meters; unauthorized connections,
see R.C. § 4933.22
§ 943.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of
the terms used in this chapter shall be as follows.
      B.O.D. (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic or other unstable matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20°C expressed in parts per million by
weight.
      BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a building
drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other
drainage pipes inside the walls of any building, and conveys the discharge to
the building sewers, beginning three feet outside the outer face of the
building wall.
      BUILDING SEWER. The part of the horizontal piping of a drainage system
which extends from the end of the building drain and which receives the
discharge of the building drain and conveys it to a public sewer, private
sewer, individual sewage disposal system, or other point of disposal.
      CROSS CONNECTIONS. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other of unknown or questionable safety, whereby water may flow from one system
to the other, the direction of the flow depending on the pressure differential
between the two systems.
      DIRECTOR. The Public Utilities Director of the municipality, as appointed
by the City Manager, or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
      GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of
food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes resulting from the processes
employed in industrial establishments.
      INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the City Manager to
inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and their connection to
the public sewer system.
      NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
      pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in
grams per liter of solution.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation
or group.
      PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer privately owned and not directly controlled by
public authority.
      PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer directly controlled by public authority.
      SANITARY SEWER. A pipe which carries sewage and excludes storm, surface
and ground water.
      SEWAGE. Any liquid waste containing animal or vegetable matter in
suspension or solution, and may include liquids containing chemicals in
solution.
      SEWAGE WORKS SYSTEM. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of sanitary sewage.
      SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
      SHALL. Is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
      SLOPE. The grade or pitch of a line of pipe in reference to a horizontal
plane. In drainage it is usually expressed as the fall in a fraction of an inch
per foot length of pipe.
      STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer used for conveying rain water,
surface water, condensate, cooling water or similar liquid wastes, exclusive of
sewage and industrial waste.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
      TRAP. A device designed and installed so as to separate and retain
deleterious, hazardous or otherwise undesirable matter such as grease, oil or
sand from normal wastes and permit only normal sewage or liquid wastes to
discharge into the disposal terminal by gravity.
      WATER RECLAMATION PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used
for treating sewage.
      WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
   (b)   Any American Society for Testing and Materials or federal
specifications referred to in this chapter shall mean the latest published
specifications including amendments or revisions applicable at that time.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 943.02 CERTAIN PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; PRIVY VAULTS AND SEPTIC TANKS.
   (a)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in an
unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the city or in any
area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement, garbage
or other objectionable waste.
   (b)   No person shall discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or in
any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage, industrial waste or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (c)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall construct or maintain
any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facilities intended to
be used for the disposal of sewage.
   (d)   No person shall discharge to any storm sewer within the city, or any
area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage, industrial waste or other
polluted waters.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 943.03 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties, used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the city and abutting
any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the
future be located a public sewer of the city, is hereby required at his or her
expense to connect the facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within nine months after date
of official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is within 100 feet
of the property line.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 943.04 PRIVATE SEWAGE TREATMENT.
   (a)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
943.03, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage treatment
system complying with all recommendations of the State Environmental Protection
Agency and County Health Department.
   (b)   At a time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by
a private sewage treatment system as provided in §
943.03, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter, and any private sewage treatment facility shall be
abandoned, and removed or emptied and backfilled with earth or bank-run gravel.
Septic tank contents or effluent shall not be emptied into the public sewer
system, except under the direction and supervision of the Public Utilities
Director only, and he or she may direct that water be added to dilute the
contents at the expense of the owner. The permit shall so state that permission
to empty the septic tank contents or effluent is requested.
   (c)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage treatment
facilities referred to in division (a) above, in a sanitary manner at all
times, at no expense to the city.
   (d)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Authority
having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 943.05 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (a)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the office of the City Manager.
   (b)   There shall be a building sewer permit required for service
connections made to the public sewer system. The owner or his or her agent
shall make application on the special forms furnished by the city. The permit
applications shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Public Utilities
Director. A permit and inspection fee shall be as established and set forth in
the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time. The building sewer permit shall be paid to the
Finance Director at the time the application is filed.
   (c)   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner or the person
installing the building sewer for the owner shall indemnify the city from any
loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
   (d)   The drainage and plumbing system of each building and each dwelling
unit shall have a separate and independent connection with the public sewer
wherever possible. Where one building stands in the rear of another or an
interior lot and no connection to a sewer is available or can be made through
an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building drain from the
building on the front of the lot may be extended to the building on the rear of
the lot. This may be considered as one building drain for permit and inspection
purposes but for sewer service charge purposes the number of connections shall
be based upon the number of dwelling units being operated.
(Ord. 90-85, passed 8-13-1990)
   (e)   Old building sewers may be used with new buildings only when they are
found on examination and test by the Public Utilities Director to meet all
requirements and specifications of this chapter.
   (f)   The building sewer shall be constructed of PVC, SDR 35, or other sewer
pipe approved by the Public Utilities Director. If the building sewer is
installed in filled or unstable soil it shall be laid on a suitable concrete
bed or cradle as recommended by the Director.
   (g)   The size and slope of the building sewer from the building drain to
the main public sewer shall be subject to the approval of the Public Utilities
Director. In no case shall the diameter of the building sewer be less than four
inches between the building drain and a point no further than three to five
feet beyond the building foundation, and no less than six inches between that
point and the main public sewer. The slope of the pipe shall not be less than
one-fourth inch per foot unless otherwise approved by the Director. Proper
reducer or increaser fitting shall be used between all changes of pipe sizes
and materials so as to make a water and gas-tight joint in accordance with
division (k) hereof.
   (h)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be
weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The
building sewer shall be laid at a uniform grade and in straight alignment
insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with properly
curved pipes and fittings.
   (i)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sewage carried by the drains shall be lifted
by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer at the
owner’s expense. The size and type of pumping application and force main shall
be approved by the Public Utilities Director. No water-operated sewage ejector
shall be used.
   (j)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Public Utilities
Director. Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM C
12-58T specifications except as modified in these rules and regulations. No
backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected by the Director or
his or her representative. Building sewers and water service branches or
connections shall not be laid in the same trench.
   (k)   All joints and connections shall be made gas and water-tight. Joints
shall be made with approved materials in accordance with ASTM recommendations
and approved by the Public Utilities Director.
   (l)   (1)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
use the six-inch wye branch as installed in the public sewer if the wye branch
is available at a suitable location. If no wye branch is available or is not at
a suitable location on the public sewer then the owner shall install, at his or
her own expense, a six-inch wye branch in the public sewer at the location
specified by the Public Utilities Director. In either case the cost of
installation of the building sewer shall be at the sole expense of the owner.
      (2)   As an alternative, special fittings such as saddle hub tees may be
used for the connection when approved by the Public Utilities Director. In this
case, a neat hole may be cut in the public sewer to receive the saddle hub tee.
The invert of the building sewer at the point of connection shall be at the
same or at a higher elevation than the invert of the public sewer. A smooth
neat joint shall be made between the saddle hub tee and the main public sewer
and the connection made secure and watertight by encasement in concrete.
   (m)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector or
his or her representative.
   (n)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazards.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 943.06 WATER AND WASTE DISCHARGES; GREASE, OIL AND SAND TRAPS.
   (a)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water,
swimming pool water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary
sewer.
   (b)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
the sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the City Engineer. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process waters shall be discharged upon written approval of the Engineer to a
storm sewer or natural outlet.
   (c)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged any waste to a
public sewer which exceeds the city’s maximum allowable wastewater discharge
limits as provided by the Public Utilities Director. Except as hereinafter
provided, no person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 160°F;
      (2)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 milligrams per
liter of fat, oil, blood or grease at any given time, based on a grab sample;
(Ord. 94-137, passed 12-12-1994)
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch, manure or any other solid or viscuous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.5
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the water reclamation plant;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of the character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle the
materials at the sewage disposal plant; and
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
   (d)   (1)   Grease, oil and sand traps shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Public Utilities Director, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amount, or any
flammable wastes, sand and other harmful ingredients; except that the traps
shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All traps
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Director and shall be located
so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      (2)   Grease and oil traps shall be constructed of impervious materials
capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall
be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped with easily removable
covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gastight and watertight.
   (e)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand traps shall be maintained by
the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient operation at all
times, cleaned and disposed of properly as approved by the Public Utilities
Director.
   (f)   Where sewer connections are made to a building not being served by the
city water system, devices for measuring the sewage flow satisfactory to and
approved by the Public Utilities Director shall be installed by the owner at no
expense to the city.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
   (g)   (1)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes:
         A.   Having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 175
parts per million by weight;
         B.   Containing more than 175 parts per million by weight of suspended
solids;
         C.   Containing more than 15 parts per million of ammonia;
         D.   Containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics
described in division (c) hereof; or
         E.   Having an entire average daily flow greater than 5% of the
average daily sewage flow of the city, shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Public Utilities Director.
      (2)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Director, the owner shall
provide at his or her expense the preliminary treatment as may be necessary to:
         A.   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 500 parts per million,
the suspended solids to 600 parts per million, and reduce the ammonia to 20
parts per million by weight and be charged a premium rate which will be
established at the time the strength and/or quantity of the sewage is
determined, for treating more than 175 parts per million by weight of BOD or
containing more than 175 parts per million by weight of suspended solids or
containing more than 15 parts per million by weight of ammonia, premium rate to
be in addition to the rate as established in §
942.08;
         B.   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within
the maximum limits as provided in division (c) hereof; or
         C.   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of the waters or
wastes.
      (3)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating
to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the
approval of the Director and of the State Environmental Protection Agency, and
no construction of the facilities shall be commenced until approval is obtained
in writing.
   (h)   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation, by the owner at his or her expense.
   (i)   When required by the Public Utilities Director, the owner of any
property served by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation,
sampling and measurement of the wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be
accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with
plans approved by the Director. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at
his or her expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
   (j)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in divisions (c) and (g) hereof shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Sewage as published by the American Public Health
Association and shall be determined at the control manhole provided for in
division (i) hereof or upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole. In
the event that no special manhole has been required, the control manholes shall
be considered to be the nearest upstream and downstream manholes in the public
sewer to the point at which the sewer is connected.
(Ord. 92-48, passed 5-26-1992)
   (k)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between Council and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 943.07 SEWAGE SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS, ENLARGEMENTS AND EXTENSIONS.
   (a)   Improvements, enlargements and extensions to the sewage works system
shall be subject to the approval of Council with regard to design,
construction, operation and financing. Where construction and financing are to
be by private organizations, the organizations shall furnish a maintenance and
guarantee bond in the amount of 10% of the estimated cost of construction and
running for a period of one year after completion of construction and
acceptance by the city. Prior to the approval of the plans for improvements,
enlargements and extensions, the private organizations shall deposit with the
city a sum equal to 2.25% of the estimated cost of construction to cover
inspection costs. Any unused balances of the deposits remaining after
completion and acceptance of the construction shall be refunded.
   (b)   All sewage works system improvements, enlargements and extension
whether installed by a public agency or a private organization shall conform to
the standards as set forth herein.
      (1)   Sanitary sewers.
         A.   Sanitary sewers shall not be less than eight inches in diameter
and/or of adequate size and capacity to serve their tributary area on the
design basis of 100 gallons of daily sewage flow per capita per day. Design not
to exceed pipe one-half full or as determined by the Public Utilities Director.
Slope of the sanitary sewers shall be so as to provide a minimum velocity of
two feet per second or a maximum velocity of 15 feet per second when the sewer
is flowing full and the appropriate pipe roughness coefficient, using a
coefficient factor (roughness) N = 0.013, as approved by the Public Utilities
Director is utilized. Sanitary sewers must be of a type pipe approved by the
Director, in accordance with the standard of extra strength specifications of
the American Society for Testing and Materials as amended to the date of
installation. Where the depth of the trench from finished grade to the top of
the sewer pipe exceeds ten feet, the extra strength pipe shall be used. The
city reserves the right to specify and require the encasement of any sewer pipe
with concrete or the installation of the sewer pipe in concrete cradles if
foundation and construction conditions are such as to warrant the protection in
the opinion of the Director.
         B.   Concrete, steel or PVC pipe of suitable diameters and thickness
or tunnel liners of adequate internal diameter shall be installed for
encasement or enclosures of sanitary sewers to be constructed under all
railroads and where directed by the Public Utilities Director for the crossing
of the main highways. Joints for sanitary sewers shall be in accordance with
ASTM specifications, as amended to the date of installation and all subject to
the approval of the Director. The pipe shall be installed according to the
manufacturer’s directions and as approved by the Director. Sanitary sewers
shall be of the design and construction that infiltration or exfiltration shall
conform to city specifications. Leakage tests shall be conducted by the
contractor, at his or her expense, in the presence of the Public Utilities
Director or an authorized Inspector. The leakage tests shall be performed
between manholes and then measuring the rate of details of the method shall be
subject to the approval of the Director. The rate of leakage so determined
shall be understood to be the equivalent of the infiltration specified above.
Sanitary sewers shall be constructed in strict accordance with the standard
specifications of the American Society for Testing and Materials, designation
C12-58T, and as amended at date of installation except as modified herein.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
      (2)   Manholes. Manholes shall be constructed of precast concrete,
complete with cast iron frame cover and steps in accordance with the standard
detail drawings on file in the office of the City Manager, unless otherwise
approved by the Public Utilities Director. Distance between manholes shall not
exceed 400 feet, unless otherwise approved by the Public Utilities Director.
(Ord. 91-90, passed 9-23-1991)
§ 943.08 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE, DESTRUCTION OR TAMPERING.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the city sewage works system.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 943.09 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The Public Utilities Director, Inspector and other duly authorized employees
of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter upon all properties at all reasonable times for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing, in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 943.10 SEWER TAPPER’S LICENSE; FEE; BOND AND INSURANCE; REVOCATION.
   (a)   No person shall engage in the business of making connections with the
city sewers or drains or lateral connections, or installing service
connections, or making repairs thereto, unless he or she shall have been duly
licensed to engage in the business by the Public Utilities Director after a
suitable examination respecting his or her qualifications and competency. The
license shall not be issued until the applicant shall have filed with the
Director a bond in favor of the city in the sum of not less than $10,000, as
prescribed by the Director. The bond shall be executed by a surety company
authorized to do business in the state or by two or more personal sureties. The
bond shall be approved by the City Manager as to sufficiency and by the Law
Director as to form. The condition of the bond shall be that the applicant will
faithfully and in a workmanlike manner make and perfect the several connections
with necessary fixtures and laterals, which he or she may be called on to
construct in the course of his or her employment during the term for which the
license is issued and that the applicant will indemnify and save harmless the
city from all loss and damage which may be occasioned in any wise, by accident
or the want of care or skill on his or her part, in the prosecution of the work
of making sewer connections, or that may be occasioned by reason of any surface
or subsurface opening or openings made or caused to be made by him or her in
connection with the work. The applicant shall also carry liability insurance on
himself or herself and his or her employees in the amount of at least $50,000
liability, and $10,000 each occurrence of property damage liability; and the
insurance shall NOT contain any exclusions for collapse and underground work in
relation to digging, burrowing, backfilling and trenching.
   (b)   If any licensed sewer tapper shall violate any of the ordinances
relating to the making of sewer connections, or shall fail or refuse to perform
any of the duties imposed on him or her by this chapter, the Public Utilities
Director shall be authorized to revoke his or her license.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 943.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this chapter except
§
943.08 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a time limit of 30 days for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the
notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (b)   Any person who continues any violation beyond the time limit provided
for in division (a) hereof shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $500 for each violation. Each
day in which the violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (c)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city
by reason of the violation.
   (d)   Whoever violates any provision of §
943.08 shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 60 days,
or both for each offense.
(Ord. 90-61, passed 5-14-1990)
CHAPTER 947: WESTERN ROW ROAD DRAINAGE AREA
Section
947.01   Creation and description
947.02   Sewer tapping surcharge
Cross-reference:
   Sanitary sewer systems, see
Ch. 942
   Sewer rules and regulations, see
Ch. 943
   Water systems, see
Ch. 941
§ 947.01 CREATION AND DESCRIPTION.
   (a)   The general plan for the sanitary sewage needs of the Western Row Road
and I-71 drainage area is hereby adopted.
   (b)   The plan as adopted is attached to original Ordinance 48-1979, marked
Exhibit A and included herein by reference.
(Ord. 48-1979, passed 5-29-1979)
§ 947.02 SEWER TAPPING SURCHARGE.
   (a)   There is hereby created the Western Row Road drainage area which is to
provide the sewage facilities in the vicinity of Western Row Road and I-71 as
shown on the general plan adopted by Council for that area.
   (b)   There is hereby imposed a surcharge for each single-family residence
and for each family unit in any multi-family complex. The surcharge shall be as
established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the surcharge shall be
as set by ordinance from time to time. This charge is in addition to the
regular basic sewer system expansion fee which is also in effect for this area.
The surcharge is to be paid prior to the issuing of any building permit.
   (c)   The sewer surcharge for business and industrial development in the
Western Row Road drainage area shall be a minimum charge per tap as established
and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the surcharge shall be
as set by ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 49-1979, passed 5-29-1979)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
CHAPTER 949: INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
Section
949.01   General provisions
949.02   Definitions
949.03   Regulations
949.04   Fees
949.05   Administration
949.06   Enforcement
949.07   Reserved
949.08   Records retention
949.09   Miscellaneous
949.10   Severability
949.11   Conflict
949.99   Penalty
Appendix A: Priority Pollutants
Cross-reference:
   Sanitary sewer systems, see
Ch. 942
   Sewer rules and regulations, see
Ch. 943
   Water systems, see
Ch. 941
Statutory reference:
   Management and control of sewerage system, see R.C. § 729.50
§ 949.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (a)   Purpose and policy. This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for
discharges into the city wastewater collection and treatment system and enables
the city to protect public health in conformity with all applicable local,
state and federal laws relating thereto. The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the city wastewater
system which will interfere with the normal operation of the system in such a
way that will prevent the city’s compliance with requirements of their NPDES
discharge permit or contaminate the resulting municipal sludge; and
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the city wastewater
system which do not receive adequate treatment in the POTW, and which will pass
through the system into receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be
incompatible with the system.
   (b)   This chapter provides for the regulation of discharges into the city
wastewater system through the enforcement of permits. This chapter does not
provide for the recovery of operations, maintenance of replacement costs of the
POTW or the costs associated with the construction of collection and treatment
systems used by industrial discharges, in proportion to their use of the POTW,
which are the subject of separate enactments.
   (c)   Existing sewer use ordinances to remain in effect. Unless otherwise
specifically stated in the text, all existing sewer use ordinances shall remain
in effect.
(Ord. 93-17, passed 2-22-1993; Ord. 2012-63, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 2015-22,
passed 2-23-2015)
§ 949.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms
used in this chapter shall be as follows:
   ACT. The Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.), as amended; as well as
any guidelines, limitations, definitions and standards promulgated by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to the Act.
   APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any pretreatment limit or prohibitive
standard (federal and/or local) contained in this chapter deemed to be the most
restrictive which nondomestic users shall be required to comply with.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director in an NPDES state with an approved state
pretreatment program and the Administrator of the EPA in a non-NPDES state or
NPDES state without an approved state pretreatment program. The State of Ohio
is an NPDES state with an approved state pretreatment program.
   AUTHORIZED OR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DISCHARGER may be:
   (a)   If the discharger is a corporation:
      (1)   A president, secretary, treasurer or vice president of a
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy decision-making functions for the corporation; or
      (2)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or operating
facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management decisions
that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having the
explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment recommendations,
initiates and directs other comprehensive measures to assure long-term
environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can ensure
that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather complete
and accurate information for individual wastewater discharge permit
regulations; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or
delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
   (b)   If the discharger is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor respectively.
   (c)   If the discharger is a federal, state, or local governmental facility:
a director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
   (d)   The individuals described in divisions (a) through (c) of this
definition, above, may designate a DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE if the
authorization is in writing, the authorization specifies the individual or
position responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the
discharge originates or having overall responsibility for environmental matters
for the company, and the written authorization is submitted to the authority.
   AVERAGE MONTHLY DISCHARGE LIMITATION. The highest allowable average of
“daily discharges” over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all daily
discharges measured during a calendar month divided by the number of daily
discharges measured during that month.
   AVERAGE WEEKLY DISCHARGE LIMITATION. The highest allowable average of “daily
discharges” over a calendar week, calculated as the sum of all daily discharges
measured during a calendar week divided by the number of daily discharges
measured during that week.
   BENEFICIAL USES. Include, but are not limited to, domestic, municipal,
agricultural and industrial use, power generation, recreation, aesthetic
enjoyment, navigation, the preservation and enhancement of fish, wildlife and
other aquatic resources or reserves and other uses, both tangible or
intangible, as specified by state or federal law.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). The schedules of activities, prohibition of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in § 949.03(a). BMPs include treatment requirements,
operating procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or
leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw material storage.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastestream from any portion of a
discharger’s treatment facility.
   CITY. The City of Mason who shall be the governmental entity enacting and
enforcing this chapter.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Pollutants which the treatment plant was designed to
treat which are BOD, SS, phosphorus and fecal coliform bacteria.
   COMPLIANCE DATE. The date set for completion of the compliance schedule
issued with the permit.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A sample containing a minimum of eight discrete samples
taken at equal time intervals over the compositing period or proportional to
the flow rate over the compositing period. More than the minimum number of
discrete samples will be required where the wastewater loading is highly
variable.
   DAILY DISCHARGE. The discharge of a pollutant measured during a calendar day
or any 24-hour period that reasonably represents the calendar for purposes of
sampling.
   DIRECTOR. The Public Utilities Director of the municipality or his
authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   DISCHARGER. Any user which discharges wastewater into the POTW by mean of
pipes, conduits, pumping stations, force mains and all constructed devices and
appliances appurtenant thereto.
   EASEMENT. An acquire land right of the specific use of land owned by others.
   GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking or dispensing of
food and from handling, storage or sale of produce.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a wastestream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the wastestream and without consideration of
time.
   GROUND (SHREDDED) GARBAGE. Garbage that is shredded to such a degree that
all particles shall be carried freely in suspension under the conditions
normally prevailing in the sewerage system, with no particle being greater than
one-half inch in dimension.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of non-domestic
pollutants from a source regulated under § 307(b) and (c) of the Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 1347(b) and (c), into a POTW.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial or commercial manufacturing or processing
facility that discharges industrial waste to a POTW.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous waste resulting from any
industrial, manufacturing, trade or business process or from the development,
recovery or processing of natural resources.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE PERMIT. A permit to deposit or discharge industrial waste
into any sanitary sewer as issued by the POTW.
   INFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
into a drain, sewer, receptacle or outlet.
   INTERFERENCE.
      (1)   An industrial discharge which, alone or in conjunction with
discharges by other sources, both:
         A.   Inhibits or disrupts the publicly owned treatment works, its
treatment process or operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
         B.   Therefore is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the
POTW’s National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit (including an
increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or of the prevention of
sewage sludge disposal.
      (2)   The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by
the POTW.
   MAJOR SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRY. An industrial user that:
      (1)   The user is subject to categorical pretreatment standards;
      (2)   The user discharges 25,000 gallons per day or more of process
wastewater (process wastewater excludes sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler
blowdown wastewaters);
      (3)   The user contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or
more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the treatment
plant;
      (4)   The user’s discharge has a reasonable potential, in the judgment of
the Director, to cause pass-through and/or interference at the POTW; or
      (5)   The user’s discharge into the POTW has caused or has the potential
to cause any violation of the terms and conditions of any permit under which
the POTW is operating, including plan approvals.
   MAXIMUM DAILY DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS. The highest allowable “daily
discharge.”
   MAY. Indicates a discretionary condition.
   MINOR SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRY. An industrial user that:
      (1)   Has wastewater flow of less than 25,000 gallons per average working
day;
      (2)   Has flow less than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal system
receiving the wastewater;
      (3)   Is found by the city, state of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) not to have significant impact, either singly or in combination
with other contributing industries, on the wastewater treatment system, the
quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality or air emissions generated by
the system; and/or
      (4)   Discharges less quantities of BOD, COD, suspended solids or other
substances compatible with the wastewater treatment plant operational
processes.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRE- TREATMENT STANDARDS or CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT
STANDARDS.  Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by
the EPA in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1347) which
applies to a specific category of the industrial users.
   NEW SOURCE. Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which
commenced after the publication of proposed  pretreatment standards under § 307
(c) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1347(c) which shall be applicable to the
source if such standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that
section, provided that:
      (1)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed at
a site at which no other source is located; or
      (2)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally replaces
the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at
an existing source; or
      (3)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered.
   NON-SIGNIFICANT CATEGORICAL INDUSTRY. An industrial user that:
      (1)   Does not discharge more than 100 gallons per day of total
categorical wastewater that does not include sanitary, non-contact cooling and
boiler blowdown wastewater unless it is specifically included in the
categorical pretreatment standard.
      (2)   Does not discharge untreated concentrated wastewater, which is
regulated by categorical pretreatment standards.
      (3)   Must submit an annual certification statement, with appropriate
justification that indicates the facility:
         A.   Meets the requirements of a NON-SIGNIFICANT CATEGORICAL
INDUSTRIAL user;
         B.   Is meeting all pretreatment standards and requirements; and
         C.   Did not discharge more than 100 gallons of total categorical
wastewater on any day.
         D.   Include the following statements:
            1.   Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly
responsible for managing compliance with the categorical pretreatment standards
under 40 CFR Part (specify applicable part in 40 CFR), I certify that to the
best of my knowledge and belief, during the period from (specify month, day and
year) to (specify month, day and year);
            2.   The facility described as (insert facility name) met the
definition of a non-significant categorical industrial user as described in
paragraph (P) of rule 3745-3-01 of the Ohio Administrative Code;
            3.   The facility complied with all applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements during the reporting period; and
            4.   The facility never discharged more than 100 gallons of total
categorical wastewater on any given day during this reporting period.
            This compliance certification is based upon the following
information: Appropriate justifi-cation in support of this statement is
required to be included with the certification statement. Appro- priate
justification may include water billing records, production records, etc.
         E.   The Director will evaluate whether the discharger meets the
criteria for a non-significant categorical industrial user at least once a
year. The evaluation will be documented on the appropriate form.
   NON-SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRY. An industrial user that:
      (1)   Has a wastewater discharge flow of less than 25,000 gallons per
average working day;
      (2)   Is found by the city, state or the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) to have no impact on the wastewater treatment system, the quality
of sludge, the system’s effluent quality or air emissions generated by the
system; and/or
      (3)   Discharges normal domestic quantities of wastewater which are
compatible with the wastewater treatment plant operational processes.
   NPDES PERMIT. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit
setting forth conditions for the discharge of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant to Pub. Law
No. 92-500, § 402, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   O AND M. Operation and maintenance.
   OTHER WASTES. Decayed wood, sawdust, shavings, bark, lime, refuse, ashes,
garbage, offal, oil, tar, chemicals and all other substances except sewage and
industrial wastes.
   PASS-THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state in
quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of
the POTW’s NPDES permit including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, partnership, co-
partnership, joint stock company, trust, estate, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency, the State of Ohio, the United
States of America or other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents
or assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine; the singular shall
include the plural where indicated by the context.
   POLLUTANT. Any substance discharged into a POTW or its collection system,
listed in
Appendix A hereto, or any substance which upon exposure to or assimilation into
any organism will cause adverse effects such as cancer, genetic mutations or
physiological manifestations as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307
(a) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1347(a).
   POLLUTANT PARAMETERS.
      (1)   BIOLOGICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD) OF SEWAGE. Sewage means sewage
effluent, polluted waters or industrial wastes shall mean the quantity of
dissolved oxygen in milligrams per liter required during stabilization of the
decomposable organic matter by aerobic biochemical action under standard
laboratory procedures for five days at 20°C. The laboratory determinations
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
      (2)   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). Sewage means sewage effluent,
polluted waters or industrial wastes is a measure of the oxygen equivalent of
that portion of the organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation
by a strong chemical oxidant. The laboratory determination shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
      (3)   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the
intestinal tract of man and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an
indicator of pollution.
      (4)   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that
will separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved
pretreatment facility.
      (5)   GREASE AND OIL. A group of substances including hydrocarbons, fatty
acids, soaps, fats, waxes, oils or any other material that is extracted by a
solvent from an acidified sample and that is not volatilized during the
laboratory test procedures. GREASES AND OILS are defined by the method of their
determination in accordance with Standard Methods.
      (6)   GREASES AND OIL OF ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE ORIGIN.  Substances that
are not readily biodegradable in nature such as are discharged by meatpacking,
vegetable oil and fat industries, food processors, canneries and restaurants.
      (7)   GREASES AND OIL OF MINERAL ORIGIN. Substances that are less readily
biodegradable than grease and oil of animal or vegetable origin; and are
derived from a petroleum source. Such substances include machinery lubricating
oils, gasoline station wastes, petroleum refinery wastes and storage depot
wastes.
      (8)   pH. The logarithm (to the base 10) of the reciprocal of the
hydrogen ion concentration of a solution expressed in gram atoms per liter of
solution.
      (9)   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids which either float on the surface of or
are in suspension in water, sewage or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be expressed in milligrams per
liter. Quantitative determination shall be made in accordance with procedures
set forth in Standard Methods.
      (10)   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
      (11)   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids
transformed to gases or vapors when heated at 550°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
      (12)   Any other pollutant parameter deemed appropriate.
   POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of the waters of the state by waste
to a degree which unreasonably affects such waters for beneficial uses or
facilities which serve such beneficial uses. The man-made or man induced
alteration of the chemical, physical, biological and radiological integrity of
water.
   POTW. Any sewage treatment works and the sewers and conveyance appurtenances
discharging thereto, owned and operated by the city.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW.
(Ord. 93-17; passed 2-22-1993.)
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS AND/OR REQUIREMENTS. All applicable federal, state
and local standards and/or requirements related to pretreatment imposed on a
discharger. Also referred to as LOCAL LIMITS.
(Ord. 93-77; passed 7-12-1993.)
   RECEIVING STREAM. The watercourse, stream or body of water receiving the
waters finally discharged from the POTW.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage to
the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or substantial
and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be expected to
occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not mean economic
loss caused by delays in production.
   SEWAGE. Water-carried human wastes or a combination of water-carried wastes
from residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial
establishments.
   SEWER. Any pipe, conduit, ditch or other device used to collect and
transport sewage or storm water from the generating source.
   SHALL. Mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE. Any significant industrial user that violates any
of the following criteria or any other industrial discharger that violates
divisions (3), (4) or (8) below:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all the measurements for the same pollutant
parameter taken during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits as defined
in this chapter;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits,
as defined by this chapter multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD,
TSS, fats, oils and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(1) (daily maximum, long-term average,
instantaneous limit, or narrative standard) the POTW determines has caused,
alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through,
including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public;
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the POTW’s
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 45 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports,
and reports on adherence to compliance schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation(s), which may include a violation of best
management practices (BMP), which the POTW determines will adversely affect the
operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment
plant or air pollution control facility or any other waste having similar
characteristics and effects as defined in standards issued under §§ 402 and 405
of the Federal Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1342 and 1345,  and in the applicable
requirements under the Solid Waste Disposal Act, Pub. Law No. 94-580, §§ 3001,
3004 and 4004, being U.S.C. §§ 6921, 6924 and 6949.
   SLUGLOAD. The discharge of any pollutant, including oxygen demanding
pollutants (BOD, etc.) released at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which will affect the collection system and/or performance of the wastewater
treatment works and which will cause interference, as previously defined
hereof, or pass-through as previously defined in hereof.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to Pub. Law No. 92-500, § 307(a), being 33
U.S.C. § 1347(a).
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Those substances referred to in § 307(a) of the Act, being
33 U.S.C. § 1347(a), as well as any other known potential substances capable of
producing toxic effects.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of a quality that has not been altered chemically,
physically, biologically or radiologically by man or that would benefit by
discharge to sanitary sewers and subsequent wastewater treatment.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which a discharger unintentionally and
temporarily is in a state of noncompliance with the standards set forth in this
chapter hereto due to factors beyond the reasonable control of the discharger,
and excluding noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error,
improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack
of preventative maintenance or careless or improper operation thereof.
   UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The United States
Environmental Protection Agency, or, where appropriate, the term may also be
used as a designation for the administrator or other duly authorized official
of such agency.
   USER. Any person that discharges, causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the POTW.
   WASTEWATER. Industrial waste or sewage or any other waste that is discharged
to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS. The individual chemical,
physical, bacteriological and radiological parameters, including volume, flow
rate and such other parameters that serve to define, classify or measure the
contents, quality, quantity and strength of wastewater.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 93-17, passed 2-22-1993; Ord. 2012-63, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 2015-22,
passed 2-23-2015)
§ 949.03 REGULATIONS.
   (a)   General discharge prohibitions.
      (1)   No discharger shall contribute or cause to be discharged, directly
or indirectly, any of the following described substances into the POTW or
otherwise to the facilities of the city:
         A.   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction to cause
fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the operation of the
POTW, including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint
of less than 140°F or 60°C using the test method specified in 40 C.F.R. §
261.21;
         B.   Solid or viscous substances which will or may cause obstruction
to the flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the POTW;
         C.   Any wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or higher than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment or personnel of the system;
         D.   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient
quantity, either singly or by interaction, to injure or interfere with any
wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or to
exceed the limitation set forth in this chapter. A toxic pollutant shall
include but not be limited to any pollutant identified in the Toxic Pollutant
List set forth in
Appendix A hereto;
         E.   Any noxious, malodorous or toxic liquid, gases, vapors, fumes or
solids which either singly or by interaction are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair or may cause acute worker health and safety
problems;
         F.   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or treatment
residues, sludges or scums to be unsuitable for reclamation and reuse or to
interfere with the reclamation process. In no case shall a substance discharged
to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal
criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under § 405 of the Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 1345; any criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use or
disposal developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§
6901 et seq., the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic
Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., or state standards
applicable to the sludge management method being used;
         G.   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES and/
or other disposal system permits;
         H.   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity or cause structural damage in the POTW resulting in interference; but
in no case, wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW
treatment plant which exceeds 40°C (104°F);
         I.   Any slugload;
         J.    Any unpolluted water except such water as may be discharged to a
sewer which is designated to carry storm water;
         K.   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such half-life or concentrations as exceed limits in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations;
         L.   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a
public nuisance;
         M.   Any petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of
mineral amounts that may pass through or cause interference; or
         N.   Hauled septic or industrial wastes except at locations and at
times as designated by the Director. Any removal of manhole lids, or other
access to the sewer system for the purpose of discharging wastes at times and/
or locations other than those designated by the Director, or without the
expressed written permission of the Director, shall be considered a violation
and shall be subject to enforcement action including fines and penalties
subsequently described in §
949.99.
      (2)   When the Director determines that a discharger is contributing any
of the above enumerated substances in such amounts as to interfere with the
operation of the POTW, the Director shall: advise the discharger of the impact
of the contribution on the POTW; and develop effluent limits for such
discharger to correct the interference with the POTW.
   (b)   Limitations on wastewater strength.
      (1)   National categorical pretreatment standards. National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards as promulgated by the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency (U.S. EPA) pursuant to the Act shall be met by all dischargers of the
regulated industrial categories. An application for modification of the
National Categorical Pretreatment Standards may be considered for submittal to
the Regional Administrator by the Director, when the city’s wastewater
treatment system achieves consistent removal of the pollutants as defined by 40
C.F.R. § 403.7.
      (2)   Right of revision. The city reserves the right to amend this
chapter to provide for more stringent limitations or requirements on discharges
to the POTW where deemed necessary to comply with the objectives set forth in §
949.01(a).
      (3)   Dilution. No discharger shall increase the use of potable or
process water in any way, nor mix separate waste streams for the purpose of
diluting a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment
to achieve compliance with the standards set forth in this chapter. The
Director may impose mass limitations on dischargers which are using dilution to
meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases where
the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
      (4)   Supplementary limitations. No discharger shall discharge or cause
to be discharged into the sewerage system any of the following pollutants in
concentrations above those specifically permitted in a wastewater discharge
permit issued by the city. Discharge permits shall impose maximum discharge
concentration or mass based limits where appropriate. In the absence of such
specific wastewater discharge permit limitations, no person shall discharge any
of the following pollutants above levels normally found in domestic sewage.
Ag (silver)
As (arsenic)
Cd (cadmium)
CN (free cyanide)
Cr (total chromium)
Cr (hexavalent chromium)
Cu (copper)
Hg (mercury)
   grease and oil of animal, vegetable and/or mineral origin
Mo (molybdenum)
Ni (nickel)
Pb (lead)
   phenols
Se (selenium)
Tl (thallium)
Zn (zinc)
 
      (5)   Best management practices (BMPs). The authority may develop BMPs by
ordinance or in individual wastewater discharge permits to implement local
limits and the requirements of §
949.03.
   (c)   Accidental discharges.
      (1)   Each discharger shall provide protection from accidental discharge
of prohibited or restricted materials or substances established by this
chapter. Where necessary, facilities to prevent accidental discharge of
prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained at the discharger’s cost
and expense.
      (2)   The Director shall evaluate whether each significant industrial
user needs an accidental discharge/slug load discharge control plan or other
action to control such discharges. The Director may require any discharger to
develop, submit for approval, and implement such a plan or take other action
that may be necessary to control accidental or slug load discharges.
      (3)   An accidental discharge/slug load discharge control plan shall
address, at a minimum, the following:
         A.   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine and
batch discharges.
         B.   Description of stored chemicals.
         C.   Procedures for immediately notifying the authority of any
accidental discharge or slug load discharge, as required in §
949.03(c)(6).
         D.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
load discharge. Such procedures include but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, employee training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
      (4)   The Director shall evaluate the need for a plan or structure to
control a potential slug load discharge at least once per control mechanism
cycle.
      (5)   Each existing discharger shall complete its plan and submit same to
the Director within 180 days after the effective date of this chapter. No
discharger who discharges to the city POTW after the aforesaid date shall be
permitted to introduce pollutants into the system until accidental discharge
protection procedures have been approved by the Director. Review and approval
of such plans and operating procedures by the Director shall not relieve the
discharger from the responsibility to modify its facility as necessary to meet
the requirements of this chapter.
      (6)   Dischargers shall verbally notify the Director immediately upon the
occurrence of a “slug load” or accidental discharge of substances prohibited by
this chapter and shall submit a written notification letter to the Director
within five working days. Both notifications shall include location of
discharge, date and time thereof, type of waste, concentration and volume and
corrective actions. Any discharger who discharges a slug load of prohibited
materials shall be liable for any expense, loss or damage to the POTW, in
addition to the amount of any fines imposed on the Authority on account thereof
under state or federal law.
      (7)   Employers shall instruct all employees who may cause or discover a
slug load or accidental discharge with respect to proper emergency notification
procedures including the proper person to notify at the POTW.
      (8)   Dischargers must notify the Director of any significant changes to
the discharger’s operations which might alter the nature, quality, or volume of
the wastewater discharge, at least 30 days before the change is implemented.
   (d)   Bypass not violating applicable pretreatment standards or
requirements. A discharger may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provisions of divisions (e) and (f) hereof.
   (e)   Notice.
      (1)   If a discharger knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Director, if possible at least ten days before the
date of the bypass.
      (2)   A discharger shall submit oral notice of an unanticipated bypass
that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards to the Director within 24 hours
from the time the discharger becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission
shall also be provided within five days of the time the discharger becomes
aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the
bypass and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and
times, and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is
expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent reoccurrence of the bypass. The Director may waive the written report
on a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
   (f)   Prohibition of bypass.
      (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Director may take enforcement action
against a discharger for a bypass, unless:
         A.   The bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury or severe property damage;
         B.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventative maintenance; and
         C.   The discharger submitted notices as required under division (e)
hereof.
      (2)   The Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering
its adverse effects, if the Director determined that it will meet the three
conditions listed in division (f)(1) hereof.
   (g)   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste.
      (1)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall
notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. Part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste
as set forth in 40 C.F.R. Part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the
type of discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the user discharges more
than 100 kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the
notification also shall contain the following information to the extent such
information is known and readily available to the user: an identification of
the hazardous constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass
and concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharged during
that calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the
wastestream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months. All
notifications must take place no later than 180 days after the discharge
commences. Any notification under this paragraph need be submitted only once
for each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications of changed
conditions must be submitted under division (e)(2) of this section. The
notification requirement in this section does not apply to pollutants already
reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment standards under the self-
monitoring requirements of division (b)(4) of this section.
      (2)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (g)(1),
above, during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15
kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as
specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15
kilograms of nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity
of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e),
requires a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user
discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require
additional notification.
      (3)   In the case of any new regulations under § 3001 of RCRA identifying
additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional
substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify [the Director], the EPA
Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and state hazardous waste
authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days of the effective
date of such regulations.
      (4)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
      (5)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance
not otherwise permitted to be discharged by this ordinance, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. 93-17, passed 2-22-1993; Ord. 2012-63, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 2015-22,
passed 2-23-2015)
§ 949.04 FEES.
   (a)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to provide for the payment
of fees from dischargers to the city’s POTW, to compensate the city for the
cost of administration of the pretreatment program established herein.
   (b)   Charges and fees. The city shall adopt charges and fees which may
include:
      (1)   Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
      (2)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction;
      (3)   Fees for permit applications;
      (4)   Fees for filing appeals;
      (5)   Fees for sampling and laboratory analysis; and
      (6)   Fees for equipment.
(Ord. 93-17, passed 2-22-1993; Ord. 2012-63, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 2015-22,
passed 2-23-2015)
§ 949.05 ADMINISTRATION.
   (a)   Wastewater dischargers. It shall be unlawful to discharge sewage,
industrial wastes or other wastes to any sewer within the jurisdiction of the
city, and/or to the POTW without having first complied with the terms of this
chapter and the wastewater discharge permit.
   (b)   Wastewater contribution permits.
      (1)   General permits. All existing major significant industries and
minor significant industries connected to or contributing to the POTW shall
apply for a wastewater discharge permit within a period established by the
POTW, but not to exceed 180 days after the effective date of this chapter. All
future industrial dischargers proposing to connect to or to contribute to the
POTW shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit. If the Director deems
necessary, existing and future dischargers shall receive a permit before
connecting to or contributing to the POTW.
      (2)   Permit application. Industrial dischargers required to obtain a
wastewater discharge permit shall complete and file with the city an
application in the form prescribed by the city. Existing major significant
industries and minor significant industries shall apply for a wastewater
discharge permit within a period established by the POTW, but not to exceed ten
days after the effective date of this chapter. Proposed new industrial
dischargers shall apply at least 90 days prior to connecting to or contributing
to the POTW. In support of the application, the industrial discharger shall
submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the information which
follows. If actual data are not known, the best available information should be
given.
         A.   Name, address, location, owner and operator of the facility and
any environmental control permits held by or for the facility;
         B.   SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
         C.   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including but not
limited to those mentioned in this chapter as determined by a reliable
analytical laboratory. Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance
with procedures established by the U.S. EPA pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act and
contained in 40 C.F.R. Part 136, as amended;
         D.   Time and duration of discharges;
         E.   Average daily and 30-minute peak wastewater flow, in gallons per
day, including daily, monthly and seasonal variations, if any. All flows shall
be measured unless other verifiable techniques are approved by the city due to
cost or non-feasibility;
         F.   A schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge
to the POTW from the regulated process;
         G.   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or may be discharged to the sewers
or works of the city;
         H.   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants or
materials prohibited by this chapter in the discharge, together with a
statement regarding whether or not compliance is being achieved with this
chapter on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional operation and
maintenance activities and/or additional pretreatment is required for the
discharger to comply with this chapter;
         I.   When additional pretreatment and/or O&M are required, a
compliance schedule as subsequently defined in §
949.06(i);
         J.   Average rate of production;
         K.   All sewers shall have an inspection and sampling manhole or
structure accessible at all times to the city for use in sampling the
industry’s discharge to assure compliance with this chapter. Before the
inspection and sampling structure is constructed, plans shall be reviewed and
approved by the Director.
         L.   The Director shall evaluate the data furnished by the discharger.
He may require additional information if the Director finds that inadequate
information was submitted by the discharger by submitting a written request to
the discharger identifying the information required. This request shall be sent
by certified mail within 30 days of the receipt by the Director of the permit
application. The information requested by the Director shall be provided within
30 days of the receipt of the request by the discharger. After evaluation and
acceptance of the data furnished, including detailed plans of facilities and
operating procedures indicating the discharger has provided sufficient
protection from accidental discharges of restricted materials, the Director may
issue a wastewater discharge permit subject to the terms and conditions
provided herein. The Director reserves the right to reevaluate all dischargers
at any time and require a permit to be issued. The Director reserves the right
to deny or condition new or increased contributions of pollutants for all
dischargers at any time.
         M.   Any requests for a monitoring waiver (or a renewal of an approved
monitoring waiver) for a pollutant neither present nor expected to be present
in the discharge based on division (c)(3)J. hereof [40 CFR 403.12(e)(2)].
      (3)   Permit modifications.
         A.   The city reserves the right to amend this chapter and the terms
and conditions thereof in order to assure compliance by the city with
applicable laws and regulations.
         B.   Within 12 months of the promulgation of a National Categorical
Pretreatment Standard, the wastewater discharge permits of discharges subject
to such standard shall be revised to require compliance with such standard
within the time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a discharger subject
to a National Categorical Pretreatment Standard has not previously submitted an
application as required by division (b)(2) hereof, the discharger shall apply
for a wastewater discharge permit within 180 days after the promulgation of the
applicable National Categorical Pretreatment Standard. In addition, any
discharger with an existing wastewater discharge permit shall submit to the
city within 180 days after the promulgation of an applicable National
Categorical Pretreatment Standard, the information required by divisions (b)
(2)H. and (b)(2)I. hereof. Compliance by existing sources with categorical
pretreatment standards shall be within three years of the date the standard is
effective unless a shorter compliance time is specified in the appropriate
subpart of 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N. Existing sources which become
dischargers subsequent to promulgation of an applicable categorical
pretreatment standard shall be considered existing dischargers except where
such sources meet the definition of a new source as defined in §
949.02. New sources shall install and have in operating condition, and shall
“start-up” all pollution control equipment required to meet applicable
pretreatment standards before beginning to discharge. Within the shortest
feasible time, not to exceed 90 days, new sources shall meet all applicable
pretreatment standards.
      (4)   Permit conditions. Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly
subject to all provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations,
user charges and fees established by the city. Permits may contain the
following:
         A.   Limits on the average and/or maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
         B.   Limits on average and/or maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
         C.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
         D.   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for tests and
reporting schedule;
         E.   Compliance schedule;
         F.   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports as outlined in division (c) hereof;
         G.   Requirements for maintaining and retaining pretreatment facility
records relating to wastewater discharge as specified by the city, and
affording city access thereto;
         H.   Requirements for notification of the city of any new introduction
of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character
of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system pursuant to division (i) hereof;
         I.   Requirements for notification of slugload discharges pursuant to
§
949.03(c); and
         J.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
      (5)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time
period, not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than
one year or may be stated to expire on a specific date. All permit holders
shall apply for permit reissuance a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration
of the existing permit. The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject
to modification by the city during the term of the permit as limitations or
requirements as identified in §
949.03 are modified or other just cause exists. The permit holder shall be
informed of any proposed changes in its permit at least 30 days prior to the
effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall
include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
      (6)   Permit transfer. Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a
specific industrial discharger for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge
permit shall not be reassigned or transferred or sold to a new owner, new
industrial discharger, different premises or a new or changed operation without
the approval of the city. Any succeeding owner or industrial discharger shall
also comply with the terms and conditions of the existing permit.
      (7)   Pollutant monitoring waiver. The process for seeking a new waiver
from monitoring for a pollutant neither present nor expected to be present in
the discharge in accordance with division (c)(3)J. hereof
      (8)   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the Director per division (c)
(3)J. hereof must be included as a condition in the user’s permit [or other
control mechanism].
   (c)   Reporting requirements for permittee.
      (1)   Baseline monitoring report.
         A.   Within 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or 180 days after the final administrative decision made
upon a category determination submission under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4),
whichever is later, any discharger subject to pretreatment standards and
requirements and currently discharging or scheduled to discharge to the POTW
shall submit to the Director a report containing information as indicated in
divisions (b)(2)A. through (b)(2)G. hereof, inclusive. The report shall state
whether the applicable pretreatment standards requirements and/or best
management practices (BMPs) are being met on a consistent basis and, if not,
what additional operation and maintenance and/or pretreatment is necessary to
bring the discharger into compliance with the applicable pretreatment standards
or requirements. This statement shall be signed by an authorized representative
of the discharger.
         B.   At least 90 days prior to commencement of discharge, new sources
and sources that become dischargers, subsequent to the promulgation of an
applicable categorical standard, shall be required to submit to the Director a
report containing information as indicated in divisions (b)(2)A. through (b)
(2)G. hereof, inclusive. New sources shall also be required to include in this
report information on the method of pretreatment the discharger intends to use
to meet applicable pretreatment standards. New sources shall give estimates of
the information requested in divisions (b)(2)E. and (b)(2)G. hereof.
         C.   A minimum of four grab samples shall be used for pH, cyanide,
total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide, and volatile organics. For all other
pollutants, 24-hour composite samples shall be obtained through flow-
proportional composite sampling techniques where feasible. The Director may
waive flow-proportional composite sampling for any discharger that demonstrates
that flow- proportional sampling is not feasible. In such cases, samples may be
obtained through time proportional composite sampling techniques or through a
minimum of four grab samples where the discharger demonstrates that this shall
provide a representative sample of the effluent being discharged.
      (2)   Compliance date reports.
         A.   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical pretreatment standards or in the case of a new source
following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any
discharger subject to pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to
the Director a report containing information as indicated in divisions (b)(2)D.
through (b)(2)H. hereof, inclusive. The report shall state whether the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on a consistent
basis and, if not, what additional operation and maintenance and/or
pretreatment is necessary to bring the discharger into compliance with the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements. This statement shall be
signed by an authorized representative of the discharger.
         B.   For dischargers subject to equivalent mass or concentration
limits established by the Director in accordance with the procedures in 40
C.F.R. § 403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the
discharger’s long term production rate. For all other dischargers subject to
categorical pretreatment standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant
discharge per unit of production (or other measure of operation), this report
shall include the discharger’s actual production during the appropriate
sampling period. This statement shall be signed by an authorized representative
of the discharger.
      (3)   Periodic compliance reports.
         A.   Any discharger subject to a pretreatment standard set forth in
this chapter, after the compliance date of such pretreatment standard, or, in
the case of a new discharger, after commencement of the discharge to the city,
shall submit to the Director during the months of June and December, unless
required more frequently by the Director, a report indicating the nature and
concentration of prohibited or regulated substances in the effluent which are
limited by the pretreatment standards hereof.
         B.   In addition, this report shall include a record of all measured
or estimated average and maximum daily flows during the reporting period. Flows
shall be reported on the basis of actual measurement, provided however, where
cost or feasibility considerations justify, the Director may accept reports of
average and maximum flows estimated by verifiable techniques.
         C.   The Director may require the industrial user or discharger to
install flow monitoring facilities, instruments, and recording devices to
enable accurate measurement of flow as determined to be necessary.
         D.   The city, for good cause shown considering such factors as local
high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles or other extenuating factors
may authorize the submission of such reports on months other than those
specified above.
         E.   Reports from dischargers shall be signed by an “authorized
representative of the discharger” and provide written certification stating
whether the applicable pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent
basis, and if not, whether additional operation and maintenance, and/or
additional pretreatment is required for the discharger to meet the applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements.
         F.   All sampling results obtained by the discharger shall be reported
to the Director including any sampling performed more frequently than required.
Dischargers shall notify the Director in writing within 24 hours of receiving
the sampling results, if any sampling results violate applicable pretreatment
limits. Discharger shall repeat the sampling and analysis for those parameters
in violation and resubmit the results within 30 days of becoming aware of the
violation.
         G.   If a violation is detected through sampling and analysis
conducted by the city, in lieu of the industrial user, the city shall perform
the repeat sampling and analysis within 30 days of becoming aware of the
violation, unless it notifies the discharger of the violation and requires the
discharger to perform the repeat sampling and analysis.
         H.   Grab samples are required for pH, hexavalent chromium, free
cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide, and volatile organic
compounds. All other pollutants will be measured by flow-proportional sampling
unless justification for an alternate sampling type, representative of the
discharge is documented in the industrial user file.
         I.   For batch dischargers, multiple grab samples collected during a
24-hour period may be composited prior to the analysis as follows: for
hexavalent chromium, free cyanide, total phenols and sulfides, the samples may
now be composited in the field; for volatile organics and oil and grease, the
samples may be composite in the laboratory. Protocols specified in 40 C.F.R.
Part 136 and appropriate U.S. EPA guidance must be followed.
         J.   The city may authorize an industrial user subject to a
categorical pretreatment standard to forego sampling of a pollutant regulated
by a categorical pretreatment standard if the industrial user has demonstrated
through sampling and other technical factors that the pollutant is neither
present nor expected to be present in the discharge, or is present only at
background levels from intake water and without any increase in the pollutant
due to activities of the industrial user. [See 40 CFR 403.12(e)(2)] This
authorization is subject to the following conditions:
            1.   The waiver may be authorized where a pollutant is determined
to be present solely due to sanitary wastewater discharged from the facility
provided that the sanitary wastewater is not regulated by an applicable
categorical standard and otherwise includes no process wastewater.
            2.   The monitoring waiver is valid only for the duration of the
effective period of the individual wastewater discharge permit, but in no case
longer than five years. The user must submit a new request for the waiver
before the waiver can be granted for each subsequent individual wastewater
discharge permit. See division (b)(2)M. hereof.
            3.   In making a demonstration that a pollutant is not present, the
industrial user must provide data from at least one sampling of the facility's
process wastewater prior to any treatment present at the facility that is
representative of all wastewater from all processes.
            4.   The request for a monitoring waiver must be signed in
accordance with division (k) hereof, and include the certification statement as
set forth in 40 CFR 403.6(a)(2)(ii).
            5.    Non-detectable sample results may be used only as a
demonstration that a pollutant is not present if the EPA approved method from
40 CFR Part 136 with the lowest minimum detection level for that pollutant was
used in the analysis.
            6.   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the Director must be
included as a condition in the user's permit. The reasons supporting the waiver
and any information submitted by the user in its request for the waiver must be
maintained by the Director for three years after expiration of the waiver.
            7.   Upon approval of the monitoring waiver and revision of the
user's permit by the Director, the industrial user must certify on each report
with the statement in 40 CFR 403.6(a)(2)(ii), that there has been no increase
in the pollutant in its wastestream due to activities of the industrial user.
            8.   In the event that a waived pollutant is found to be present or
is expected to be present because of changes that occur in the user's
operations, the user must immediately: Comply with the monitoring requirements
of this section, or other more frequent monitoring requirements imposed by the
Director, and notify the Director.
            9.   This provision does not supersede certification processes and
requirements established in categorical pretreatment standards, except as
otherwise specified in the categorical pretreatment standard.
         K.   The city may reduce the requirement for periodic compliance
reports [this section (40 CFR 403.12(e)(1))] to a requirement to report no less
frequently than once a year, unless required more frequently in the
pretreatment standard or by the EPA/state, where the industrial user's total
categorical wastewater flow does not exceed any of the following:
            1.   Greater than 0.01 percent of the POTW's design dry-weather
hydraulic capacity or 5,000 gallons per day, whichever is smaller, as measured
by a continuous effluent flow monitoring device unless the industrial user
discharges in batches;
            2.   Greater than 0.01 percent of the design dry-weather organic
treatment capacity of the POTW; and
            3.   Greater than 0.01 percent of the maximum allowable headworks
loading for any pollutant regulated by the applicable categorical pretreatment
standard for which approved local limits were developed. [Note: For example, if
the POTW's maximum allowable headworks loading for copper is five pounds, then
0.01 percent would be 0.0005 pounds; the POTW would need to do this calculation
for each pollutant for which it has approved local limits.]
            Reduced reporting is not available to industrial users that have in
the last two years been in significant noncompliance, as defined in § 943.09.
In addition, reduced reporting is not available to an industrial user with
daily flow rates, production levels, or pollutant levels that vary so
significantly that, in the opinion of the Director, decreasing the reporting
requirement for this industrial user would result in data that are not
representative of conditions occurring during the reporting period.
      (4)   Reporting requirements for dischargers not subject to categorical
pretreatment standards. The Director shall require appropriate reporting from
those dischargers with discharges that are not subject to categorical
pretreatment standards.
   (d)   Monitoring facilities.
      (1)   Each discharger shall provide and operate at the discharger’s own
expense, a monitoring location to allow inspections, sampling and flow
measurement of each sewer discharge to the city. Each monitoring location shall
be situated on the discharger’s premises, except where such a location would be
impractical or cause undue hardship on the discharger, the city may concur with
the facility being constructed in the public street or sidewalk area providing
that the facility is located so that it shall not be obstructed by landscaping
or parked vehicles.
      (2)   There should be ample room in or near such sampling facility to
allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The structure
shall be maintained at all times in a safe and accessible condition at the
expense of the discharger.
      (3)   All monitoring facilities shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within 120 days of receipt of building permit
by discharger.
   (e)   Inspection and sampling.
      (1)   The discharger shall allow the Director or his authorized agent(s)
to enter upon the premises of the discharger at all reasonable hours, for the
purposes of inspection, sampling or records examination. The city shall have
the right to set up on the discharger’s property such devices as are necessary
to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering
operations.
      (2)   Where a discharger has security measures in force which would
require proper identification and clearance before entry into their premises,
the discharger shall make necessary arrangements with their security guards so
that upon presentation of suitable identification, authorized personnel from
the city shall be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of
performing their specific responsibilities.
   (f)   Pretreatment. Industrial dischargers shall provide necessary
wastewater treatment as required to comply with this chapter and shall achieve
compliance with all federal categorical pretreatment standards within the time
limitations as specified by the federal pretreatment regulations. Any
facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable to the city
shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the discharger’s expense.
Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures
shall be submitted to the city for review, and shall be acceptable to the city
before construction of the facility. The review of such plans and operating
procedures shall in no way relieve the discharger from the responsibility of
modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the
city under the provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent changes in the
pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be
acceptable to the city prior to the discharger’s initiation of the changes.
   (g)   Confidential information. Information and data furnished to the city
with respect to the nature and frequency of discharge shall be available to the
public or other governmental agency without restriction unless the discharger
requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city that the
release of such information would divulge information, processes or methods of
production entitled to protection as trade secrets or proprietary information
of the discharger. Wastewater constituents and characteristics shall not be
recognized as confidential information. Information accepted by the city as
confidential shall not be transmitted to any governmental agency or to the
general public by the city until and unless a ten-day notification is given to
the discharger.
   (h)   Reporting requirements for city.
      (1)   The city shall forward pertinent information regarding changes in
the National Pretreatment Categorical Standards to industries affected.
      (2)   Industry shall also be adequately advised of changes to the city’s
Municipal Pretreatment Ordinance to permit industry compliance as outlined in
division (b)(3) hereof.
   (i)   Notification of changed discharge. All dischargers shall promptly
notify the Director in advance of any substantial change in the volume or
character of pollutants in their discharge, including the listed or
characteristic hazardous wastes for which the discharger has submitted initial
notification under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(p).
      (1)   Each user must notify the Director of any significant changes to
the user's operations or system which might alter the nature, quality, or
volume of its wastewater at least 14 days before the change.
         A.   The Director may require the user to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under this section.
         B.   The Director may issue an individual wastewater discharge permit
or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under this section in
response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   (j)   Testing procedures. All sampling and analyses required for baseline
monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports and periodic compliance reports
shall be performed in accordance with 40 C.F.R. Part 136 methodology.
   (k)   Signatory. All reports required under this section shall include the
certification statement as set forth in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(2)(ii) and shall
be signed by an authorized representative.
   (l)   Reports of potential problems.
      (1)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, a slug discharge or slug load, that might cause
potential problems for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and
notify the Director of the incident. This notification shall include the
location of the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known,
and corrective actions taken by the user.
      (2)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the Director, submit a detailed written report describing the cause
(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which might be incurred as a result
of damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
      (3)   Contact information of who to call in the event of a discharge
described in division (l)(1) above shall be provided to employees who could
cause such a discharge to occur. Employees should also be advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
      (4)   Significant industrial users are required to notify the Director
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for a slug
discharge.
(Ord. 93-17, passed 2-22-1993; Ord. 2012-63, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 2015-22,
passed 2-23-2015; Ord. 2019-110, passed 9-23-2019)
§ 949.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   Emergency suspension of service and discharge permits. The city may
for good cause shown suspend wastewater treatment service and/or a wastewater
discharge permit to a discharger when it appears to the city that an actual or
threatened discharge presents an imminent or substantial danger to the health
or welfare of persons, substantial danger to the environment, interference with
the operation of the POTW or violation of any pretreatment limits imposed by
this chapter. Any discharger notified of the suspension of the city’s
wastewater treatment service shall, within a reasonable period of time as
determined by the city, cease all discharges. In the event of failure of the
discharger to comply voluntarily with the suspension order within the specified
time, the city shall commence judicial proceedings immediately thereafter to
compel the discharger’s compliance with such order.
   (b)   Revocation of permit. The city may terminate wastewater treatment
service and/or a wastewater discharge permit for any discharger who fails to:
      (1)   Factually report the wastewater constituents and characteristics of
its discharge;
      (2)   Report significant changes in wastewater constituents or character-
istics; or
      (3)   Permit reasonable access to the discharger’s premises by
representa-tives of the city for the purpose of inspection or monitoring; or
who violates the conditions of this chapter, or any final judicial order
entered with respect thereto.
   (c)   Notification of violation; administrative adjustment. Whenever the
city finds that any discharger has engaged in conduct which justifies
termination of wastewater treatment service, pursuant to division (a) or (b)
hereof, the city shall serve or cause to be served upon such discharger, a
written notice either personally, or by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, stating the nature of the alleged violation. Within 30 days
of the date of receipt of the notice, the discharger shall respond in writing
to the city, advising of its position with respect to the allegations. Within
ten days of the response of the discharger, the parties shall meet to ascertain
the veracity of the allegations and, where necessary, establish a plan for the
satisfactory correction thereof.
   (d)   Show cause hearing.
      (1)   The city may order any industrial discharger who causes or allows
an unauthorized discharge to enter the POTW to show cause before Council why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. A notice shall be served
on the industrial discharger specifying the time and place of a hearing to be
held by Council regarding the violation, the reasons why the action is to be
taken, the proposed enforcement action, and directing the industrial discharger
to show cause before Council why the proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or
certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing.
Service may be made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
      (2)   Council may itself conduct the hearing and take the evidence, or
may designate any of its members or any officer or employee of the city to:
         A.   Issue in the name of Council notices of hearings requesting the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant
to any matter involved in such hearings;
         B.   Take the evidence;
         C.   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to Council for
action thereon.
      (3)   At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony taken shall
be under oath and the hearing shall be recorded in the same manner as all
public meetings of Council. Any person requesting a transcript of such hearing
shall pay the cost thereof.
      (4)   After Council has reviewed the evidence, and within 30 days of the
date of the hearing, it may issue an order to the industrial discharger
responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specified time
period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities,
devices or other related appurtenances shall have been installed or existing
treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances are properly
operated. Further orders and directives as are necessary and appropriate may be
issued.
   (e)   Judicial proceedings. Following the entry of any order by the city
with respect to the conduct of a discharger contrary to the provisions of this
chapter, the Law Director for the city may, following the authorization of such
action by the city, commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable
relief in the appropriate local court.
   (f)   Enforcement actions; annual publication. At least annually, the
Director shall publish a list of all industrial users which at any time during
the previous 12 months were in significant noncompliance with applicable
pretreatment requirements. For the purposes of this provision, an industrial
user is in significant noncompliance if its violations meet one or more of the
following criteria:
      (1)   CHRONIC VIOLATIONS OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE LIMITS, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all of the measurements for the same pollutant
parameter taken during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits as defined
in this chapter;
      (2)   TECHNICAL REVIEW CRITERIA (TRC) VIOLATIONS, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits,
as defined by this chapter multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD,
TSS, fats, oil and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(1) (daily maximum, long-term average,
instantaneous limit, or narrative standard) the POTW has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through, including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public;
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the POTW’s
exercise of emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 45 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports,
and reports on adherence to compliance schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation(s) which the POTW determines will adversely
affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
   (g)   Right of appeal. Any discharger or any interested party subject to or
affected by an order or decision of the Director or the city based on the
provisions of this chapter may appeal such order or decision within 20 days of
such order or decision by filing with the Director a written notice of appeal
specifying the grounds upon which the appeal is being taken. Such appeal shall
be heard by Council no sooner than ten days after its filing at the next
regularly scheduled Council meeting. Each appeal shall be accompanied by the
same fee as required to file an appeal with the Zoning, Housing and Building
Appeals Board.
   (h)   Operation upsets.
      (1)   Any discharger who experiences an upset in operations which places
the discharger in a temporary state of noncompliance with this chapter shall
inform the Director thereof within 24 hours of first awareness of the
commencement of the upset. Where such information is given orally, a written
follow-up report thereof shall be filed by the discharger with the city within
five days. The report shall specify:
         A.   Description of the upset, the cause thereof, and the upset’s
impact on a discharger’s compliance status;
         B.   Duration of noncompliance, including exact dates and times of
noncompliance and, if the noncompliance continues, the time by which compliance
is reasonably expected to occur; and
         C.   All steps taken or to be taken to reduce, eliminate and prevent
recurrence of such upset or other conditions of noncompliance.
      (2)   A documented and verified bonafide operating upset shall be an
affirmative defense to any enforcement action brought by the city against a
discharger for any noncompliance with this chapter which arises out of
violations alleged to have occurred during the period of the upset.
   (i)   Schedule of compliances.
      (1)   Where additional pretreatment and/or operation and maintenance
activities shall be required to comply with this chapter, the city may require
as a binding and enforceable agreement a declaration of the shortest schedule
by which the discharger will provide such additional pretreatment and/or
implementation of additional operational and maintenance activities. The
completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date
established for the applicable categorical pretreatment standard.
      (2)   The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
         A.   The schedule shall contain completion dates for the commencement
and completion of major events leading to the construction and operation of
additional pretreatment required for the discharger to comply with the
requirements of this chapter including, but not limited to, dates relating to
hiring an engineer, hiring other appropriate personnel, completing preliminary
plans, completing final plans, executing contracts for major components,
commencing construction, completing construction, and all other acts necessary
to achieve compliance with this chapter.
         B.   Under no circumstances shall the Director permit a time increment
for any single step directed toward compliance which exceeds nine months.
         C.   Not later than 14 days following each completion date in the
schedule and the final date for compliance, the discharger shall submit a
progress report to the Director, including no less than a statement as to
whether or not it complied with the increment of progress represented by that
completion date and, if not, the date on which it expects to comply with this
increment of progress, the reason for delay, and the steps being taken by the
discharger to return the construction to the approved schedule. In no event
shall more than nine months elapse between such progress reports to the
Director.
(Ord. 93-17, passed 2-22-1993; Ord. 2012-63, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 2015-22,
passed 2-23-2015)
§ 949.07 RESERVED
§ 949.08 RECORDS RETENTION.
   All dischargers subject to this chapter shall retain and preserve for no
less than three years any records, books, documents, memoranda, reports,
correspondence and any and all summaries thereof relating to monitoring,
sampling and chemical analyses made by or in behalf of a discharger in
connection with its discharge and documentation associated with best management
practices established under §
949.03(b)(5). All records which pertain to matters which are the subject of
administrative adjustment or any other enforcement or litigation activities
brought by the city pursuant hereto shall be retained and preserved by the
discharger until all enforcement activities have concluded and all periods of
limitation with respect to any and all appeals have expired.
(Ord. 93-17, passed 2-22-1993; Ord. 2012-63, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 2015-22,
passed 2-23-2015)
§ 949.09 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (a)   Removal credits. The city reserves the right to initiate a program of
removal credits as part of this chapter to reflect the POTW’s ability to remove
pollutants in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.7.
   (b)   Net/gross calculations. The city may reserve the right to adjust
categorical pretreatment standards to reflect the presence of pollutants in the
discharger’s intake water, in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15.
(Ord. 93-17, passed 2-22-1993; Ord. 2012-63, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 2015-22,
passed 2-23-2015)
§ 949.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision, paragraph, word or section of this chapter is invalidated
by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions, paragraphs,
words and sections shall not be affected and shall continue in full force and
effect.
(Ord. 93-17, passed 2-22-1993; Ord. 2012-63, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 2015-22,
passed 2-23-2015)
§ 949.11 CONFLICT.
   All other ordinances and/or parts of other ordinances inconsistent or
conflicting with any part of this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of
such inconsistency or conflict.
(Ord. 93-17, passed 2-22-1993; Ord. 2012-63, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 2015-22,
passed 2-23-2015)
§ 949.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Civil penalties. Any discharger who is found to have violated any
provision of this chapter, their wastewater discharge permit, or any order of
the city or court of competent jurisdiction, shall be subject to the imposition
of a civil penalty of up to $1,000 per violation. Each day on which a violation
occurs or continues shall be deemed a separate and distinct violation. In
addition to the penalties provided herein, the city may recover reasonable
attorney’s fees, court costs, court reporter’s fees and other expenses of
litigation by appropriate suit at law against the discharger.
   (b)   Criminal penalties. Any person, or persons, which intentionally or
willfully violate any provision of this chapter, their wastewater discharge
permit, or any order of the city or court of competent jurisdiction, or any
person or persons that allow a violation to continue after becoming aware of
such violation shall be punishable, upon conviction, by a criminal penalty of
up to $1,000 per day per violation and not more than six months in jail.
   (c)   Recovery of costs incurred by the authority. Any discharger violating
any of the provisions of this chapter, the wastewater discharge permit, or who
discharges or causes a discharge producing a deposit or obstruction or causes
damage to or impairs the city’s POTW shall be liable to the city for any
expense, loss or damage caused by such violation or discharge. The city shall
bill the discharger for the costs incurred by the city for any cleaning, repair
or replacement work caused by the violation or discharge. Refusal to pay the
assessed costs shall constitute a violation of this chapter or the wastewater
discharge permit enforceable under the provisions of §
949.06.
   (d)   Falsifying information. Any person who knowingly makes any false
statement, representation or certification in any application, record, report,
plan or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this
chapter or the wastewater discharge permit, or who falsifies, tampers with or
knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this chapter or the wastewater discharge permit shall be deemed guilty of a
first degree misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 and/or
by imprisonment for not more than six months.
   (e)   Injunctive relief. Whenever an industrial user has violated or
continues to violate this chapter, its wastewater discharge permit, or any
order of the city or court of competent jurisdiction, the city may petition the
court for the issuance of a preliminary or permanent injunction or both, as may
be appropriate, to restrain or compel activities on the part of the industrial
user.
(Ord. 93-77, passed 7-12-1993; Ord. 2012-63, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 2015-22,
passed 2-23-2015)
APPENDIX A: PRIORITY POLLUTANTS
1.   asbestos (fibrous)
2.   cyanide (total)
3.   antimony (total)
4.   arsenic (total)
5.   beryllium (total)
6.   cadmium (total)
7.   chromium (total)
8.   copper (total)
9.   lead (total)
10.  mercury (total)
11.  nickel (total)
12.  selenium (total)
13.  silver (total)
14.  thallium (total)
15.  zinc (total)
16.  acenaphthene
17.  acenaphthylene
18.  acrolein
19.  acrylonitrile
20.  aldrin
21.  anthracene
22.  benzene
23.  benzidine
24.  benzo (a)anthracene
25.  benzo (a)pryene
26.  3,4-benzo (b) fluoranthene
27.  benzo (g,h,i)perylene
28.  benzo (k)fluoranthene
29.  a-BHC (alpha)
30.  b-BHC (beta)
31.  d-BHC (delta)
32.  g-BHC (gamma)
33.  bis(2-chloroethyl)ether
34.  bis(2-chloroethoxy)methane
35.  bis(2-chloroisopropyl)ether
36.  bis(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate
37.  bromoformm
38.  bromomethane (methyl bromide)
39.  4-bromophenylphenyl ether
40.  butylbenzyl phthalate
41.  carbon tetrachloride
42.  chlordane
43.  chlorobenzene
44.  chloroethane
45.  2-chloroethylvinyl ether
46.  chloroform
47.  chloromethane (methyl chloride)
48.  2-chloronaphtalene
49.  2-chlorophenol
50.  4-chlorophenylphenyl ether
51.  chrysene
52.  4,4'-DDD
53.  4,4'-DDE
54.  4,4'-DDT
55.  dibenzo(a,h)anthracene
56.  dichlorobromomethane
57.  1,2-dichlorobenzene
58.  1,3-dichlorobenzene
59.  1,4-dichlorobenzene
60.  3,3-dichlorobenzidine
61.  dichlorodibromomethane
62.  1,1-dichloroethylene
63.  1,2-dichloroethane
64.  1,1-dichloroethene
65.  trans-1,2-dichloroethene
66.  2,4-dichlorophenol
67.  1,2-dichloropropane
68.  (cis&trans)1,3-dichloropropene
69.  dieldrin
70.  diethyl phthalate
71.  2,4-dimethylphenol
72.  diemethyl phthalate
73.  di-n-butyl phthalate
74.  di-n-octyl phthalate
75.  4,6-dinitro-o-cresol
76.  2,4-dinitrophenol
77.  2,4-dinitrotoluene
78.  2,6-dinitrotoluene
79.  1,2-diphenylhydrazine
80.  endosulfan I
81.  endosulfan II
82.  endosulfan sulfate
83.  endrin
84.  endrin aldehyde
85.  ethylbenzene
86.  fluoranthene
87.  fluorene
88.  heptachlor
89.  heptachlor epoxide
90.  hexachlorobenzene
91.  hexachlorobutadiene
92.  hexachlorocyclopentadiene
93.  hexachloroethane
94.  indeno(l,2,3-cd)pyrene
95.  isophorone
96.  methylene chloride
97.  naphthalene
98.  nitrobenzene
99.  nitrophenol
100. 4-nitrophenol
101. n-nitrosodimethylamine
102. n-nitrosodi-n-propylamine
103. n-nitrosodiphenylamine
104. PCB-1016
105. PCB-1221
106. PCB-1232
107. PCB-1242
108. PCB-1248
109. PCB-1254
110. PCB-1260
111. pentachlorophenol
112. perachlorometa cresol
113. phenanthrene
114. phenol
115. pyrene
116. 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodi-benzo-p-dio xin
117. 1,1,2,2,-tetrachloroethane
118. tetrachloroethylene
119. toluene
120. toxaphene
121. 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene
122. 1,1,1-trichloroethane
123. 1,1,2-trichloroethane
124. trichloroethylene
125. 2,4,6-trichlorophenol
126. vinyl chloride
 
(Ord. 93-17, passed 2-22-1993; Ord. 2012-63, passed 9-10-2012; Ord. 2015-22,
passed 2-23-2015)
CHAPTER 951: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT UTILITY
Section
951.01   Establishment
951.02   Definitions
951.03   Stormwater user fee
951.04   Billing
951.05   Schedule of rates
951.06   Termination of service for nonpayment
951.07   City Manager may make rules and regulations
951.08   Appeal
§ 951.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The City Stormwater Management Utility is hereby established.
(Ord. 2001-61, passed 4-23-2001)
§ 951.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply.
Words used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural, the
singular; words used in the present tense shall include the future tense. The
word SHALL is mandatory and not discretionary. The word MAY is permissive.
Words not defined herein shall be construed to have the meaning given by common
and ordinary use as defined in the latest edition of Webster’s Dictionary.
   BILLING PERIOD. The service period identified on the utility bill. Each
account shall be billed monthly or semi-annually in arrears of the service
period. A developed property that receives a city water or other utility
service shall be billed monthly in arrears of the service. A developed property
that does not receive city water or other utility service may be billed semi-
annually in arrears of the service.
   BONDS. Revenue bonds, notes, loans or any other debt obligations issued or
incurred to finance the costs of construction.
   CALENDAR YEAR. The 12-month period commencing on January 1 of any year.
   COSTS OF CONSTRUCTION. Costs reasonably incurred in connection with
providing capital improvements to the system or any portion thereof, including,
but not limited to, the costs of:
      (1)   Acquisition of all property, real or personal, and all interests in
connection therewith including all rights-of-way and easements therefor;
      (2)   Physical construction, installation and testing, including the
costs of labor, services materials, supplies and construction services used in
connection therewith;
      (3)   Architectural, engineering, inspection, legal and other
professional services;
      (4)   Insurance premiums taken out and maintained during construction, to
the extent not paid for by a contractor for construction and installation;
      (5)   Any taxes or other charges which become due during construction;
      (6)   Expenses incurred by the city or on its behalf with its approval in
seeking to enforce any remedy against any contractor;
      (7)   Principal of and interest of any bonds; and
      (8)   Miscellaneous expenses incidental thereto.
   DEBT SERVICE. With respect to any particular calendar year and any
particular series of bonds, an amount equal to the sum of:
      (1)   All interest payable on the bonds during the calendar year; plus
      (2)   Any principal installments of the bonds during the calendar year.
   DEVELOPED PROPERTY. Real property other than undisturbed property.
   DWELLING UNIT. A singular unit or apartment providing complete, independent
living facilities for one or more persons including permanent provisions for
living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT or ERU. The statistical average horizontal
impervious area of all residential developed property per dwelling unit located
within the city and as established by City Council.
   ERU RATE. A stormwater user fee charged on each ERU as established by City
Council.
   EXEMPT PROPERTY. Public rights-of-way, public streets, public alleys and
public sidewalks.
   EXTENSION AND REPLACEMENT. Costs of extensions, additions and capital
improvements to, or the removal and replacement of capital assets of, or
purchasing and installing new equipment for, the system or land acquisitions
for the system and any related costs thereto, or paying extraordinary
maintenance and repair, including the costs of construction, or any other
expenses which are not costs of operation and maintenance or debt service.
   IMPERVIOUS AREA. The number of square feet of hard surfaced areas which
either prevent or retard the entry of water into soil mantle, as it entered
under natural conditions as undisturbed property, and/or causes water to run
off the surface in greater quantities or at an increased rate of flow from that
present under natural conditions as undisturbed property, including, but not
limited to, roofs, roof extensions, patios, porches, driveway, sidewalks,
pavement and athletic courts.
   NONRESIDENTIAL DEVELOPED PROPERTY. Developed property that is not utilized
for dwelling units with the city.
   OPERATING BUDGET. The annual operating budget adopted by the city for the
succeeding calendar year.
   OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE. The current expenses, paid or accrued, of
operation, maintenance and current repair of the system as calculated in
accordance with sound accounting practice, and includes, without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, insurance premiums, administrative expenses,
labor, executive compensation and cost of materials and supplies used for
current operations, and charges for the accumulation of appropriate reserves
for current expenses not annually incurred, but which are such as may
reasonably be expected to be incurred in accordance with the sound accounting
practice.
   REVENUES. All rates, fees, assessments, rentals or other charges or other
income received by the Stormwater User Fee Fund, in connection with the
management and operation of the system, including amounts received from the
investment of deposit of moneys in any fund or account and any amounts
contributed by the city, all as calculated in accordance with sound accounting
practice.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM or SYSTEM. The existing stormwater management
of the city and all improvements thereto which by this chapter are constituted
as the property and responsibility of the city, to be operated as an enterprise
fund to, among other things, conserve water, control discharges necessitated by
rainfall events, incorporate methods to collect, convey, store, absorb,
inhibit, treat, use or reuse water to prevent or reduce flooding, over-
drainage, environmental degradation and water pollution or otherwise affect the
quality and quantity of discharge from the system.
   STORMWATER USER FEE. A fee authorized by ordinances established to pay
operations and maintenance, extension and replacement and debt service.
   STORMWATER USE FEE FUND. The enterprise fund created by this chapter to
operate, maintain and improve the system and for other purposes as stated in
this chapter.
   UNDISTURBED PROPERTY. Real property that has not been altered from its
natural state by dredging, filling, removal of trees and vegetation, or other
activities which have disturbed or altered the topography or soils on the
property.
   USER FEE DISTRICT. The area or property within the corporate limits of the
city.
   VACANT IMPROVED PROPERTY. Unoccupied developed property that contains
impervious area.
(Ord. 2001-61, passed 4-23-2001)
§ 951.03 STORMWATER USER FEE.
   Subject to the provisions of this chapter, each and every residential
developed property, nonresidential developed property and vacant improved
property, other than exempt property, within the corporate limits of the city,
and the owners and non-owner users thereof, shall have imposed upon them a
stormwater user fee. In the event the owner and non-owner users of a particular
property are not the same, the liability for each the owner and non-owner user
for the user fee attributable to that property shall be joint and several. The
stormwater user fee shall be a monthly or a regular interval service charge and
shall be determined by the provisions of this chapter and the ERU and ERU rate
which shall be established and changed from time to time by City Council.
(Ord. 2001-61, passed 4-23-2001)
§ 951.04 BILLING.
   The stormwater user fee for metered property shall be billed and collected
monthly with the monthly city’s services utility bill for those properties
within the corporate limits of the city and utilizing the city’s utilities.
These fees shall be billed and collected separately as stormwater user fees.
Properties not utilizing the existing city’s utilities may be billed six months
in arrears. All bills for stormwater user fees shall be rendered monthly or at
a regular interval by the Utility Billing Department. The stormwater user fee
for those properties utilizing city utilities is part of a consolidated
statement for utility customers, which is generally paid by a single payment.
In the event that a partial payment is received, the payment shall be applied
in accordance with the city rules and regulations developed by the City
Manager.
(Ord. 2001-61, passed 4-23-2001)
§ 951.05 SCHEDULE OF RATES.
   There is hereby established the following uniform schedule of rates for the
services and use of facilities of the stormwater management system by the
owner, tenant or occupant of the premises using the services and facilities of
the system.
   (a)   The City Council, upon recommendation of the City Manager, shall, by
resolution, establish reasonable rates for stormwater management systems for
each residential dwelling unit; each residential dwelling unit shall be billed
a flat fee established by the City Council. An equivalent residential unit is
hereby defined as the statistical average horizontal impervious area of
residential units in the city.
   (b)   Parcels which are undeveloped shall be assessed a stormwater user fee.
The bill shall be determined by dividing the total land area of the property,
in square feet, by the area of an equivalent residential unit times a
correction factor. The correction factor may be based on the relative volume of
runoff from an undeveloped property and that of a typical single-family
residence, under typical hydrologic conditions.
   (c)   For all residential and nonresidential properties, that is enterprise,
business establishment, building or other occupancy not covered by divisions
(a) and (b) of this section, the rate shall be computed based on the total
impervious area of the property divided by the average impervious area of an
equivalent residential unit times the rate established for an equivalent
residential unit. The billing amount shall be updated by the Engineering
Department based on any additions to the impervious areas as approved through
the building permit process.
(Ord. 2001-61, passed 4-23-2001)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 951.06 TERMINATION OF SERVICE FOR NONPAYMENT.
   For each charge or rental levied by or pursuant to this chapter, if the same
is not paid within 30 days after it is due and payable, the municipality is
authorized to terminate city water or other utility service until the charge or
rental is paid. In addition to the payment of the charge or rental, a charge to
reinstate the service shall be established and as set forth in the fee schedule
in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the charge shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time, shall be made.
(Ord. 2001-61, passed 4-23-2001)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 951.07 CITY MANAGER MAY MAKE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Manager may make and enforce the rules and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management and
protection of the municipal stormwater system, for the construction and use of
the stormwater system and facilities, for connections to the stormwater system
and for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of charges or
rentals provided the rules and regulations are not in conflict with any
municipal ordinance. No person shall violate or fail to comply with any rule or
regulation.
(Ord. 2001-61, passed 4-23-2001)
§ 951.08 APPEAL.
   Any person disagreeing with the calculation of the stormwater drainage fee,
as provided in this chapter, may appeal the determination to the City Manager,
or his or her designee. Any appeal must be filed in writing and shall include a
survey, showing dwelling units, total property area, impervious area or
nonresidential developed area, drainage structures, drainage patterns and any
features that contain/retain/detain storm runoff on their own property, and
diminish the quantity of stormwater handled by the city, as appropriate. The
Manager may request additional information from the appealing party. Based upon
the information provided by the utility and appealing party, the Manager shall
notify the parties, in writing, of the Manger’s decision. If still
dissatisfied, a party may request, in writing, within 30 days a review by the
Stormwater Appeals Board. The request must cite specific error by the Manager
and the calculation, which the party feels, is correct. The Board shall review
the record presented and enter a written decision as soon as practical. The
Board may request additional information from either party.
(Ord. 2001-61, passed 4-23-2001)
***** TITLE SEVEN: OTHER PUBLIC SERVICES *****
CHAPTER 961: RUBBISH AND WASTE COLLECTION
Section
961.01   Regulations
961.02   Curbside recycling regulations adopted
961.03   Reserved
961.04   Charges and billing
Cross-reference:
   Littering, see §
521.08
   Vehicle loads dropping, sifting, leaking, see §
339.08
Statutory reference:
   Collection and disposal of garbage, see R.C. §§ 715.43, 717.01
§ 961.01 REGULATIONS.
   The term WASTE MATERIAL shall include all municipal solid waste originating
from the use of property situated only within the corporate limits of the city,
and more specifically being identified in the following regulations which also
serve as the waste collection regulations for the city.
   (a)   Residential collection of waste material shall be provided once each
week on announced days, for which containers are placed at the curb or edge of
the street right-of-way.
   (b)   Wastes from business establishments shall be collected twice a week on
announced days. All items shall be placed at the curb or edge of street
pavement unless large containers are used, for which service the business shall
contract with the hauler on a private basis.
   (c)   All containers shall be either metal or plastic, with handles and
lids, or sealed plastic bags of substantial construction.
   (d)   Containers and contents shall be limited to a maximum of 75 pounds and
a maximum of 30 gallons capacity, except special industrial containers.
   (e)   All garbage shall be drained and wrapped. Separation of garbage, is
not required. All garbage shall be placed in containers which shall be
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (f)   Wooden boxes and paper boxes shall be broken down and tied in small
bundles. Magazines not placed in cans shall be tied in small bundles or placed
in boxes.
   (g)   Hot ashes shall not be accepted.
   (h)   Collection from businesses shall be limited to a maximum of ten
containers of that size identified in division (d) hereof.
   (i)   Everything for collections shall be placed at the curb no later than
5:00 a.m. on the day of collection. There shall be no return calls for waste
placed at the curb after 5:00 a.m.
   (j)   No special pick-ups shall be made under city responsibility.
   (k)   Collection shall be made on all holidays except Christmas Day and New
Year’s Day. Collection for these days shall be made on the following week day.
   (l)   Property owners shall be responsible for the orderly placement and
containment of all waste placed at the curb or edge of road. The containers may
not be placed at the curb or edge of road more than 24 hours prior to the
scheduled pickup.
   (m)   All empty containers shall be removed from the curb or edge of road no
later than dusk of the day of pickup.
   (n)   All appliances and furniture, including, but not limited to,
refrigerators, dishwashers, washers, dryers, sofas, chairs and mattresses.
Prior to acceptance of any load containing CFC and/or HCFC equipment such as
refrigerators, freezers, air conditioners, dehumidifiers, heat pumps, water
coolers, ice machines and beverage machines, documentation shall be provided by
the generator giving assurance that CFCs and/or HCFCs have been recovered by a
certified technician.
   (o)   All brush in small piles or tied in bundles not more than four feet in
length.
   (p)   Garbage is defined as organic waste of animal, fish, fruit or
vegetable matter arising from or attendant to the storage, dealing in,
preparation or cooking of food for human consumption.
   (q)   If property owners want to dispose of recyclable materials through the
weekly waste collection program, they are required to place them in their
recycling bin as outlined in §
961.02. Those items that are accepted by the contractor as recyclable materials
to be placed in the bin and collected will include, but not be limited to,
newspapers, glass bottles and jars, aluminum and bi-metal beverage cans, tin
food cans and all plastic #1 and #2 bottles and jars.
   (r)   Whole waste tires shall not be accepted effective January 1, 1993 per
State EPA regulations.
   (s)   Lead acid batteries shall not be accepted effective January 1, 1993
per State EPA regulations.
   (t)   Contractor shall remove all materials and contents set out by
residents, avoid spilling waste material and clean up the collection area if
the waste is spilled.
   (u)   Special carry-out services for the disabled, elderly, or heretofore
provided shall be acknowledged and acted upon by the contractor as directed by
the City Manager or his or her representative.
(Ord. 93-31, passed 3-22-1993)
§ 961.02 CURBSIDE RECYCLING REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The following are hereby adopted as the curbside recycling regulations for
the city.
   (a)   Residential collection of recyclable materials shall be provided once
each week on announced days, for which containers are placed at the curb or
edge of the street right-of-way. The announced days of collection shall be the
same as the regularly scheduled trash collection day.
   (b)   The contractor shall provide and distribute each single-family
residence with one, 14-gallon recycling bin. If the bin is lost or stolen, it
is at the contractor’s discretion whether to charge a replacement fee to the
property owner.
   (c)   Recyclable materials to be collected shall include, but not be limited
to, newspapers, glass bottles and jars, aluminum and bi-metal beverage cans,
tin food cans and all plastic #1 and #2 bottles and jars.
   (d)   The contractor shall transport the recovered recyclable materials to a
central processing site and retain responsibility for the brokering of these
materials to their respective markets, thus ensuring 100% of the recyclable
materials shall be recycled. At no time shall recovered materials be disposed
of in a landfill or incinerator.
(Ord. 93-31, passed 3-22-1993)
§ 961.03 RESERVED.
§ 961.04 CHARGES AND BILLING.
   (a)   Charges are hereby established for waste collection, in the city:
      (1)   Each single-family unit. Fees are established as set forth in the
fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fees shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time.
      (2)   Each multi-family unit and for each trailer. Fees are established
as set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fees shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time.
      (3)   Each industrial and commercial establishment. Fees are established
as set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fees shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time. If the total weekly collection from any
establishment is four cans or less, application may be made to the city for a
reduction of charge to the current rate then in effect for single- and multi-
family residential customers. If the average weekly collection is more than ten
cans, dumpsters are required.
(Ord. 00-43, passed 4-10-2000; Ord. 2001-92, passed 5-14-2001; Ord. 2002-63,
passed 4-3-2002; Ord. 2007-65, passed 4-23-2007; 2010-64, passed 5-24-2010;
Ord. 2017-28, passed 2-27-2017)
   (b)   The waste collection charge hereby established shall be shown on the
monthly water bills and shall be collected with the water and sewer charges.
Any residential, industrial or commercial establishment desiring to privately
contract for waste collection may do so provided the City Manager is furnished
proof of agreement with a waste collection service to have the waste removed in
covered trucks at a frequency which is the same as that of the city’s waste
collection.
(Ord. 93-31, passed 3-22-1993)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
CHAPTER 963: PUBLIC PARKS
Section
963.01   Definitions
963.02   Hours open to the public
963.03   Scheduled events and activities
963.04   Vehicles
963.05   Protection of natural and ecological environment
963.06   Animals
963.07   Personal conduct
963.08   Intoxicating liquor; controlled substances
963.09   Power models and toy engine units
963.10   Weapons
963.11   Camping
963.12   Fires
963.13   Commercial activities
963.14   Erecting and attaching signs
963.15   Water activities
963.16   Fireworks and explosives
963.17   Activities prohibited
963.18   Employee exemption
963.19   Ejection from park
963.20   Authority
963.21   Rules for skateboards
963.22   Lou Eves Municipal Pool; rates for daily admissions and annual passes
963.23   Fishing
963.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
Statutory reference:
   Land appropriation for parks, see R.C. §§ 715.21, 719.01
   Playgrounds, see R.C. §§ 755.12 et seq.
   Power to regulate vehicle speed in parks, see R.C. § 4511.07(E)
   Recreation Board, see R.C. §§ 755.14 et seq.
§ 963.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMALS or ANIMAL. Quadrupeds, birds, fish, reptiles, amphibians and
insects.
   BOARD. The Park and Recreation Board as referenced in the Charter §
7.06.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Park District.
   FISH or FISHING. Taking or attempting to take fish by any method, and all
other acts as placing, setting, drawing or using any device commonly used to
take fish whether resulting in the taking or not.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power.
   MOTORBOAT. Any watercraft propelled by any mechanical device, electric motor
or internal combustion engine.
   PARK. Any land or water area owned, leased or otherwise controlled by the
Park District.
   PARK DISTRICT. The City of Mason Park District, which includes Sundin Fields
at Heritage Oak Park, Quinn Park, Meadows Park, Frank Hosea  Woods Park, and
Corwin M. Nixon, Pine Hill Lakes Park, Mason Sports Park, and other parks as
approved by City Council.
   PARK WATERS. Any lake, pond, stream, channel or other body of water, or any
part thereof, whether natural or artificial, located in a park.
   PEACE OFFICER. A Park District employee qualified to enforce the rules and
regulations of the Park District pursuant to R.C. § 1545.13 and every other law
enforcement officer of the city, state or of any political subdivision thereof,
including, but not limited to, state highway patrol officers, sheriffs, deputy
sheriffs, constables and Division of Wildlife game protectors.
   PERSON. Any individual, company, partnership, corporation or association, or
any combination of individuals, or any employee, agent or officer thereof.
   VEHICLE. Everything on wheels.
   WATERCRAFT. Any vessel designed for navigation on water, including, but not
limited to, any rowboat, sailboat or motorboat.
(Ord. 87-125, passed 10-26-1987)
§ 963.02 HOURS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   (a)   All parks of the city shall be open to the public during the daylight
hours.
      (1)   However, the Corwin M. Nixon and Mason Sports Park hours are set as
follows:
 
March through October     6:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
November through February 6:00 a.m. to dusk
 
      (2)   Sundin Fields at Heritage Oak Park hours are set as follows:
 
November 1 to February 29 Daylight hours
March 1 to October 31     Sunday - Thursday Sunrise to 11:00 p.m.
                          Friday - Saturday Sunrise to 12:00 a.m.
 
   (b)   The City Manager’s office may modify the aforesaid opening and closing
hours when, in its discretion, the public interest would be served by the
modification. Any change in the aforesaid hours shall be posted at the park
entrances no later than midnight preceding the day on which they are effective.
(Ord. 89-44, passed 3-27-1989)
§ 963.03 SCHEDULED EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES.
   (a)   Events and activities scheduled by persons or organizations or by the
Department of Parks and Recreation shall have priority to the use of parks and
recreational facilities. Otherwise, parks and recreation facilities are
available for the use of the public on a first come first serve basis.
   (b)   The scheduling of events and activities and space and time, therefore,
at parks and recreational facilities, shall be first approved by the office of
the Director of Parks and Recreation. The Department of Parks and Recreation
has the first priority in scheduling events and activities. The remaining
priority for athletic fields, parks and facilities shall be outlined in the
following policies.
      (1)   Any request in applying for special events and/or activities that
are of a profit, nonprofit or entrepreneurial nature to be held in the city
requires a permit as outlined in the City of Mason Special Event Policy. All
events and programs in the parks require a permit, even if fees are not
charged.
      (2)   Any request in applying for athletic fields and/or athletic
complexes requires a permit as outlined in the City of Mason Athletic Complex
Usage Policy. All requests for athletic fields require a proposal per the
policy.
      (3)   The fee shall be as established and set forth in the fee schedule
in Part One, Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances.
   (c)   An organization utilizing a park recreational facility for a reserved
or scheduled function shall, as a condition of the reservation and scheduling,
be responsible for providing adequate control and supervision over members and
guests utilizing the park or recreational facility. Organizations scheduling
and reserving recreational facilities are thereby also ensuring that the park
or recreational facility used is not damaged by the use of their members and
guests at the function. Upon notice and hearing before the City Manager or a
hearing officer designated by him or her, if it is determined that, by the
exercise of adequate control and supervision, the organization could have
prevented the violation or damage or substantially decreased the likelihood of
same from occurring, the City Manager or hearing officer may thereafter refuse
to schedule or reserve a park or recreational facility for the organization for
a maximum period of 18 months.
(Ord. 87-125, passed 10-26-1987)
§ 963.04 VEHICLES.
   (a)   Driving in permitted areas. No person shall operate a vehicle in a
park except on and within the paths and roads provided for the vehicles.
   (b)   Barricades. No person in a park shall drive around, cause to be moved,
or damage any barricade or barrier so placed to temporarily or permanently
close a road to traffic.
   (c)   Speed. No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater than
ten miles per hour in a park or recreational facility.
   (d)   Parking. No person shall park any vehicle in a park except in places
designated for this purpose.
   (e)   After-hours parking. No person shall leave a vehicle in a park during
the hours when a park is closed.
   (f)   One-way roads. No person shall drive a vehicle in a park on a road or
path in a direction other than that indicated by traffic signs.
   (g)   Trucks. No person shall drive in a park, a truck, tractor or other
vehicle, which is at that time used for the transportation of goods or
materials, over any park road without a permit from the Director.
   (h)   Load limits. No person shall operate, move, park or locate a vehicle,
or combination of vehicles, having a gross load capacity in excess of three-
fourths of a ton, in a park or recreational facility unless the prior approval
of the Department of Parks and Recreation is obtained.
   (i)   Safety. No person shall drive or propel any vehicle along or over any
park road in a reckless manner without due regard for the safety of pedestrians
and drivers and all other occupants of any vehicle.
   (j)   Impounding vehicles. Vehicles in parks in violation of these rules and
regulations shall be removed or caused to be removed by peace officers to a
location, in or outside of the park, where the same may be kept until owners,
or their authorized representatives, obtain an order from the Director or his
or her agents releasing the vehicles to the owners thereof, or their authorized
representatives.
   (k)   Skidding tires. No person shall intentionally accelerate a motor
vehicle in a park causing the rubber tires to mark park roadway surfaces.
   (l)   Use when park closed. No person shall park any motor vehicles or other
means of conveyance, walk or trespass upon any area not secured by a gate
during the hours when a park is closed except by a permit from the Director.
   (m)   Disabled parking. No person who is not disabled or operating a motor
vehicle to transport a disabled person shall stop, stand or park any motor
vehicle at specially designated locations provided for the disabled.
   (n)   Traffic sign and regulation compliance. No person shall drive or
propel any vehicle along or over any park road without complying with all
traffic signs and all posted traffic regulations.
(Ord. 87-125, passed 10-26-1987)
§ 963.05 PROTECTION OF NATURAL AND ECOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT.
   (a)   No person shall injure, deface, disturb or damage in any manner any
part of the park property or part thereof, which is owned, leased or otherwise
controlled by the Park District, nor shall any trees, shrubs, wildflowers or
other plants, animals, fossils or minerals be removed, injured or destroyed.
   (b)   Special exceptions to division (a) hereof may be permitted for
purposes of scientific research, if approved guidelines are followed and
collecting of natural minerals is authorized by written permit of the Director.
   (c)   Exceptions to division (a) hereof could also be made for removal of
non-native (alien or exotic) species by park personnel and for general accepted
land management practices.
   (d)   No person in a park shall install or plant any materials except with a
permit from the Director.
   (e)   No person in a park shall climb or rappel any rock escarpment or other
natural features.
   (f)   When walking or riding a vehicle, horse or other animal on a
designated hiking trail, walking trail or designated recreational area, no
person shall leave the hiking trail, walking trail or designated recreational
area without the permission of the Director.
(Ord. 87-125, passed 10-26-1987)
§ 963.06 ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person in the confines of the park shall hunt, pursue with dogs,
trap, molest, harm, harass, injure or disturb wild animals or take wild birds
or animals, or therein rob or molest any bird nest or take the eggs of any bird
found in the confines of the park.
   (b)   Special exceptions to trapping of wild animals may be permitted for
purposes of scientific research, if approved guidelines are followed, including
use of humane live trapping methods and release of the animals, and the
trapping is authorized by written permit of the Director.
   (c)   Trapping and removal of non-native animals to preserve native wildlife
and habitats may be accomplished by park personnel.
   (d)   No person in a park shall fish in park waters in violation of any sign
or signs prohibiting fishing or a manner thereof.
   (e)   No person in a park shall hunt fish with a bow and arrow.
   (f)   No person in a park shall have in his or her possession or shoot a
crossbow.
   (g)   No person shall ride a horse, mule, donkey, cattle or other animal in
a park without the specific written permit of the Director.
   (h)   No person shall bring into, have or keep in a park any animal
destructive of wildlife, nor shall any person bring into or permit within a
park a domestic dog or a domestic cat unless such is under constant control and
supervision and held on a leash no longer than six feet in length.
   (i)   This section does not assure admittance of park visitors with their
pets to the locations and at times as may conflict with Board of Health
requirements or preservation of public safety and order within a park.
   (j)   No person being the owner or having charge of a dog, cat or other
animal shall permit the dog, cat or other animal to be present in areas
designated or posted as play area within a park or recreational facility.
   (k)   The city shall have the right to impound or destroy a feral or
diseased animal.
(Ord. 87-125, passed 10-26-1987)
§ 963.07 PERSONAL CONDUCT.
   (a)   No person in or adjacent to a park shall conduct himself or herself by
word or by act, in a riotous, disorderly, boisterous, threatening or other
manner so as to disturb the peace and good order of the park.
   (b)   No person shall use any sound amplification device audible more than
20 feet from the device without specific written permission from the Director.
No speakers, amplifiers or similar equipment shall be displayed outside of a
vehicle.
   (c)   No person shall remain within a park who does not abide by conditions
adopted and posted by the Board for the preservation of good order and the
protection of property within the park. No person shall remain within a park
who does not abide by the instructions of a duly authorized peace officer or
agent of the Board, in the lawful performance of their duties. Any person
directed by a peace officer or agent of the Board to leave the park shall do so
promptly and peaceably.
   (d)   No person shall obstruct, resist or be abusive of, or use profanity
to, a park peace officer or agent of the Board in and during the lawful
discharge of his or her duties.
   (e)   No person in a park shall willfully assault or commit bodily injury
upon another or engage in or abet or aid in any fight, quarrel or other
disturbance.
   (f)   No person or groups of persons shall assemble in or adjacent to a park
for any unlawful purpose or in riotous assemblage or with intent to annoy,
harass or inflict property damage or bodily injury upon another person or
persons or inflict damage to a park.
   (g)   No person in a park shall solicit or attempt to solicit another to
engage in an act of sexual perversion or solicit or request another to commit,
perform or engage in any lewd, lascivious, obscene or indecent act or behavior.
   (h)   No person with the intent to do so shall willfully interfere with,
disrupt or prevent the conduct of any recreational program, event or activity
conducted by or having been scheduled through the Department of Parks and
Recreation at a park or recreational facility.
(Ord. 87-125, passed 10-26-1987)
§ 963.08 INTOXICATING LIQUOR; CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (a)   No person in a park shall sell or offer for sale any intoxicating
liquor or alcoholic beverage.
   (b)   No person in a park shall be intoxicated or under the influence of any
intoxicating liquor or alcoholic beverage.
   (c)   No person in a park shall consume, possess or display the presence of
any alcoholic beverage in a park.
   (d)   No person in a park shall possess, sell or offer for sale any type of
narcotic drug, opiate or hallucinogen, or any equipment for administering the
drugs, opiates or hallucinogens.
   (e)   Notwithstanding the above regulations, the city, by motion or
ordinance of City Council, may permit certain group events to sell or offer for
sale intoxicating liquor or alcoholic beverages, subject to specified
conditions and criteria, including, but not limited, to the following:
      (1)   The event is sponsored by a group or organization (the “sponsor”)
that shall be responsible for complying with all conditions imposed by the
city;
      (2)   The sponsor must comply with any and all state statutes regarding
the possession and consumption of alcohol;
      (3)   The event will promote the city as a destination and will provide
recognizable benefits to the city;
      (4)   The sponsor shall be responsible to pay for any police presence at
the event that is deemed necessary and appropriate by the city, as recommended
by the Safety Director;
      (5)   The sponsor participates in any training deemed necessary and
appropriate by the city, as recommended by the Safety Director; and
      (6)   The event is confined to a defined area as determined by the city.
   (f)   Violation of any condition imposed by the city and/or any state
statute governing the possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages shall
result in immediate revocation of the right to sell or offer for sale any
intoxicating liquor or alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 87-125, passed 10-26-1987; Ord. 2008-86, passed 7-14-2008)
§ 963.09 POWER MODELS AND TOY ENGINE UNITS.
   No person in or adjacent to a park shall operate any engine powered model or
toy airplane without the written authorization of the Director of Parks and
Recreation. The Director has the discretion of determining whether or not
authorization should be given based on other activities in the area and whether
or not the operator has the necessary licensing.
(Ord. 87-125, passed 10-26-1987)
§ 963.10 WEAPONS.
   (a)   No person in a park, except a police officer, shall possess a deadly
weapon, dangerous ordnance, air rifle, slingshot or missile-throwing device, or
discharge any deadly weapon, dangerous ordnance or air rifle. This prohibition
shall not be construed to infringe upon the rights of any person who has been
issued a license or temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun
under R.C. § 2923.125 or § 2923.1213.
   (b)   Unauthorized bows and arrows, knives, air or gas guns, missiles,
slingshots or other missile-throwing devices, or any snares or traps brought
into a park may be confiscated by peace officers.
   (c)   Any person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on the first
offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense the person shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Ord. 87-125, passed 10-26-1987; Ord. 2009-52, passed 5-18-2009; Ord. 2019-15,
passed 2-11- 2019)
§ 963.11 CAMPING.
   No person shall establish or maintain any camp or other temporary lodging
place or sleeping place within the park without the specific written permit
from the Director.
(Ord. 87-125, passed 10-26-1987)
§ 963.12 FIRES.
   (a)   No person shall start a fire in a park except small fires for cooking
purposes in park grills.
   (b)   The Director may at his or her discretion prohibit fires or smoking
for limited periods at any location or for any purpose when necessary for the
protection of park property.
   (c)   All fires shall be properly contained and extinguished by the person
or persons starting or using the same before leaving the immediate vicinity of
the fire.
   (d)   No person in a park shall collect wood in a park for any purpose.
   (e)   No person in a park shall place portable stoves or grills in shelters
or on combustible picnic tables.
   (f)   No person in a park shall deposit burning material or hot ashes on
grass or plants, or in refuse containers.
(Ord. 87-125, passed 10-26-1987)
§ 963.13 COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES.
   (a)   No person in a park shall sell or offer for sale any article,
privilege or services unless the sales or offer is pursuant to a contract with
the Park District.
   (b)   No person in a park shall beg, peddle or solicit for money, a
privilege or service.
   (c)   No park shall be used for commercial purposes except with a permit
from the Director.
(Ord. 87-125, passed 10-26-1987)
§ 963.14 ERECTING AND ATTACHING SIGNS.
   No person shall erect a sign or attach a sign to property owned or
controlled by the Park District, nor shall any person display any placard,
notice, advertisement, circular, banner or statement of any kind other than a
permanent sign on a vehicle.
(Ord. 87-125, passed 10-26-1987)
§ 963.15 WATER ACTIVITIES.
   (a)   No person shall place any boat, canoe, raft or watercraft of any type
upon or in a lake, pond, stream or other waters within the boundaries of a park
without specific written permission from the Director.
   (b)   No person shall swim, bathe, wade or enter into any waters within a
park.
(Ord. 87-125, passed 10-26-1987)
§ 963.16 FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES.
   (a)   No person in a park shall have in his or her possession or ignite any
fireworks.
   (b)   No person in a park shall have in his or her possession or detonate
any explosives or explosive devices.
(Ord. 87-125, passed 10-26-1987)
§ 963.17 ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person in a park shall operate an all-terrain vehicle, air balloon,
hang glider, metal detector, ultra light airplane or any type of aircraft.
   (b)   No person in a park shall operate a snowmobile, engage in sledding,
skiing or ice skating except in areas and at times designated by the Director.
   (c)   No person in a park shall play golf or drive golf balls except in
those areas and at times designated by the Director.
(Ord. 87-125, passed 10-26-1987)
§ 963.18 EMPLOYEE EXEMPTION.
   (a)   Acts of employees of the Park District, to the extent necessary for
the performance of their authorized duties, shall be exempt from the provisions
of the rules and regulations in this chapter.
   (b)   The Director may from time to time designate a Park District employee
or employees to exercise any authority permitted him or her under the rules and
regulations in this chapter.
(Ord. 87-125, passed 10-26-1987)
§ 963.19 EJECTION FROM PARK.
   (a)   Peace officers and employees of the Park District may order any person
violating any of the provisions of the rules and regulations in this chapter to
leave a park and no person shall fail to obey an order.
   (b)   Any person repeatedly violating any rule or regulation in this chapter
may lose the privilege of entering a park for a period of time as designated by
the Director therein.
(Ord. 87-125, passed 10-26-1987)
§ 963.20 AUTHORITY.
   The rules and regulations in this chapter are adopted by the Park and
Recreation Board of the city, pursuant to R.C. § 1545.09, for the preservation
of good order within and adjacent to parks and reservations of land, and for
the protection and preservation of the parks, parkways and other reservations
of land under its jurisdiction and control and of property and natural life
therein.
(Ord. 87-125, passed 10-26-1987)
§ 963.21 RULES FOR SKATEBOARDS.
   (a)   No person shall use or operate a skateboard or any similar device upon
any No Skate Zone Area except the special events approved by the City Manager.
   (b)   The following shall be designated as No Skate Zone Areas:
      (1)   Mason Veterans Memorial plaza;
      (2)   Ceremonial Plaza located in front of the Municipal Center;
      (3)   Downtown plaza located on Main Street;
      (4)   All park playground structures and surrounding borders;
      (4)   Corwin Nixon Park and Mason Sports Park ball fields and adjacent
spectator areas;
      (5)   Mason Community Center entranceways; and
      (6)   Bridges located within the city.
(Ord. 2008-42, passed 4-21-2008)
Cross-reference:
   Rules for skateboards, see §
373.12
§ 963.22 LOU EVES MUNICIPAL POOL; RATES FOR DAILY ADMISSIONS AND ANNUAL PASSES.
   The name of the City of Mason Pool was changed from Municipal Swimming Pool
to the Lou Eves Municipal Pool as approved by City Council Ordinance 1998-
8 passed on January 25, 1998.
   (a)   Rates established. There are hereby established the rates for daily
admissions and memberships for use of the Mason Community Center. The fee shall
be as established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time.
   (b)   Rules and regulations.
   (c)   Effective date.
   (d)   Annual adjustment. Beginning January 1, 2011, the rates established by
this section shall be adjusted, effective January 1 of each year, by a cost of
living allowance to be determined by City Council on an annual basis. An
adjusted annual rated schedule shall be posted at the Lou Eves Municipal Pool
and made available upon request.
(Ord. 1994-110 passed 11-14-1994; Ord. 1996-179, passed 12-16-1996; Ord. 1997-
146, passed 11-24-1997; Ord. 1998-181, passed 11-23-1998; Ord. 1999-192, passed
11-22-1999; Ord. 2000-184, passed 11-27-2000: Ord. 2001-220, passed 12-7-2001;
Ord. 2002-165, passed 12-5-2002; Ord. 2003-146, passed 11-24-2003; Ord. 2004-
135, passed 11-22-2004; Ord. 2005-154, passed 11-28-2005; Ord. 2007-13, passed
1-22-2007; Ord. 2009-33, passed 4-9-2009)
§ 963.23 FISHING.
   (a)   Fishing regulations. 
      (1)   Regulations. A City of Mason fishing license is required to take
fish from City of Mason park waters.
      (2)   A City of Mason fishing license may be obtained in the form of a
daily pass or season pass as established in the ordinances for fishing rates.
      (3)   The park waters designated for fishing are the lakes at Pine Hill
Lakes Park and other bodies of water as designated by the Parks and Recreation
Director.
      (4)   Anglers must have their City of Mason license in their possession
while fishing and must show the license to anyone on request.
      (5)   Snagging. Snagging with a hook to pierce and hook a fish in a part
of the body other than the inside of the mouth is prohibited.
      (6)   Fishing lines. Anglers may not use more than two fishing lines,
whether fastened to a pole, a rod and reel, or hand held. Anglers may use up to
two hooks on each line.
      (7)   Archery anglers. No person shall fish with a bow and arrow of any
kind.
      (8)   Ice fishing. Ice fishing is not permitted.
      (9)   Cast nets. Anglers shall not use a cast net with a square mesh less
than one-quarter inch or larger than one inch on a side, or with a diameter of
greater than ten feet. Anglers are encouraged to use fishing lines.
      (10)   Live release of fish. Any fish not of legal size and/or the
quantity limits as posted in Pine Hill Lakes Park or not legally caught must be
released immediately.
      (11)   Fishing limits. Anglers must follow the size limitations and
quantity limits for fishing. The fishing limits shall be posted at Pine Hill
Lakes Park and made available upon request. Fishing may become catch and
release only as designated and posted by the Park and Recreation Director.
   (b)   Fishing rates. 
      (1)   Rates established. There are hereby established the rates for daily
rates and season passes for fishing. The rates shall be as established and set
forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the rates shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time.
      (2)   Annual adjustment. Beginning January 1, 2011, the rates established
by this section shall be adjusted, effective January 1 of each year, by a cost
of living allowance to be determined by City Council on an annual basis. An
adjusted annual rated schedule shall be posted at Pine Hill Lakes Park and made
available upon request.
(Ord. 1987-27, passed 4-27-1987; Ord. 1988-13, passed 2-8-1988; Ord. 1997-46,
passed 3-24-1997; Ord. 2009-32, passed 4-9-2009)
§ 963.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of §§
963.04(a), (b) or (c),
963.05(a) or (b),
963.06(a) or (b),
963.07,
963.08 or
963.09, shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor on the first offense; on a
second offense within one year after the first offense, the person shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, on each subsequent offense within
one year after the first offense the person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree. Penalties are as provided in §
501.99 of the city codified ordinances.
(Ord. 87-125, passed 10-26-1987)
CHAPTER 965: PUBLIC CONTRACTS
Section
965.01   Cost estimates
965.02   Retainage
965.03   Prequalification of bidders
965.04   Rules and regulations for prequalification of bidders
965.05   Disposition of bids of unqualified bidders
965.06   Notification of prequalified bidders
965.07   Design-build contracts
Charter reference:
   Contract execution, see Charter §
5.04(K)
   Manager as contracting officer; contract conditions, see Charter §
5.04(J)
Cross-reference:
   Joint purchasing programs, see §
133.07
§ 965.01 COST ESTIMATES.
   The city shall not be bound by any of the provisions of the Ohio Revised
Code presently in effect, or as enacted or amended from time to time, which
require the city to make cost estimates on public improvement projects public
at any time before advertising for bids and awarding a contract.
(Ord. 85-1980, passed 10-13-1980)
§ 965.02 RETAINAGE.
   The city may, in the specifications on each project, establish its payment
procedure including what amount should be retained until completion of the
project. The city need not deposit the retained sums in an escrow account to
accrue interest as may be required at any time by the Ohio Revised Code. The
retainer shall be released upon compliance with all requirements of the
contract.
(Ord. 85-1980, passed 10-13-1980)
§ 965.03 PREQUALIFICATION OF BIDDERS.
   The City Manager may, on any contract, require that all bidders desiring to
offer bids for the performance of the contracts proposed to be awarded by the
city be prequalified. The City Manager shall cause to be prepared the rules and
regulations authorized by him or her to be made, together with all printed
forms for applications for qualification and statements of prospective bidders,
and shall cause copies of the same to be made available to the public at a
reasonable cost. The City Manager shall cause notice of prequalification of
bidders to be advertised at least 40 days prior to the last day any
prequalification submittal shall be accepted. The City Manager shall make
available the prequalification documents at least 30 days prior to the last day
prequalification submittal shall be accepted.
(Ord. 92-109, passed 9-28-1992)
§ 965.04 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR PREQUALIFICATION OF BIDDERS.
   For the purpose of ensuring to the city and public the award of any contract
to competent and responsible bidders, the City Manager may prepare and
promulgate the rules and regulations as he or she deems proper. The rules and
regulations may cover the requirements with respect to equipment, past record
and experience of the applicant, personnel of the organization, financial
capabilities and others as the City Manager deems necessary to enable to pass
upon the qualifications of applicants.
(Ord. 92-109, passed 9-28-1992)
§ 965.05 DISPOSITION OF BIDS OF UNQUALIFIED BIDDERS.
   The City Manager shall not consider any bid filed with him or her by any
person who has not been qualified to bid. Bids from among qualified bidders
discovered by the City Manager prior to the reading thereof to be from the
persons shall be returned without being read. If the City Manager finds,
subsequent to the opening of bids that facts exist which would disqualify the
lowest bidder or that the bidder is not competent and responsible, the City
Manager shall reject the bid, despite the fact of prior qualification of the
bidder. No contract shall be awarded to any bidder not qualified to bid thereon
at the time fixed for receiving bids.
(Ord. 92-109, passed 9-28-1992)
§ 965.06 NOTIFICATION OF PREQUALIFIED BIDDERS.
   All applicants for prequalification shall be notified by the City Manager or
anyone authorized by him or her of the final action on their applications
within 30 days following the last day prequalification submittals are due.
(Ord. 92-109, passed 9-28-1992)
§ 965.07 DESIGN-BUILD CONTRACTS.
   (a)   General provisions. Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 735.05 through 735.09 or
any other provision of this Chapter 965, a design-build contract awarded as
provided in this Code is valid and enforceable.
   (b)   Definition.  DESIGN-BUILD means a project delivery system for
improvements to real property by which a person is solely responsible
contractually as a contractor to an owner for both the design and construction
of the improvement, which  design and construction may include a performance-
based specification established by the owner rather than a specific design as
an improvement goal.
   (c)   Design-build qualifications.
      (1)   At a time design-build services are to be provided under a design-
build contract, a design/builder must be an entity, employ an entity, or have
as a partner, member, joint venturer, or subcontractor, an entity that is
licensed, registered or otherwise qualified under Ohio law to provide the
design professional services and construction services to complete the public
improvement project and do business in Ohio.
      (2)   In accordance with this chapter, a design/builder may contract with
the city to provide design professional services and construction services that
the design/builder is not itself licensed, registered or otherwise qualified
under Ohio law to perform if the design/builder provides the services through
subcontracts with licensed, registered or otherwise qualified entities under
Ohio law.
   (d)   Procurement process.
      (1)   When a design-build contract, estimated under $500,000, is
considered by the city for implementation of a public improvement project, the
city may combine the qualifications and proposal in a one-step, competitive
procurement process to award the design-build contract. A description of the
procurement process shall be included in the RFQ-RFP.
      (2)   A request for qualification (RFQ)- request for proposal (RFP) will
be issued which will include qualification criteria. Of qualified respondents,
the city will evaluate and rank the remaining RFQ-RFP, negotiate the design-
build contract, and award the design-build contract. Prior to ranking of
proposers, the city may require and evaluate submittals of preliminary
proposals or resubmittals of proposals from each proposer.
   (e)   Qualifications and ranking of respondents.
      (1)   The city shall advertise the availability of the RFQ-RFP in one or
more newspapers of general circulation in the city, once a week for two
successive weeks. The advertisement shall provide a general description of the
public improvement project and the method for obtaining a copy of the RFQ-RFP.
      (2)   The RFQ-RFP shall include the following information:
         A.   The location of the public improvement project.
         B.   A general description of the public improvement project.
         C.   A description of the procurement process.
         D.   The submittal requirements for the RFQ-RFP.
         E.   A description of evaluation criteria to be used in ranking
respondents, including an indication of the relative importance of each
criterion. The evaluation criteria may include any of the following:
            1.   Description of project solution.
            2.   Experience.
            3.   Past performance.
            4.   Key staff.
            5.   Financial capability and condition.
            6.   Technical approach.
            7.   Criteria for prequalification of subcontractors.
            8.   Price.
            9.   Any other criteria defined in the RFQ-RFP.
      (3)   The city may interview or seek clarifications from some or all of
the respondents during the evaluation.
      (4)   After evaluation of the qualifications, in accordance with the
criteria set forth in the RFQ-RFP, the city shall rank the most qualified,
responsive respondents. Provided that the city has received at least two
responses, the city may rank no less than two respondents.
      (5)   If at any time prior to receipt of proposals, a ranked respondent
withdraws from the procurement process, the city may add a respondent that was
not previously ranked to the short list.
      (6)   The city may establish a maximum budget for the public improvement
project and require all price proposals to be less than the maximum budget in
order for a design-build contract to be awarded.
   (f)   Evaluation of proposals and award of design- build contract.
      (1)   The city shall evaluate proposals in accordance with the
procurement process and evaluation criteria defined in the RFQ-RFP.
      (2)   As defined in the RFQ-RFP, the city may meet with proposers, seek
clarifications on proposals, consider proposed alternatives, revise the RFQ-
RFP, or require best and final proposals.
      (3)   Before awarding the contract, the design-build proposal must
include subcontractor prequalification criteria as approved by the city, and
the proposal must identify at least three prospective bidders for each major
subcontract (general, mechanical, electrical, plumbing, sprinkler, as
applicable or as determined by the city in the RFQ-RFP) prequalified to bid on
the subcontract under an open pricing method.
      (4)   The city shall evaluate and rank the proposals, and, if applicable,
best and final proposals based on the factors, weighting (if applicable), and
process identified in the RFQ-RFP.
      (5)   The city is not required to rank first the proposer that submits
the lowest price proposal.
      (6)   The city may reject any and all proposals.
      (7)   The city may negotiate a design-build contract term with the
highest-ranked proposer, except for those terms identified in the RFQ-RFP as
nonnegotiable.
      (8)   If the city is unable to negotiate a design-build contract term
with the highest-ranked proposer, the city may suspend or end negotiations with
the proposer and initiate negotiations with the next highest ranked proposer.
      (9)   The city shall continue in accordance with this procedure until a
contract agreement is reached or the selection process is terminated.
      (10)   Before construction begins pursuant to a design-build contract,
the design-build firm shall provide a surety bond to the city in an amount not
less than the combined contract values of any work under the design-build
contract.
      (11)   City Council shall approve the design- build contract.
(Ord. 2011-73, passed 8-8-2011)
CHAPTER 967: MASON COMMUNITY CENTER
Section
967.01   Rates for daily admissions and annual passes
Cross-reference:
   Public parks, see
Ch. 963
§ 967.01 RATES FOR DAILY ADMISSIONS AND ANNUAL PASSES.
   (a)   Rates established. There are hereby established the rates for daily
admissions and memberships for use of the Mason Community Center. The fees
shall be as established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title
Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fees shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time.
   (b)   Rules and regulations. The City Manager, or his or her designee, is
hereby empowered to adopt and promulgate and to enforce rules and regulations
relating to any matter or thing pertaining to the use, admission and membership
for the Mason Community Center, including provisions establishing and
maintaining a membership loyalty program and the establishment of other
periodic specials and discounts as warranted based on market conditions and
competition.
   (c)   Effective date. The fees shall be applicable toward any passes and
memberships purchased on or after October 1, 2010, and on renewals of passes
expiring after October 1, 2010.
   (d)   Annual adjustment. Beginning, January 1, 2012, the rates established
by this section shall be adjusted, effective January 1 of each year, by a cost
of living factor to be determined by Council on an annual basis. An adjusted
annual rate schedule shall be posted at the Community Center and made available
upon request.
(Ord. 2001-219, passed 12-10-2001; Ord. 2003-149, passed 11-24-2003; Ord. 2004-
125, passed 9-27-2004; Ord. 2005-155, passed 11-28-2005; Ord. 2008-88, passed
7-14-2008; Ord. 2010-104, passed 9-13-2010)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
PART ELEVEN: PLANNING AND ZONING CODE
      TITLE ONE - Subdivision Regulations
         Chap.
1101. Adoption, Jurisdiction and Definitions
         Chap.
1103. Subdivision Process
         Chap.
1105. Preliminary Plat Requirements
         Chap.
1107. Construction Plans
         Chap.
1109. Design Standards
         Chap.
1110. Landscape Plan and Street Tree Requirements, Signage, Street Lighting
         Chap.
1111. Bond Procedures and Subdivision Fund
         Chap.
1113. Final or Record Plat Procedures and Requirements
         Chap.
1114. Minor Subdivisions, Modifications and Exceptions
         Chap.
1115. Access Management Regulations
         Chap.
1116. Traffic Impact Study Regulations
         Chap.
1117. Driveway Approaches and Curb Cuts
         Chap.
1118. Validity and Penalty
         Chap.
1119. Water Management and Sediment Control
      TITLE TWO - Administration
         Chap.
1121. Fee Schedule
      TITLE THREE - Zoning Administration
         Chap.
1131. Purpose and Interpretation
         Chap.
1133. Definitions
         Chap.
1135. Administrative Procedures
         Chap.
1137. District Changes and Ordinance Amendments
         Chap.
1141. Variances and Appeals
      TITLE FIVE - Zoning Districts
         Chap.
1145. Districts and Boundaries
         Chap.
1147. R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-4 Single-Family Residential Districts
         Chap.
1148. R-6 Condominium and Landominium Residential District
         Chap.
1149. R-7 Multi-Family Residential District
         Chap.
1153. O-1 Office Park District
         Chap.
1155. B-1 Central Business District
         Chap.
1157. B-2 Shopping Center District
         Chap.
1159. B-3 Road Service District
         Chap.
1160. B-4 Commercial Recreation District
         Chap.
1161. Planned Unit Development District
         Chap.
1162. HT-1 High Tech Light Industrial District
         Chap.
1163. I-1 Light Industrial District
         Chap.
1165. I-2 Industrial District
         Chap.
1169. Floodplain Overlay District and Floodplain Management Regulations
         Chap.
1170. Downtown Overlay District
      TITLE SEVEN - Zoning General Provisions
         Chap.
1171. Compliance and General Regulations
         Chap.
1172. Conditionally Permitted Uses
         Chap.
1173. Nonconforming Uses
         Chap.
1174. Large Retail Establishment Design Standards
         Chap.
1175. Off-Street Parking and Loading
         Chap.
1177. Motels and Motor Hotels
         Chap.
1181. Height Modifications
         Chap.
1183. Frontage and Yard Modifications
         Chap.
1185. Fences and Yard Projections
         Chap.
1187. Sign Regulations
         Chap.
1188. Cellular or Wireless Communications Systems
         Chap.
1189. Sexually Oriented Business Supplemental Standards
      TITLE NINE - Comprehensive Plan
         Chap.
1200. Comprehensive Plan
      APPENDICES
         
Appendix A: Summary of Uses for Residential Districts
         
Appendix B: Summary of Uses for Nonresidential Districts
         
Appendix C: Development Standards for Nonresidential Districts
***** TITLE ONE: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS *****
CHAPTER 1101: ADOPTION, JURISDICTION AND DEFINITIONS
Section
1101.01   Purpose, intent, authority and adoption of regulations
1101.02   Relations to other laws
1101.03   Jurisdiction
1101.04   Conformity to Comprehensive Plan, Thoroughfare Plan and zoning
1101.05   Administration
1101.06   Separability
1101.07   Sale of land within a subdivision
1101.08   Definitions
Statutory reference:
   Lost or destroyed records, see R.C. §§ 711.34 et seq.
   Lots outside municipal boundaries, see R.C. §§ 711.24 et seq.
   Original plats, see R.C. §§ 711.01 et seq.
   Plat and subdivision defined, see R.C. § 711.001
   Revision of plats, see R.C. §§ 711.28 et seq.
   Street dedication and acceptance, see R.C. § 723.03
   Vacating or altering plats on application of owner, see R.C. §§ 711.17 et
seq.
§ 1101.01 PURPOSE, INTENT, AUTHORITY AND ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS.
   (a)   The following regulations are hereby declared to be the law regulating
the subdivision of land within the city and shall hereinafter be referred to as
these regulations. (Ordinance 99-207, passed January 10, 2000, and codified as
Title One of this Part Eleven - Zoning Ordinance.)
   (b)   The authority for the preparation, adoption and implementation of
these Subdivision Regulations is vested in the Planning Commission and City
Council, and is derived from R.C. § 711.09, which enables the two bodies to
adopt uniform rules and regulations governing plats and subdivisions of land
falling within their legal authority.
   (c)   It is the general intent of these Subdivision Regulations to regulate
the division and development of land so as to further the following policies:
      (1)   Assure sites suitable for building purposes and human habitation,
and to provide for the harmonious development of the city;
      (2)   Provide for the orderly and appropriate development of land in
accordance with the Zoning Ordinance, the Landscape Ordinance, Thoroughfare
Plan, access management regulations, Driveway Approaches and Curb Cuts,
Comprehensive Development Plan, Water Master Plan and Wastewater System Master
Plan;
      (3)   Assure adequate open space for traffic, recreation, light and air;
      (4)   Provide facilities for the orderly movement of traffic on alleys,
streets, collectors, arterials and freeways;
      (5)   Assure adequate and safe provision and proper construction of
transportation facilities, water, sanitary sewerage, storm drainage and
retention, open space, street lights, landscaping and other public facilities;
      (6)   Provide for the orderly arrangement of streets, public facilities
and public services in accordance with the adopted Comprehensive Development
Plan, Thoroughfare Plan, access management regulations and driveway approaches
and curb cuts;
      (7)   Provide for adequate street lighting and signing;
      (8)   Guarantee proper access of firefighting equipment and public
service equipment;
      (9)   Protect to the maximum degree possible historic sites, scenic
points, desirable natural growth, watercourses and other water areas, and other
environmentally sensitive features worthy of preservation;
      (10)   Guarantee the equitable distribution of the costs and benefits of
public works and facilities by requiring that the initial cost of constructing
improvements which are necessitated by the new development shall be borne by
the developer and not by the city taxpayer. Such improvements include:
         A.   Public improvements and facilities in new developments; and
         B.   Public improvements and facilities necessary for proper public
access and services to new developments.
      (11)   Coordinate the operations of city departments and other agencies
involved with land development.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1101.02 RELATIONS TO OTHER LAWS.
   The provisions of these regulations shall supplement any and all laws of the
city and the state, or any and all rules and regulations promulgated by
authority of the law or resolution relating to the purpose and scope of these
regulations. Whenever the requirements of these regulations are at variance
with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations,
ordinances or resolutions, the most restrictive or that imposing the highest
standard shall govern. These regulations shall be interpreted as minimum
requirements.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1101.03 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations governing plats and subdivision of land contained herein
shall apply within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1101.04 CONFORMITY TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN, THOROUGHFARE PLAN AND ZONING.
   The arrangement, character, width and location of all thoroughfares or
extensions thereof shall conform with the requirements of the Thoroughfare Plan
and Comprehensive Development Plan of the city. Thoroughfares not contained in
the aforementioned plan shall conform to the recommendations of the Planning
Commission based upon the design standards set forth in these regulations. In
addition, no final plat of land will be approved unless it conforms with the
Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1101.05 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Engineering, Building and Planning Department shall be responsible for
the uniform administration and enforcement of these regulations, with the
approval of the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall make
recommendations to City Council on zoning of property, rezonings, plats and
amendments to the Subdivision Regulations which would further the purposes and
objectives of these regulations.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1101.06 SEPARABILITY.
   If, for any reason, any clause, sentence, paragraph, section or other part
of these regulations should be decided by a court of competent jurisdiction to
be invalid, the judgements shall not affect the validity of these regulations
as a whole, or any part thereof, other than the part so held to be invalid.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1101.07 SALE OF LAND WITHIN A SUBDIVISION.
   No owner, subdivider or agent of the owner of any land located within a
subdivision shall transfer or sell any land by reference to, exhibition of, or
by the use of a plat of the subdivision before the plat has been approved and
recorded in the manner prescribed in these regulations. The description of the
lot or parcel by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other
documents used in the process of selling or transferring shall not exempt the
transaction from the provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1101.08 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions in
Chapter 1133 of the Zoning Ordinance of the city shall be considered a part of
these Subdivision Regulations.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
CHAPTER 1103: SUBDIVISION PROCESS
Section
1103.01   Subdivision process
1103.02   Concept plan and pre-application meeting
1103.03   Compliance with design principles required
Statutory reference:
   Lost or destroyed records, see R.C. §§ 711.34 et seq.
   Lots outside municipal boundaries, see R.C. §§ 711.24 et seq.
   Original plats, see R.C. §§ 711.01 et seq.
   Plat and subdivision defined, see R.C. § 711.001
   Revision of plats, see R.C. §§ 711.28 et seq.
   Street dedication and acceptance, see R.C. § 723.03
   Vacating or altering plats on application of owner, see R.C. §§ 711.17 et
seq.
§ 1103.01 SUBDIVISION PROCESS.
Table 1103 - Summary of Subdivision Process
 Applicable Chapter/Section Approving Agency
Table 1103 - Summary of Subdivision Process
                                        Applicable Chapter/ Approving Agency
                                        Section
Acceptance of public improvements and   1111.06             City Council
release of performance bond
Concept plan and pre-application        1103.02             NA
meeting
Construction plans and pre-construction 1107,               City Engineer and
meeting                                 1109,               Public Utilities
                                        1119                Director
Final plat                              1113                Planning Commission
                                                            and City Council
Landscape plan                          1110.01             Planning Commission
Maintenance bond                        1111                City Engineer
Minor subdivision                       1114                City Engineer
                                        1103,               Planning Commission
Preliminary plat                        1105,               and City Council
                                        1109
PUD rezoning and concept plan           1161                Planning Commission
                                                            and City Council
Release of maintenance bond             1111.08             City Engineer
Rezoning, if needed                     1137                Planning Commission
                                                            and City Council
Subdivider’s contract and performance 1111                City Engineer
bond
 
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1103.02 CONCEPT PLAN AND PRE-APPLICATION MEETING.
   (a)   Pre-application meeting. The subdivider should meet with the City
Engineer, then informally with Planning Commission prior to the submission of
the preliminary plat. The purpose of this meeting is to discuss, early and
informally, the purpose and effect of these regulations and the criteria and
standards contained herein. The meeting is designed to familiarize the
subdivider with the Comprehensive Development Plan; the Thoroughfare Plan;
access management regulations; other relevant plans; applicable zoning
standards; present and proposed drainage, sewerage and water systems for the
city; and to determine the need for a traffic impact study, based upon the
level of impact of this development upon surrounding traffic flow and safety.
   (b)   Concept plan. The following information shall be included on a concept
plan submitted by the subdivider to be discussed at the pre-application meeting
and subsequently presented to the Planning Commission:
      (1)   The proposed subdivision in relation to existing community
facilities, thoroughfares, residential developments, zoning districts and
existing natural and man-made features, such as soil types, vegetation, flood-
prone areas and utilities in neighboring areas;
      (2)   The layout and acreage of streets and any nonresidential sites,
such as commercial, industrial, educational or recreational uses within the
proposed subdivision;
      (3)   Identification of the site’s adjacent streets by Functional Roadway
Classifications and Access Level from Maps 1115.02 and 1115.03;
      (4)   All proposed locations for access to the site;
      (5)   Access points within 300 feet of the property on all roadways
adjacent to the property;
      (6)   Estimate of traffic volumes to be generated by the proposed land-
use;
      (7)   A.   The proposed location of utilities in the subdivision, if
available, or the locations of the nearest sources of water and public
facilities for the disposal of sewage and stormwater; and
         B.   In areas where the utilities are not available, the proposed
method of providing these facilities shall be stated and outlined.
      (8)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the owners;
subdividers; and engineers preparing the plan; and
      (9)   The title and scale of the subdivision, a north arrow and the date.
   (c)   Submission of preliminary plat to Planning Commission. If, during the
pre-application meeting or at later date, it is determined that the proposed
subdivision is feasible and acceptable from these standpoints, or if the
subdivider chooses not to request a pre-application meeting or submit a concept
plan to the Planning Commission, the preparation of a preliminary plat for
submission to the Planning Commission for formal consideration can occur. No
comments or statements made during a pre-application meeting or presentation of
a concept plan to Planning Commission or any of its members shall be construed
as a final acceptance of the preliminary plat until the formal approval of the
Planning Commission and City Council is granted.
   (d)   Fees. Typically, a fee is not charged to the subdivider for a pre-
application meeting; however, the subdivider shall reimburse the city for costs
incurred by the city for a consultant to review the concept plan. Payment of
the review fees shall be required on or before the date on which the
preliminary plat fee is submitted.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 1103.03 COMPLIANCE WITH DESIGN PRINCIPLES REQUIRED.
   In planning and developing a subdivision, the subdivider shall comply with
the general principles of design and minimum requirements for the layout of
subdivisions and with the rules and regulations concerning required
improvements, as set forth in these Subdivision Regulations.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
CHAPTER 1105: PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS
Section
1105.01   Preliminary plat purpose and procedure
1105.02   Preliminary plat preparation
1105.03   Existing data and information
1105.04   Proposed features and information
1105.05   Preliminary plat referrals and approval by Planning Commission
1105.06   Disapproval by Planning Commission
1105.07   Preliminary plat approval by Council
1105.08   Preliminary plat approval period
Statutory reference:
   Lost or destroyed records, see R.C. §§ 711.34 et seq.
   Lots outside municipal boundaries, see R.C. §§ 711.24 et seq.
   Original plats, see R.C. §§ 711.01 et seq.
   Plat and subdivision defined, see R.C. § 711.001
   Revision of plats, see R.C. §§ 711.28 et seq.
   Street dedication and acceptance, see R.C. § 723.03
   Vacating or altering plats on application of owner, see R.C. §§ 711.17 et
seq.
§ 1105.01 PRELIMINARY PLAT PURPOSE AND PROCEDURE.
   The preliminary plat shall illustrate the proposed development of the entire
parcel or parcels. The purpose of the preliminary plat is to show, on a map,
all facts needed to enable the Planning Commission to determine the merit of
the proposed development based upon aspects of proper planning and whether the
proposed layout of the land in the subdivision furthers the public interest,
health, safety and welfare. The preliminary plat shall not serve as a record or
final plat.
   (a)   The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat of the proposed
subdivision which shall conform with the requirements set forth in this chapter
and in the design standards and construction drawings of the city. At least 30
days prior to the meeting of the Commission at which the preliminary plat is
initially to be presented, the subdivider shall file with the City Engineer the
following:
      (1)   An application, obtained in the Engineering, Building and Planning
Department, for approval of the plat;
      (2)   Twenty copies of the plat; and
      (3)   The fee set forth in §
205.01.
   (b)   The filing of an application for approval of a preliminary plat with
the City Engineer shall constitute the consent by and acceptance of the
subdivider to pay the fees to the city. Failure to pay the fees constitutes an
incomplete application and will not be placed on the Planning Commission agenda
for consideration until the fees are paid.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1105.02 PRELIMINARY PLAT PREPARATION.
   The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a registered professional engineer
or surveyor. The plat shall be accurately and clearly drawn at a minimum scale
of one inch equals 100 feet or as approved by the City Engineer, and shall
include all existing and proposed features as set forth in §§
1105.03 and
1105.04. Where the preliminary plat covers only a part of the subdivider’s
entire contiguous holdings, a drawing of the prospective future street system
of the unsubmitted part shall be furnished and the street system of the
submitted part will be considered in the light of adjustments and connection
with the street system of the part not submitted. A vicinity map at a scale of
400 feet or more to the inch shall be drawn on or shall accompany the
preliminary plat. This shall show all abutting existing subdivisions and
streets and unplatted parcels of land.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1105.03 EXISTING DATA AND INFORMATION.
   The preliminary plat shall clearly show the following existing features and
information:
   (a)   The proposed name of the subdivision (which shall not duplicate or
closely approximate the name of any other subdivision in Warren County), tract
and section number;
   (b)   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of the owner of record,
subdivider and the person or firm preparing the preliminary plat;
   (c)   Scale, north point, title and date;
   (d)   Lot numbers, names of adjacent subdivisions and the names of record
owners of adjacent parcels of unplatted land;
   (e)   Boundary lines: showing bearings and distances and the method by which
they were derived, as surveyed by a registered surveyor, or as shown by
existing deed records. If applicable, all corporation lines, section lines and
township lines shall be shown;
   (f)   Easements: location, width and purpose;
   (g)   All streets or other public ways, in and adjacent to the subdivision:
names, location, lane dimensions, shoulders, curbs, centerline, medians, right-
of-way, roadway width, bike paths and sidewalks;
   (h)   Identification of the site’s adjacent streets by Functional Roadway
Classifications and Access Level from Maps 1115.02 and 1115.03;
   (i)   Legal rights-of-way or easements affecting the property as it relates
to the roadway:
      (1)   Existing location(s) and dimensions for access to the site;
      (2)   Existing locations of all access points within 300 feet of the site
on all roadways adjacent to the site; and
      (3)   Existing traffic signals within 300 feet of the subject site.
   (j)   Utilities, culverts and other underground structures in and adjacent
to the subdivision: location, size, type and depth of all existing underground
installations;
   (k)   Site topography to 100 feet outside the property, with a minimum of
four-foot interval contours, unless site conditions require more detailed
topography as determined by the City Engineer;
   (l)   Other conditions within the subdivision such as water courses, ponds
and areas subject to flooding; wetlands; marshes; rock outcropping; wooded
areas; any structure or other significant features; and FEMA-designated
floodplains; and
   (m)   Zoning requirements: Indicate the zoning district of the subdivision,
applicable Overlay Districts and the zoning districts of the adjacent
properties.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 2001-26, passed 2-26-2001)
§ 1105.04 PROPOSED FEATURES AND INFORMATION.
   The preliminary plat shall follow the design standards in
Chapter 1109 and shall clearly show the following proposed features and
information:
   (a)   Streets. Show proposed streets, collectors and arterials with right-
of-way and pavement designs meeting the requirements of the Thoroughfare Plan
and these Subdivision Regulations. Include:
      (1)   Dimensions of the adjacent roadways, lane dimensions, shoulders,
curbs, medians, bike paths and sidewalks;
      (2)   Proposed location(s) and dimensions for access to the site;
      (3)   Proposed right-of-way acquisitions and alternate access, if
appropriate;
      (4)   Proposed locations of all access points within 300 feet of the site
on all roadways adjacent to the site; and
      (5)   Proposed traffic signals within 300 feet of the subject site.
   (b)   Other rights-of-way or easements. Including sanitary, water, storm
sewers, utilities and landscape: location, width and purpose;
   (c)   Lots. Consecutively numbered, scaled dimensions, estimated area of
irregular shaped lots in square feet, and typical building setback lines with
dimensions shown graphically;
   (d)   Total site data. Including acreage; number of lots; typical lot size;
sidewalks; sanitary sewer and water lines; and drainage facilities;
   (e)   Public or private uses. All parcels of land intended to be dedicated
or temporarily reserved for public use; and all parcels of land of which the
ownership remains private which are reserved in the deeds for the common use of
property owners in the subdivision, with the purpose, condition or limitations
of the reservation, indicated. If private, a statement of proposed covenants or
restrictions for future maintenance shall be furnished, whether on the plat or
as a separate recorded instrument;
   (f)   Buried debris. The approximate location of possible burial sites of
organic debris which results from clearing and construction of the proposed
subdivision. Organic debris includes tree stumps and other organic matter which
naturally decomposes. This provision shall not be interpreted to authorize
burial or landfilling of inorganic debris, including, but not limited to,
construction debris or other solid wastes, which shall only be disposed of
according to the regulations of the State Environmental Protection Agency or
another authorized agency;
   (g)   Drainage sketch. A drainage boundary map indicating ability to comply
with
Chapter 1119 of the Water Management and Sediment Control Ordinance, with the
FEMA floodplain lines if applicable;
   (h)   Utilities. The proposed utilities conforming to the Water Master Plan
and the Wastewater System Master Plan; and
   (i)   Traffic impact study. A traffic impact study shall be submitted with
the preliminary plat if any of the criteria in §
1116.02 are met.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1105.05 PRELIMINARY PLAT REFERRALS AND APPROVAL BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (a)   (1)   The preliminary plat and the general statement as to
improvements will be checked by the City Engineer as to their conformity with
the Thoroughfare Plan, Zoning Ordinance, Landscape Ordinance, Sign Ordinance,
Comprehensive Development Plan, Water Master Plan, Wastewater System Master
Plan, and other applicable sections of the city’s codified ordinances and the
principles, standards and requirements hereinafter set forth, and copies
thereof will be referred by the City Engineer to the following agencies for
recommendations (if applicable) and other action as may be required by law or
regulation:
         A.   Butler County Engineer;
         B.   Fire Chief;
         C.   Parks and Recreation Director; and
         D.   Warren County Engineer.
      (2)   Failure of the above agencies or officials to report to the City
Engineer prior to the next Planning Commission meeting shall be deemed to
constitute approval of the preliminary plat by the agencies or officials.
   (b)   Upon receipt of the recommendations, or other action provided by the
above, the Commission shall approve the plat within 30 days of their next
regular meeting, shall disapprove the plat, or shall table its consideration of
the plat until the next regularly scheduled meeting, with the reason for
tabling specifically stated. The failure of the Commission to approve,
disapprove or table a plat within the time herein fixed or further time as the
applying party may agree to, shall constitute approval of the plat by the
Commission, and the certificate of the City Engineer as to the date of the
submission of the plat for approval and the failure to take action thereon
within the time shall be issued on demand and shall be sufficient in lieu of
the written endorsement of approval required by this section.
   (c)   The approval of the preliminary plat by the Commission shall be deemed
to be only an approval of the layout of the tract and the City Engineer, the
Warren County Engineer, the Butler County Engineer or other officials having
jurisdiction may modify any engineering or construction details proposed by the
subdivider, whenever required for the protection of the public interest.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1105.06 DISAPPROVAL BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (a)   If the Commission disapproves the plat, it shall enter in its minutes
the reason for the disapproval, including citation of or reference to the rule
or regulation violated by the plat. The subdivider may thereafter make the
changes as he or she deems necessary to conform the plat to the rules and
regulations and resubmit the plat, as revised, to the Commission for approval
or disapproval, which revised plat shall be processed within the times and in
the manner provided in this section.
   (b)   Within 60 days after the disapproval of a plat by the Commission, or
within 60 days after its disapproval of a revised plat, if a revised plat shall
have been submitted, the person submitting the plat may file a petition in the
Court of Common Pleas of Warren County, Ohio, as provided in the R.C. § 711.09.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1105.07 PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL BY COUNCIL.
   Upon approval of a preliminary plat, the Commission shall certify one copy
thereof to Council for approval or disapproval. Failure of Council to approve
or reject the preliminary plat on or before the first regular meeting occurring
more than ten days following certification of the plat to Council shall be
deemed to constitute approval of the preliminary plat and shall constitute
approval of the layout of the streets and public grounds shown thereon, and
shall evidence Council’s intention to accept dedication of the same upon
approval by the Commission of the final plat.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1105.08 PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL PERIOD.
   Approval of the preliminary plat is effective for a maximum period of 24
months and shall guarantee that the terms under which the approval is granted
will not be affected by changes to these regulations during that period,
provided some portion of the subdivision has been recorded or the subdivider
starts construction of the improvements within the 24-month period after
approval.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
CHAPTER 1107: CONSTRUCTION PLANS
Section
1107.01   Construction plan application procedure
1107.02   Construction plans
1107.03   Inspections
1107.04   Time for completion of construction and interim repairs and
maintenance
Statutory reference:
   Lost or destroyed records, see R.C. §§ 711.34 et seq.
   Lots outside municipal boundaries, see R.C. §§ 711.24 et seq.
   Original plats, see R.C. §§ 711.01 et seq.
   Plat and subdivision defined, see R.C. § 711.001
   Revision of plats, see R.C. §§ 711.28 et seq.
   Street dedication and acceptance, see R.C. § 723.03
   Vacating or altering plats on application of owner, see R.C. §§ 711.17 et
seq.
§ 1107.01 CONSTRUCTION PLAN APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (a)   Construction plan application. After approval by Council of the
preliminary plat and before grading work and construction of the required
street, sanitary and drainage improvements may begin, the subdivider shall
provide to the City Engineer for distribution and review:
      (1)   An application obtained in the Engineering, Building and Planning
Department;
      (2)   Five sets of construction plans for all improvements, sealed by a
state registered engineer, and prepared in accordance with the minimum
construction plan requirements in this chapter, the design standards
requirements of
Chapter 1109, erosion control and stormwater standard requirements of
Chapter 1119, and the city standard construction drawings developed by the City
Engineer and Public Utilities Director; and following the subdivision
arrangement shown on the approved preliminary plat;
      (3)   The required submission fee (see §
205.01); and
      (4)   Two copies of the drainage boundary map and stormwater calculations
as required in
Chapter 1119.
   (b)   Distribution of plans.
      (1)   Copies of the plans will be sent to the following agencies for
recommendations (if applicable) and other action as may be required by law or
regulation:
         A.   Butler County Engineer;
         B.   Public Works Director;
         C.   Public Utilities Director;
         D.   Fire Chief;
         E.   Parks and Recreation Director; and
         F.   Warren County Engineer.
      (2)   Failure of the above agencies or officials to report to the City
Engineer within 30 calendar days from the date of referral shall be deemed to
constitute approval of the construction plans by the agencies or officials.
   (c)   Construction plan approval and pre-construction meetings. After
approval and signature of the plans by the City Engineer and Public Utilities
Director, the subdivider shall contact the Engineering, Planning and Building
Department to set a pre-construction meeting with all parties before beginning
construction. Construction shall not begin until this meeting takes place.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1107.02 CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   Construction plans for improvements shall incorporate the standard
construction drawings for the city; shall be furnished in accordance with the
specifications of the City Engineer; shall require approval by the City
Engineer, the Fire Chief and the Public Utilities Director before improvements
are installed and before approval of the final plat; and shall include the
following:
   (a)   The center line profile of each proposed street, with proposed grades
indicated at 50-foot intervals;
   (b)   The cross section of each proposed street, showing the width of
pavement, the location and width of sidewalks, and the location and size of
utility mains;
   (c)   The plans and profiles of proposed sanitary sewers and stormwater
sewers, with grades and sizes indicated;
   (d)   A plan of the proposed water distribution system, showing pipe sizes
and the location of valves and fire hydrants;
   (e)   (1)   A drainage boundary map (meeting the requirements of
Chapter 1119) showing all existing and proposed storm sewers, manholes, catch
basins, watercourses, culverts and other underground structures within the
tract and immediately adjacent thereto, with pipe sizes and grades and waterway
openings indicated thereon. A general grading-drainage plan shall be prepared
and made a part of the construction drawings for the total development, showing
the intended drainage from individual lots as well as the total development.
The plan shall coordinate the needs for proper drainage and aesthetics of the
total development. Positive surface drainage shall be provided for the total
development. This may be accomplished by grading and/or installation of pipe
drainage system. When the topography is changed to a higher or lower level than
the natural grade, suitable slopes or measures shall be provided to blend the
changed contour in with the surroundings. The grading work shall not impede the
natural flow of storm drainage. Grading shall be done so that the rate of
existing storm drainage (runoff) to the adjoining property is not increased nor
is it concentrated to spill off the property at new locations.
      (2)   A soil erosion plan showing best management practices (meeting the
requirements of
Chapter 1119) shall be submitted to maintain acceptable housekeeping or
standards of cleanliness and neatness of the site during and after development.
The site shall not be used as a waste area for construction debris. In case of
on-site excess earthen materials, the wasting of such shall be in a manner
which will be compatible with the general grading-drainage plan. The piling or
dumping of the material without spreading or distribution shall not be
permitted.
   (f)   A traffic maintenance plan if working on a public right-of-way,
showing necessary detours, if any, and in accordance with the requirements set
forth in the latest edition of the Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices (OMUTCD).
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1107.03 INSPECTIONS.
   Prior to starting any of the work covered by the construction plans, whether
for public or private improvements, but after the plans are approved, the
subdivider shall notify the Engineering, Building and Planning Department in
order to schedule an inspection. The notification shall be made at least 24
hours before construction at the site is to begin. At that time, the subdivider
shall also arrange for future inspections to ensure that the work complies with
the approved plans and specifications.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1107.04 TIME FOR COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION AND INTERIM REPAIRS AND
MAINTENANCE.
   The subdivision improvements shall be installed in accordance with the
approved construction drawings. The construction of all improvements required
by these rules and regulations shall be completed within two years of the date
of approval of the final plat by City Council, unless good cause can be shown
for the granting of an extension of time by authority of the City Engineer. Any
“repairs or maintenance” required during the period of time after final plat
approval and prior to acceptance of the public improvements by the city shall
be completed within the time established by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
CHAPTER 1109: DESIGN STANDARDS
Section
1109.01   General requirements
1109.02   Flood hazards; adverse physical characteristics
1109.03   Suitability of land
1109.04   Street design conformance
1109.05   Street and block layout
1109.06   Minimum pavement requirements
1109.07   Street grades, grade changes and curvature
1109.08   Intersections
1109.09   Lots
1109.10   Underground wiring and utilities
1109.11   Sidewalks
1109.12   Water management and sediment control
1109.13   Storm sewers
Cross-reference:
   Sidewalks, see
Ch. 911
   Utilities, see
Chs. 941 through
951
Statutory reference:
   Lost or destroyed records, see R.C. §§ 711.34 et seq.
   Lots outside municipal boundaries, see R.C. §§ 711.24 et seq.
   Original plats, see R.C. §§ 711.01 et seq.
   Plat and subdivision defined, see R.C. § 711.001
   Revision of plats, see R.C. §§ 711.28 et seq.
   Street dedication and acceptance, see R.C. § 723.03
   Vacating or altering plats on application of owner, see R.C. §§ 711.17 et
seq.
§ 1109.01 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   In laying out a subdivision, the subdivider shall comply with the
following general principles and requirements. The regulations contained in the
following sections, the Zoning Ordinance, Comprehensive Development Plan, Water
Master Plan, Wastewater System Master Plan and the Standard Construction
Drawings shall control the manner in which streets, lots and other elements of
a subdivision are arranged on the land. These design controls shall help ensure
convenient and safe streets, creation of useable lots, provision of space for
public utilities and reservation of land for recreation uses. The planning of
attractive and functional neighborhoods shall be promoted, minimizing the
undesirable features of unplanned, haphazard growth.
   (b)   The Planning Commission has the responsibility for reviewing the
layout of each future subdivision early in its design development. The City
Engineer shall ensure that all the requirements of
Chapter 1107, this chapter and the standard construction drawings inclusive are
met.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1109.02 FLOOD HAZARDS; ADVERSE PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS.
   In order to protect the health, safety and general welfare of the people,
the Planning Commission will review any area of a proposed subdivision subject
to flooding, in accordance with
Chapter 1169.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1109.03 SUITABILITY OF LAND.
   If the Planning Commission finds that land proposed to be subdivided is
unsuitable for subdivision development due to flooding, bad drainage, poor
soils, topography, inadequate water supply, transportation facilities and other
conditions which may endanger health, life or property; and if from
investigations conducted by the public agencies concerned, it is determined
that in the best interest of the public, the land should not be developed for
the intended purpose, the Commission shall not approve the land for
subdivision.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1109.04 STREET DESIGN CONFORMANCE.
   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, construction and location
of all streets in a subdivision shall conform to the official Thoroughfare
Plan, to the driveway and curb cut regulations in
Chapter 1117, to the access management regulations in
Chapter 1115, and to the city’s standard construction drawings.
   (a)   Whenever a tract to be subdivided embraces any part of a highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, collector or local street, so designated on the
Thoroughfare Plan, the part of the public way shall be platted by the
subdivider in the location and at the width indicated on the Thoroughfare Plan.
   (b)   Street design shall take into consideration their relationship to
existing and planned streets, topographical conditions, public convenience and
safety and their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of land to be served
by the streets.
   (c)   Duplicates of the standard construction drawings shall be kept on file
in the offices of the City Engineer.
   (d)   If a street is to be designed with a median, wherever possible, the
median shall be a minimum of 12 feet in width measured from face of curb to
face of curb, unless waived by the City Engineer, and be landscaped to match
landscaping design in the immediate area.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 2005-133, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 1109.05 STREET AND BLOCK LAYOUT.
   The street layout of the subdivision shall be in general conformity with a
plan for the most advantageous development of adjoining areas and the entire
neighborhood.
   (a)   Where appropriate to the design, proposed streets shall be continuous
and in alignment with existing, planned or platted streets with which they are
to connect.
   (b)   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the tract
to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical conditions
or unless, in the opinion of the Commission, the extension is not necessary or
desirable for the coordination of the layout of the subdivision with the
possible future development of adjacent tracts.
   (c)   Dead-end streets of reasonable length (not over 800 feet) will be
approved where necessitated by topography or where, in the opinion of the
Commission, they are appropriate for the type of development contemplated.
   (d)   Proposed streets shall intersect one another as nearly at right angles
as topography and other limiting factors of good design permit.
   (e)   Wherever there abuts the tract to be subdivided a dedicated or platted
and recorded half-width street or alley, the other half-width of the street or
alley shall be platted.
   (f)   (1)   Lands abutting numbered state or federal highways, collector
streets or arterials should be platted with the view of making the lots, if for
residential use, desirable for the use by cushioning the impact of heavy
traffic on trafficways; and with the view also of minimizing interference with
traffic on the trafficways as well as the accident hazard.
      (2)   This may be accomplished in several ways:
         A.   By platting the lots abutting the trafficways at very generous
depth; and by providing vehicular access to them by means of streets, alleys or
service drives in the rear or frontage access roads next to the highway,
connected therewith at infrequent intervals;
         B.   Another more desirable and usually more economical method
consists of not fronting the lots on the highway but on a minor street
paralleling the highway at a distance of a generous lot depth. Private
driveways in this case would, of course, connect with the minor street;
         C.   Under still another scheme, a minor street may be platted more or
less parallel with the highways, from which loop streets or dead-end streets
would extend toward the highway, the ends of which give access to the lots
abutting the highway to their rear; and
         D.   Selection, in a specific case, among the foregoing or other
acceptable methods for accomplishing the purposes in view, must necessarily be
made in consideration of topography and other physical conditions, the
character of existing and contemplated developments and other pertinent factors
that apply in each case.
   (g)   No subdivider shall lay out any private road, street, highway, lane or
boulevard, unless the proposed road, street, highway, lane or boulevard is
built in compliance with the standards of design and construction applicable to
public streets. Any private road, street, highway, lane or boulevard shall be
constructed at a minimum width of 25 feet back of curb to back of curb. The
design and construction of these improvements shall be as determined under the
provisions of the city’s codified ordinances, including the Subdivision
Regulations and the standard construction drawings.
   (h)   Temporary dead-end streets may be approved where necessitated by the
layout of the subdivision or staging of development, provided that temporary
turnarounds shall be constructed within the limits of the street right-of-way
where lots front on temporary dead-end streets. The design and construction of
the turn-around shall be determined by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1109.06 MINIMUM PAVEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Minimum pavement widths, back of curb to back of curb, required to be
installed at the subdivider’s expense, shall be as follows:
Table 1109.01 - Minimum Pavement Widths
Street Type(1) Right-of-Way Width Roadway Width
                                  (back of curb to back of curb)
Table 1109.01 - Minimum Pavement Widths
Street Type(1)              Right-of-Way Width Roadway Width
                                               (back of curb to back of curb)
Alleys and service drives   NA                 20 feet
Collector                   60 feet            41 feet
Cul-de-sacs                 50 foot radius     39.5 foot radius
Major arterial or primary   100 feet           65 feet
thoroughfare
Minor                       50 feet            29 feet
Minor arterial or secondary 80 feet            53 feet
thoroughfare
Private streets             NA                 25 feet
(1) All streets shall be constructed in accordance with the city’s standard
construction drawings.
 
   (b)   The pavement of a turning circle at the end of a dead-end street shall
have a minimum outside diameter of 79 feet. A “T” or “Y” shaped paved space,
when approved by the Commission in place of a turning circle, shall extend
entirely across the width of the street right-of-way, except for sidewalk
space, and shall be at least ten feet wide with the flared portion rounded by
minimum radii of 20 feet.
   (c)   On all existing streets, the subdivider shall be responsible for all
required street improvements in accordance with division (a) above, including
the construction of necessary curb, water lines, sanitary and storm sewers,
inlets, sidewalks, underdrains and the like.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1109.07 STREET GRADES, GRADE CHANGES AND CURVATURE.
   (a)   The grades of streets shall not exceed the percentage shown in
Table 1109.02, column 2, except that where unusual or exceptional conditions
exist, the City Engineer may modify these regulations. In no event shall the
minimum grade of any street or alley be less than .75%.
   (b)   All changes in street grade in excess of 1% shall be connected by
vertical curves. Curve length shall be determined using the following formula:
 
K * AD = L
 
where:
 
K  is the rate of vertical curvature, minimum values of which are shown in
   Table 1109.02, column 3
AD is the algebraic difference in grades (%)
L  is the length of the vertical curve, in feet
 
   (c)   The radii of curvature on the center line shall not be less that the
radii shown in
Table 1109.02, column 4.
 
Table 1109.02 - Street Grade Standards
Type of Street     Maximum Grade Minimum Rate of Vertical Minimum Radii of
                                 Curve (K)                Curvature
Collector streets  7%            50                       400 feet
Major arterials    4%            150                      400 feet
Minor              10%           20                       200 feet
Minor arterials    7%            50                       400 feet
Pedestrian ways or 12%
crosswalks
 
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1109.08 INTERSECTIONS.
   (a)   Streets shall intersect one another at an angle as near to a right
angle as possible. Street intersections shall be rounded with a minimum radius
of 25 feet measured at the back of the curb.
   (b)   When the intersection occurs at an angle other than right angle, it
shall be rounded with a curve of a radius acceptable to the City Engineer.
   (c)   Multiple intersections involving junctions of more than two streets
shall be avoided.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1109.09 LOTS.
   (a)   The size, shape and orientation of lots shall be appropriate for the
location of the proposed subdivision and for the type of development
contemplated and shall be in compliance with applicable zoning requirements.
   (b)   Excessive depth in relation to width shall be avoided. A proportion of
two to one shall normally be considered as appropriate, except in the case of
narrow lots. Residential lots abutting on highways, arterials or collector
streets should have extra depth to permit deep setbacks from the highways.
   (c)   Every lot shall abut on a street.
   (d)   Lots for residence purposes shall have sufficient width at the
building setback lines to permit compliance with the side yard requirements of
the Zoning Ordinance and still be adequate for a building of practicable width.
   (e)   Except as otherwise provided herein, double-frontage lots and
reversed-frontage lots shall be avoided.
   (f)   Where practicable, side lot lines shall be approximately at right
angles to the right-of-way line of the street on which the lot faces.
   (g)   Corner lots for residential use shall be platted wider than interior
lots to permit compliance with the yard and setback requirements of the Zoning
Ordinance.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1109.10 UNDERGROUND WIRING AND UTILITIES.
   Public and common underground electric, cable and telephone lines and other
utilities are mandatory in all residential, office and commercial subdivisions
and districts, and shall be placed in their own easement, shown on the final or
record plat.
   (a)   Electric, cable and telephone lines. In industrial subdivisions where
Duke Energy advises the city that the power load requirements are sufficiently
large as to make underground service impractical or unfeasible, electric, cable
and telephone lines may be installed overhead along rear lot lines with the
recommendation by Planning Commission and the approval of City Council. In an
event where Duke Energy requires a transmission, subtransmission or main line
distribution feed and the cost of installing underground service is impractical
and unfeasible, electric and telephone lines may be installed overhead with the
recommendation by Planning Commission and the approval of City Council. Should
City Council approve the overhead distribution system, all connections to it
shall be made underground. All facilities are to be constructed on one side of
the road without overhead crossovers.
   (b)   Water supply. The subdivision shall be provided with a water
distribution system, meeting the requirements of the city’s Water Master Plan,
adequate to serve the area being platted, including a connection for each lot
and appropriately spaced fire hydrants in accordance with the requirements of
the Public Utilities Director and city standards.
   (c)   Storm drainage. Every subdivision shall be provided with a stormwater
sewer or drainage system adequate to serve the area being platted and otherwise
meeting the approval of the City Engineer and the requirements of the latest
edition of the Stormwater Manual.
   (d)   Sewerage. The subdivision shall be provided with a complete sanitary
sewer system connected with a public sewer main, meeting the requirements of
the city’s Wastewater System Master Plan, including a lateral connection for
each lot in accordance with the requirements of the Public Utilities Director
and city’s standards.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1109.11 SIDEWALKS.
   Sidewalks are an essential element for pedestrian safety in the development
of most residential subdivisions and as such shall be installed in accordance
with the following standards.
   (a)   Residential areas (R-1 through R-7). In R-3, R-4, R-6 and R-
7 residential areas, sidewalks shall be installed on both sides of all streets,
including cul-de-sacs. In R-1 and R-2 residential areas, sidewalks shall be
installed on both sides of all arterials and collector streets, and on at least
one side of all local streets.
   (b)   Commercial areas (B-1, B-2, B-3 and B-4). Sidewalks in commercial
areas shall be installed on both sides of all streets.
   (c)   High-tech and industrial areas (HT-1, I-1 and I-2). Sidewalks in
industrial plats may be required at the option of the Planning Commission,
except sidewalks are required on both sides of all arterials, parkways and
collector streets.
   (d)   Office park areas (O-1). Sidewalks in office park plats may be
required at the option of the Planning Commission, except sidewalks are
required on both sides of all arterials, parkways and collector streets.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1109.12 WATER MANAGEMENT AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
   All subdivisions of land shall conform to the requirements, standards and
procedures set forth in latest edition of the Stormwater Manual.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1109.13 STORM SEWERS.
   For regulations regarding storm sewers, refer to the latest edition of the
Stormwater Manual.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 2004-155, passed 1-10-2005)
CHAPTER 1110: LANDSCAPE PLAN AND STREET TREE REQUIREMENTS, SIGNAGE, STREET
LIGHTING
Section
1110.01   Landscape plan and street tree requirements
1110.02   Street naming and street name signs
1110.03   Entrance gates and signs
1110.04   Street lighting
Cross-reference:
   Sidewalks, see
Ch. 911
   Utilities, see
Chs. 941 through
951
Statutory reference:
   Lost or destroyed records, see R.C. §§ 711.34 et seq.
   Lots outside municipal boundaries, see R.C. §§ 711.24 et seq.
   Original plats, see R.C. §§ 711.01 et seq.
   Plat and subdivision defined, see R.C. § 711.001
   Revision of plats, see R.C. §§ 711.28 et seq.
   Street dedication and acceptance, see R.C. § 723.03
   Vacating or altering plats on application of owner, see R.C. §§ 711.17 et
seq.
§ 1110.01 LANDSCAPE PLAN AND STREET TREE REQUIREMENTS.
   A landscape plan meeting the requirements of the Landscape Ordinance and the
Street Tree Ordinance shall be submitted to Planning Commission for approval
before or with the final plat, for all property which is subject to the
Landscape and/or Street Tree Ordinances. Trees shall be planted in all tree
lawns in accordance with city’s Street Tree Ordinance.
   (a)   Landscape plan application. The subdivider shall furnish an
application obtained in the Engineering, Building and Planning Department,
along with the submission fee (see §
205.01), and 15 copies of the plans prepared by a landscape architect.
   (b)   Distribution of plans. Copies of the plans will be sent to the
following agencies for recommendations (if applicable) and other action as may
be required by law or regulation:
      (1)   Planning Commission members;
      (2)   City Engineer;
      (3)   City Planner; and
      (4)   Parks and Recreation Director.
   (c)   Landscape plan approval. The Planning Commission shall approve the
landscape plan within 30 days of its next regular meeting, shall disapprove the
plan or shall table its consideration of the plan until the next regularly
scheduled meeting, with the reason for tabling specifically stated. The failure
of the Commission to approve or disapprove a landscape plan within the time
herein fixed or a further time as the applying party may agree to, shall
constitute approval of the plan by the Commission, and the certificate of the
City Engineer as to the date of the submission of the plan for approval and the
failure to take action thereon within the time shall be issued on demand and
shall be sufficient in lieu of the written endorsement of approval required by
this section.
   (d)   Inspections. Landscape improvements shall be subject to inspection and
shall be deemed satisfactory by the City Engineer before the subdivider’s
performance bond can be released.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1110.02 STREET NAMING AND STREET NAME SIGNS.
   (a)   Unless an arrangement is made by the subdivider with the City Engineer
to use ornamental signs, the Public Works Department will erect the necessary
stop, speed, information and street signs, and the subdivider shall reimburse
the city for the cost thereof. Ornamental street signs shall be erected by the
subdivider, at the subdivider’s expense, and are required to meet the standards
set forth in the Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices and shall be
maintained by the development or owners’ association.
   (b)   Names of new streets shall not duplicate existing or platted street
names or have similar sounding names unless a new street is a continuation of,
or in alignment with, an existing or platted street.
   (c)   To avoid duplication and confusion, proposed street names, public or
private, shall be approved by the City Engineer and the Police and Fire
Departments prior to the names being assigned or used.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1110.03 ENTRANCE GATES AND SIGNS.
   Entrance gates, posts, columns, walls, fences or similar structures designed
to indicate entrances to subdivisions or parts thereof, and signs designating
the subdivision or development, will be permissible on private property,
provided Planning Commission determines the structures to be desirable. A
building permit must be obtained for all structures, and in no case shall the
structures be built on top of any easement or in the right-of-way. Signs on the
structures naming the designer, supplier, builder or installer are prohibited.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1110.04 STREET LIGHTING.
   The subdivider shall submit a street lighting plan in accordance with the
following standards.
   (a)   Street lights shall be located along each existing or proposed street
upon approximately 150 feet centers or as recommended by the electric utility
company which will supply the subdivision and as approved by the City Engineer.
The City Engineer may also require the installation of additional street lights
as he or she deems necessary for public safety.
   (b)   Street lighting fixture, wiring and pole design shall be uniform
throughout the subdivision as approved by the City Engineer.
   (c)   The subdivider shall pay all costs of construction for all street
lighting.
   (d)   Construction of individual street light poles shall not begin until
approval is obtained from the City Engineer. When street lighting, poles,
wiring and fixtures have been installed and approved by the City Engineer and
accepted by City Council, the city shall assume the cost of providing necessary
electrical power to the street lighting fixtures.
   (e)   The subdivider shall work with Duke Energy to ensure that when the
streets are accepted by the city, the city will be paying the lowest possible
rate for electricity.
   (f)   All light poles that Duke Energy will not maintain shall be maintained
by the developer or homeowners’ association.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
CHAPTER 1111: BOND PROCEDURES AND SUBDIVISION FUND
Section
1111.01   Subdivider’s contract and performance bond
1111.02   Bond reduction
1111.03   Default of subdivider’s contract
1111.04   Subdivider to pay cost of inspection and testing
1111.05   Subdivision Inspection Deposit Fund
1111.06   Acceptance of public improvements; release of performance bond,
acceptance of maintenance bond
1111.07   Maintenance after approval
1111.08   Release of maintenance bond
Statutory reference:
   Lost or destroyed records, see R.C. §§ 711.34 et seq.
   Lots outside municipal boundaries, see R.C. §§ 711.24 et seq.
   Original plats, see R.C. §§ 711.01 et seq.
   Plat and subdivision defined, see R.C. § 711.001
   Revision of plats, see R.C. §§ 711.28 et seq.
   Street dedication and acceptance, see R.C. § 723.03
   Vacating or altering plats on application of owner, see R.C. §§ 711.17 et
seq.
§ 1111.01 SUBDIVIDER’S CONTRACT AND PERFORMANCE BOND.
   The subdivider may apply for final plat approval prior to his or her
completion of the required public improvements by entering into a subdivider’s
contract with the city, thereby ensuring the construction of all improvements
shown on the approved construction plans, ensuring completion of the public
improvements and ensuring that “repairs and maintenance” of the improvements
shall be performed during the period of time between final plat approval and
City Council’s acceptance of the improvements. Subdivider’s contract forms
shall be available at the City Engineer’s office. The obligations therein shall
be secured by a performance bond as described below.
   (a)   (1)   The subdivider’s engineer shall submit to the City Engineer for
approval an itemized estimate of quantities for all proposed improvements and a
determination of the costs thereof using the city’s bond price list. When
approving the estimates, the City Engineer may properly take into account
escalations in costs of construction, repairs and maintenance due to the
passage of time.
      (2)   If the subdivision or any part thereof is not located within the
city limits, the city may, with the consent of the Warren County or Butler
County Engineer, assign to the county any or all rights of the city under this
section or pursuant to any agreement with a subdivider.
   (b)   The subdivider and/or engineer shall be informed by letter of the
amount of the performance bond required. The performance bond may be a bond,
letter of credit or certified check, as the case may be, in suitable form
acceptable to the City Engineer and Law Director and for no less than the
amount stated by the City Engineer.
   (c)   The performance bond shall be delivered to the City Engineer
accompanied by the subdivider’s contract executed by the subdivider on forms
supplied by the City Engineer’s office, and stating the length of time to
finish the improvements, but not exceeding two years.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1111.02 BOND REDUCTION.
   The subdividers contract may allow for a partial release of the bond when
specific improvements have been made, inspected, tested and approved by the
City Engineer. However, the agreement shall provide that before any funds are
released, the City Engineer issue a certificate that the balance remaining
after the payment shall, in his or her opinion, be adequate to pay the
remaining cost of the improvements and the cost of “repairs and maintenance.”
In no case shall the performance bond, letter of credit or certified check be
reduced to less than 10% of the original estimate before the public
improvements are accepted by City Council.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1111.03 DEFAULT OF SUBDIVIDER’S CONTRACT.
   The performance bond, letter of credit or certified check shall remain in
effect until the public improvements are accepted unless there is a default in
the completion of the improvements or the failure of the subdivider to perform
“repairs and maintenance” on the improvements during the period of time between
final plat approval and the time noted in the subdivider’s contract. In the
event of default, as determined by the City Engineer, the letter of credit or
certified check may be cashed by the Finance Director and the proceeds thereof
used to complete the improvements, to make the repairs, to provide the
maintenance, to pay claims connected therewith for which the subdivider may be
liable, and to secure any other default of the subdivider connected with the
making of the improvements. In the case of a performance bond the necessary
steps will be taken by the Law Director to require performance by the bonding
company.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1111.04 SUBDIVIDER TO PAY COST OF INSPECTION AND TESTING.
   Before the performance bond may be released:
   (a)   All outstanding fees owed to the city must be paid;
   (b)   The subdivider shall grant to the City Engineer the authority to order
and conduct any inspections and testing that, in the City Engineer’s opinion,
are deemed necessary for final approval; and
   (c)   The subdivider shall pay the costs of all testing ordered by the City
Engineer and the costs of all inspections not included in the fee schedule in §
205.01.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1111.05 SUBDIVISION INSPECTION DEPOSIT FUND.
   (a)   There is established on the books of the city a fund entitled
Subdivision Inspection Deposit Fund.
   (b)   All incomes and expenses relating to §
1111.04 shall be placed in and disbursed from the Fund.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1111.06 ACCEPTANCE OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS; RELEASE OF PERFORMANCE BOND,
ACCEPTANCE OF MAINTENANCE BOND.
   (a)   The subdivider shall properly construct and shall be responsible for
making “repairs and maintenance” and alterations in accordance with §
1111.01 to provide that improvements are in good condition at the time the
subdivider requests in writing their acceptance by City Council.
   (b)   Acceptance of improvements for use and maintenance by the public shall
be subject to satisfactory compliance with the following requirements:
      (1)   The subdivider shall forward a written request to the City Engineer
for a final inspection of the physical improvements for release of the
performance bond;
      (2)   The City Engineer shall notify the subdivider of any corrections
that are needed for compliance with the approved construction plans, as noted
during field inspections by the Public Works Director, the Public Utilities
Director or the City Engineer. When all items are satisfactorily completed, the
subdivider will be notified in writing;
      (3)   When the required improvements are completed and written approvals
from the Public Works Director and the Public Utilities Director have been
granted and received by the City Engineer, the subdivider shall submit to the
City Engineer as-built drawings of the subdivision along with a maintenance
bond meeting the requirements of §
1111.07; and
      (4)   After receiving and approving the as-built drawings and maintenance
bond, the City Engineer shall notify City Council that the construction of all
streets and improvements in the subdivision have been satisfactorily completed,
giving a description of the improvement. City Council will thereupon adopt an
ordinance accepting the improvements, releasing the performance bond, accepting
the maintenance bond and accepting all public improvements for city
maintenance.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1111.07 MAINTENANCE AFTER APPROVAL.
   Before any improvement is accepted or any responsibility is assumed by the
city, a guarantee by the subdivider in an amount equal to 10% of the total cost
of construction of all improvements, with a minimum of $5,000, shall be
furnished in the form of a bond, certified check or letter of credit. This
guarantee shall assure the correction of any defect or failure from any cause
whatsoever appearing in any public improvement, as shown on the construction
drawings, for a period of one year, or as determined by the City Engineer and
stated in the maintenance bond, after acceptance by City Council. After
acceptance, the streets and sidewalks shall be kept free of any obstructions,
such as building material, equipment, temporary buildings and the like. The
bond form shall be available at the office of the City Engineer.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1111.08 RELEASE OF MAINTENANCE BOND.
   Release of the maintenance bond shall be made in one year or as stated in
the maintenance bond, subject to satisfactory compliance with the following
requirements:
   (a)   The subdivider shall request in writing to the City Engineer for a
final inspection of the physical improvements for release of the maintenance
bond;
   (b)   The City Engineer shall notify the subdivider of any corrections that
are needed for compliance with the approved construction plans, as noted during
field inspections by the Public Works Director, the Public Utilities Director
or the City Engineer. When all items are satisfactorily completed, the
subdivider will be notified in writing; and
   (c)   When the required improvements are completed and all required written
approvals regarding same have been granted and received by the City Engineer,
the maintenance bond will be released to the subdivider.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
CHAPTER 1113: FINAL OR RECORD PLAT PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS
Section
1113.01   Final plat submission and fees
1113.02   Payment of assessments against streets
1113.03   Certificate of title, building permits and copy of recorded plat
1113.04   Final plat information, identification and description
1113.05   Tabulation of lot areas
1113.06   Verification by City Engineer
1113.07   Commission approval
1113.08   Council acceptance
1113.09   Required statements
Statutory reference:
   Lost or destroyed records, see R.C. §§ 711.34 et seq.
   Lots outside municipal boundaries, see R.C. §§ 711.24 et seq.
   Original plats, see R.C. §§ 711.01 et seq.
   Plat and subdivision defined, see R.C. § 711.001
   Revision of plats, see R.C. §§ 711.28 et seq.
   Street dedication and acceptance, see R.C. § 723.03
   Vacating or altering plats on application of owner, see R.C. §§ 711.17 et
seq.
§ 1113.01 FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION AND FEES.
   (a)   The subdivider, having received approval of the preliminary plat and
construction plans of the proposed subdivision and upon completion of all
improvements or posting of appropriate security and subdivider’s contract as
required by these Subdivision Regulations, shall file with the City Engineer,
at least 12 working days before the Planning Commission meeting, a final plat
which meets the requirements of this chapter, together with an application for
approval thereof, accompanied by the original Mylar plat and 20 copies and a
minimum fee as set forth in §
205.01 for the review of the final plat. The final plat or any portion of the
subdivision which has been approved by the Commission may be submitted for
approval. Completion of improvements, or the giving of security therefor, need
only cover that portion of the plat for which final approval is requested.
   (b)   The filing of an application for approval of a final plat with the
City Engineer shall constitute the consent by and acceptance of the subdivider
to pay the fees to the city. Failure to pay the fees constitutes an incomplete
application and will not be placed on the Planning Commission agenda for
consideration until the fees are paid.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1113.02 PAYMENT OF ASSESSMENTS AGAINST STREETS.
   Where land comprising streets created by a plat is subject to an assessment
which has been or is about to be levied, the owner shall, as a condition to
approval of the final plat, either pay in cash the amount of the assessment
chargeable to the land in the streets, or enter into a contract, satisfactory
to the City Manager and the Law Director, subjecting the remainder of the
subdivision to additional assessments equal to the amount chargeable to the
streets.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1113.03 CERTIFICATE OF TITLE, BUILDING PERMITS AND COPY OF RECORDED PLAT.
   The subdivider shall file a certification of title showing the ownership of
all lands to be dedicated to the public and that the title thereof is free and
unencumbered. Before building permits are issued, a reproducible copy of the
record plat, after it is recorded with Warren County, must be filed with the
City Engineer.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1113.04 FINAL PLAT INFORMATION, IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION.
   The final plat shall clearly show the following information:
   (a)   Name of subdivision. The name of the subdivision and the name or
number of the larger subdivision or tract of which the tract now subdivided
forms a part;
   (b)   North point and the like. North point; scale; acreage; number of lots;
date of survey; location by section, range and township, or by other legal
description; and title;
   (c)   Boundary lines. Plat boundaries, based on accurate traverse, with
angular and linear dimension. All dimensions, both linear and angular, shall be
determined by an accurate control survey in the field which meets the minimum
standards for boundary surveys in the state per O.A.C. Chapter 4733-37;
   (d)   Recorded streets. The exact location and the width along the property
line of all existing recorded streets intersecting or paralleling the
boundaries of the tract;
   (e)   Bearings and distances. True bearings and distances to nearest
established street bounds, patent or other established survey lines or other
official monuments, which monuments shall be located or accurately described on
the plat. Any patent or other established survey or corporation lines shall be
accurately monument marked and located on the plat, and their names shall be
lettered on them;
   (f)   Monuments. The accurate location and material of all permanent
reference monuments;
   (g)   Layout. The exact layout including:
      (1)   Streets and alley lines. Their names, bearings, angles of
intersection and widths, including widths along the line of any obliquely-
intersecting street;
      (2)   Mathematical data. Sufficient mathematical data for each curved
line so that the curve can be reproduced without ambiguity;
      (3)   Easements and rights-of-way. All easements and rights-of-way, when
provided for or owned by public services, utilities or waterways, with the
limitation of the easement rights definitely stated on the plat; and
      (4)   Lot lines. All lot lines with dimensions in feet and hundredths,
and with bearings and angles to minutes if other than right angles to the
street and alley lines.
   (h)   Lot and block numbers. Lots numbered in numerical order or as
established on the preliminary plat. In tracts containing more than a block,
the blocks may be likewise numbered in numerical order or lettered in
alphabetical order;
   (i)   Property offered for dedication.
      (1)   The accurate outline of all property which is offered for
dedication for public use, and of all property that may be reserved by covenant
in the deeds for the common use of the property owners in the subdivision, with
the purpose indicated thereon; and
      (2)   All lands dedicated to public use other than streets or roads shall
be marked “Dedicated to the Public.” Streets and roads not dedicated shall be
marked “Private Street.”
   (j)   FEMA floodplain and watercourses. In cases where the subdivision is
traversed by a FEMA floodplain, watercourse, channel, stream or creek, the
location of the floodplain, including the 500-year floodplain boundary, the
100-year floodplain boundary and the floodway, shall be plotted directly from
the FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map and Floodway Map and Floodplain Overlay Map;
   (k)   Buried debris. The location and dimensions of any burial sites of
organic debris from clearing and construction of the subdivision. Organic
debris includes tree stumps and other organic matter which naturally
decomposes. This provision shall not be interpreted to authorize burial or
landfilling of inorganic debris, including, but not limited to, construction
debris or other solid wastes, which shall only be disposed of according to the
regulations of the State Environmental Protection Agency, or another authorized
agency;
   (l)   Setback lines. As shown on the preliminary plat;
   (m)   Adjoining subdivision; lots and parcels. Names and locations of
adjoining subdivisions and locations and ownership of adjoining unsubdivided
property;
   (n)   Names of owner and the like. Names and addresses of the owner of
record, the subdivider and the registered surveyor who prepared the plat;
   (o)   Contents. All plat contents are to be per R.C. § 711.02;
   (p)   Engineer’s certificates. A certificate by a registered surveyor to the
effect that the plat was prepared by him or her, pursuant to an actual survey
of the premises and that the plat is correct;
   (q)   Covenants and restrictions. A copy of the covenants and restrictions
the subdivider intends to include in the deeds to the lots in the subdivision;
and
   (r)   Owner’s certificates. A notarized certificate by the owner of the land
to the effect that he or she has caused the land to be platted and that he or
she dedicates to public use the streets, parks and other lands indicated on the
plat as intended for public use. This certificate shall be executed as a
conveyance is executed.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 2001-26, passed 2-26-2001)
§ 1113.05 TABULATION OF LOT AREAS.
   There shall be submitted with each plat a tabulation showing the exact area
of each lot, reserve or other parcel on the plat, other than streets and
alleys, and the area of dedicated streets. The accuracy of the tabulation shall
be certified by a registered professional engineer or registered surveyor. The
purpose of this requirement is to facilitate calculation of the trunk sanitary
sewer benefit charges for each lot and parcel.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1113.06 VERIFICATION BY CITY ENGINEER.
   The City Engineer shall check the final plat to determine if it conforms to
the preliminary plat as approved. When the final plat does so conform and the
costs of review have been paid, the City Engineer will submit the plat to the
Planning Commission, together with a two-fold certificate showing that:
   (a)   The technical details of the plat have been checked and that the final
plat conforms in all essential respects to the preliminary plat; and
   (b)   All required improvements have been satisfactorily completed, or that
security has been given for the making of improvements, along with a
subdivider’s contract as provided by these Subdivision Regulations.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1113.07 COMMISSION APPROVAL.
   At the first meeting of the Commission after a copy of the final plat,
together with the City Engineer’s certificate, has been received by the
Commission, the Commission shall approve the final plat and the Chairperson of
the Commission shall endorse the approval on the plat, unless the certificate
of the City Engineer states the final plat is clearly erroneous and the final
plat does not conform in all essential respects to the preliminary plat; or the
requirements of these Subdivision Regulations as to completion of improvements,
or the assuring thereof, have not been complied with; in which case the
Commission may disapprove the plat or table its consideration of the plat until
the next regularly scheduled meeting. Failure of the Commission to approve,
table or disapprove the plat within the time fixed or a further time as the
applicant may agree to, shall constitute approval of the plat, and the
certificate of the Secretary of the Commission as to the date of submission of
the plat for approval and the failure to take action thereon shall be issued on
demand and shall be sufficient in lieu of the written endorsement of approval.
If the Commission disapproves the final plat, it shall enter in its minutes the
reason for the disapproval.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1113.08 COUNCIL ACCEPTANCE.
   Within 15 days after the Commission has approved the final plat, the plat
shall be transmitted to Council, together with all certificates and
endorsements herein required. Council shall approve the plat at its next
regular meeting occurring 15 days or more following the transmission of the
plat to it, unless the certificate of the City Engineer hereinabove referred to
states the final plat is clearly erroneous and the final plat does not
substantially conform to the preliminary plat, or the improvements required by
the preliminary plat have not been completed, in which case Council may
disapprove the plat or table its consideration of the plat until the next
regularly scheduled meeting. Approval of the plat by Council shall be deemed to
constitute acceptance by the city of the dedication of the public ground
necessary for the construction of the streets, right-of-way and other public
improvements. The approval of the plat, however, shall not be deemed to
constitute acceptance of the public improvements. Any public improvements must
be completed according to the standards of the city. If Council fails to
approve, table or disapprove the plat within the prescribed time of this
section, and if the subdivider has not agreed to an extension of this time, the
City Council shall be deemed to have approved the final plat.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1113.09 REQUIRED STATEMENTS.
   The following statements shall be affixed on the subdivision plat. The
Planning Commission may require modifications to these statements. All
signatures, except the signatures of City Council, Warren County Auditor,
Warren County Recorder, City Engineer and the Planning Commission shall be
obtained prior to approval of the subdivision by the Planning Commission and
City Council.
   (a)   Deed reference.
      Situated in the City of Mason, Township of __________, County of Warren,
State of Ohio and being a subdivision containing ______acres and being (part
of) the same tract as conveyed to_________and described in the deed recorded in
Deed (Official Records) Book_______Page______, Warren County, Ohio.
   (b)   Owner’s consent and dedication.
      We, the undersigned, being all the owners and lien holders of the lands
herein platted, adopt and confirm this plat of subdivision and dedicate the
streets, parks or public grounds as shown hereon to the public use forever and
hereby dedicate easements shown on the plat for construction, operation,
maintenance, repair, replacement or removal of water, sanitary sewer, storm
sewer, storm drainage ditches, gas, electric, telephone or other utility lines
or services and for the express privilege of removing any and all trees or
other obstructions to the free use of the utilities and for providing of
ingress and egress to the property for those purposes and are to be maintained
as such forever.
   (c)   Certificate of notary public.
      State of Ohio, County of Warren, S.S.
      Be it remembered on this____day of_____, (year), before me, the
undersigned, a notary public in and for the said county and state, personally
came_________(and_________), who acknowledged the signing and execution of the
foregoing plat to be their voluntary act and deed.
In testimony whereof, I have set my hand and notary seal on the day and date
above written.
                  ___________________
                  (Signature)                   ___________________
                  (Print Name Here)
                  Notary Public
                  State of Ohio
                  My commission expires
   (d)   Certificate of surveyor.
      I hereby certify that this map is a true and complete survey made by me
(under my supervision), on  (date)  and that all monuments and lot corner pins
are (or will be) set as shown.
            ___________________________
            (Signature)                    ___________________________
      (Print name and registration number here)
            Registered Surveyor
   (e)   Restrictions on water and sewer easements.
      No private improvements of any kind except street trees as required by
the Landscape Ordinance shall be made on the right-of-way of easement, which
would interfere with access to any proposed street, utility or other service
improvement, present or future and the City of Mason shall not be responsible
to any present or future owners of the property indicated on this plat for any
damage done on the right-of-way or easements to sod, shrubbery, trees,
underground pipes, wiring or sprinklers, driveways, or other improvements
either natural or artificial by reason of entering for the purpose of
construction, maintaining or replacing the improvements.
   (f)   Restrictions on private drainage easement.
      The City of Mason assumes no legal obligation to maintain or repair any
“Drainage Facilities Easement” or “100 Year Permanent Drainage Easement” on
this plat. The easement area of each lot and all improvements within it shall
be maintained continuously by the lot owner within the easements. No structure,
planting, fencing, culvert, grading, topsoil or other materials shall be placed
or permitted to remain which may obstruct, retard or divert the flow through
the water course.
   (g)   Landscape easement.
      All landscaping and amenity improvements located within any landscape
easement area shall be maintained by the                 Homeowners Association
(or lot owner) as provided for in the declarations of covenants and
restrictions for               Homeowners Association or City of Mason
Landscape Ordinance. The landscaping and easements are to and for the benefit
of the Homeowners Association.
   (h)   Private drainage easements between lots.
      Unless otherwise designated on the record plat, a ten foot wide private
drainage easement shall exist along all common lot lines, the common lot line
being the centerline of the easement. The declarant for its agent and builders
reserves the right to enter upon all lots to establish or reestablish drainage
swales, drainage pipe and drainage tile within the easements for the purpose of
controlling and directing stormwater to collection facilities.
   (i)   Restrictions on utility easements.
      Easements of the plat, designated as “utility easements,” are provided
for the construction, maintenance and operations of poles, wires and conduits,
and the necessary attachments in connection therewith; for the transmission of
electric, telephone and other utilities; for the construction and maintenance
of service and underground stormwater drains, pipelines for supplying gas,
water, heat, electric, telephone and other public or quasi-public utility
functions together with the necessary lateral connections, and also the right
of ingress to and egress from the easements, and to cut, trim or remove trees
and undergrowth or overhanging branches within the easement or immediately
adjacent thereto. No building or other structures may be built within the
easements, nor may the easement area be physically altered so as to:
      (1)   Reduce the clearance of underground facilities;
      (2)   Impair the land support of the facilities;
      (3)   Impair the ability to maintain the facility; and/or
      (4)   Create hazard.
   The above utility easements are for the benefit of all public utility
service providers including, but not limited to Duke Energy, Sprint, Time
Warner Cable, City of Mason.
   (j)   Subject to HOA restrictions.
      The entire property shown herein and all improvements thereon are subject
to the rules, regulations, covenants and restrictions of the
                          Homeowners Association as recorded in Book
          , Page           , of the Warren County, Ohio records and subject to
all recorded amendments and supplements to the
                                               Homeowners Association documents
which may be recorded from time to time.
   (k)   City of Mason Planning Commission approval.
      We, the Planning Commission of the City of Mason, Ohio do hereby approve
this plat on this            day of           ,  (year) .
      PC No.                   
                                                    
                  Chairman
   (l)   City Engineer approval.
      I hereby approve this plat on this           day of            ,  (year)
.
                                                    
                  City Engineer
   (m)   City Council approval.
      I hereby certify that on the        day of      ,  (year) , this plat was
approved and accepted by Ordinance No.               .
      ______________      ______________
      Clerk of Council      Mayor
   (n)   Warren County Recorder.
      File No.__________________
      Received on this ________ day of _______,  (year)  at _____ m.
      Recorded on this _______ day of ________, (year)  at ______m.
      Recorded on Plat Book No. ______on Page No. _________.
      Fee:__________.
      By:
      ___________      ___________________
      Deputy         Warren County Recorder
   (o)   Warren County Auditors transfer.
      Transferred in this _______ day of______,  (year) .
      By:
      __________      ___________________
      Deputy         Warren County Auditor
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
CHAPTER 1114: MINOR SUBDIVISIONS, MODIFICATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS
Section
1114.01   General requirements may be modified
1114.02   Minor subdivisions may be exempt
1114.03   Subdivision of five parcels or less along existing street
1114.04   Undue hardships may modify requirements
Statutory reference:
   Lost or destroyed records, see R.C. §§ 711.34 et seq.
   Lots outside municipal boundaries, see R.C. §§ 711.24 et seq.
   Original plats, see R.C. §§ 711.01 et seq.
   Plat and subdivision defined, see R.C. § 711.001
   Revision of plats, see R.C. §§ 711.28 et seq.
   Street dedication and acceptance, see R.C. § 723.03
   Vacating or altering plats on application of owner, see R.C. §§ 711.17 et
seq.
§ 1114.01 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS MAY BE MODIFIED.
   The general principles of design and the minimum requirements for the laying
out of subdivisions may be varied by the Commission in the case of a
subdivision large enough to constitute a more or less self-contained
neighborhood to be developed in accordance with a comprehensive plan
safeguarded by appropriate restrictions, which in the judgment of the
Commission make adequate provision for all essential community requirements;
provided, however, that no modification shall be granted by the Commission
which would conflict with the proposals of the Official Thoroughfare Plan or
with other features of the Comprehensive Development Plan, or with the intent
and purpose of the general principles of design and minimum requirements as
defined in these Subdivision Regulations.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1114.02 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS MAY BE EXEMPT.
   In the case of a minor subdivision situated in a locality where conditions
are well defined, the Commission may exempt the subdivider from complying with
some of the requirements stipulated in
Chapters 1103 and
1105 pertaining to the preparation of the preliminary plat.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1114.03 SUBDIVISION OF FIVE PARCELS OR LESS ALONG EXISTING STREET.
   (a)   A proposed division of a parcel of land along an existing public
street, not involving the opening, widening or extension of any street or road
and involving no more than five lots after the original tract has been
completely subdivided, may be submitted to the City Engineer for approval. If
the City Engineer, as the authorized representative of the Planning Commission,
is satisfied that the proposed division is not contrary to applicable platting,
subdividing or zoning regulations, the City Engineer shall, within 20 working
days after the original submission, approve the proposed division and, on
presentation of a conveyance of the parcel, shall stamp the same “Approved by
the City Planning Commission, Mason, Ohio, NO PLAT REQUIRED” and shall sign it
as the authorized representative of the Planning Commission. For his or her
review, the City Engineer shall require the submission by the subdivider of an
application obtained from the Engineering and Building Department, a fee as
noted in §
205.01, a survey plat, a legal description of the land or a survey completed by
a registered surveyor and the original deed for signature.
   (b)   If the City Engineer refuses approval of a subdivision without a plat,
the applicant may appeal to the Planning Commission. Additionally, if the City
Engineer is in doubt as to whether or not the subdivision qualifies for
approval without a plat, the City Engineer may refer the question to the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1114.04 UNDUE HARDSHIPS MAY MODIFY REQUIREMENTS.
   In any particular case where the subdivider shows that, by reason of
exceptional topographic or other physical conditions which are not the result
of the action of the subdivider, literal compliance with any requirement of
these Subdivision Regulations would cause practical difficulty or undue
hardship, the Commission may relax the requirement to the extent deemed just
and proper, so as to relieve the difficulty or hardship; provided the relief
may be granted without detriment to the public interest and without impairing
the intent of these Subdivision Regulations or the development of the
neighborhood and the community in accordance with the Comprehensive Development
Plan and the Zoning Ordinance. Any modification thus granted shall be entered
in the minutes of the Commission setting forth the reasons justifying the
modification.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
CHAPTER 1115: ACCESS MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
Section
1115.01   Purpose, administration and applicability
1115.02   Components
1115.03   Definitions
1115.04   Roadway classification
1115.05   Access classification
1115.06   Roadway reclassification
1115.07   Access spacing regulations
1115.08   Application procedure
Statutory reference:
   Lost or destroyed records, see R.C. §§ 711.34 et seq.
   Lots outside municipal boundaries, see R.C. §§ 711.24 et seq.
   Original plats, see R.C. §§ 711.01 et seq.
   Plat and subdivision defined, see R.C. § 711.001
   Revision of plats, see R.C. §§ 711.28 et seq.
   Street dedication and acceptance, see R.C. § 723.03
   Vacating or altering plats on application of owner, see R.C. §§ 711.17 et
seq.
§ 1115.01 PURPOSE, ADMINISTRATION AND APPLICABILITY.
   (a)   Access management provides or manages access to land while
simultaneously preserving the flow of traffic on the surrounding road systems
in terms of safety, capacity and speed. Every roadway in a transportation
network has a specific function, which can be broadly stated as either to
provide direct access to abutting land or to provide for through traffic
movement. In this context, it can be stated that the effects of access
management become significant in the case of freeways, arterial streets and
collector streets, where there needs to be a balance between through traffic
movement and the access functions performed by the roadway.
   (b)   In order to promote safe and reasonable access between public roadways
and adjacent land; improve the convenience and ease of movement of travelers on
public roads; and permit reasonable speeds and economy of travel while
maintaining the capacity of the roadway, the location and design of access
points shall be in accordance with the following access management regulations.
These regulations shall apply to all existing, planned or proposed roadways
within the jurisdiction of the city. New or proposed roadways within the city
not identified on the adopted Thoroughfare Plan shall interconnect with the
existing roadway network in a uniform and efficient manner.
   (c)   Even though existing roadways and their accesses do not comply with
the respective access restrictions in their class, for the prevention of the
future breakdown of the balance between mobility and access functions, it is
required that the city follow these regulations for all future access permits.
   (d)   When direct property access (wherever allowable) is permitted to any
roadway, the developer shall bear the cost of the corresponding roadway
improvements required to meet the restrictions defined by the access level of
the respective roadway.
   (e)   The Engineering, Building and Planning Department shall be responsible
for the uniform administration of these regulations, with the approval of the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1115.02 COMPONENTS.
   The following are the key components of the access management regulations:
   (a)   Roadway classification.  Location-based and functional classification
of roadways;
   (b)   Access classification. Classification of different access levels and
their assignment to the roadways in the city;
   (c)   Access spacing regulations. Spacing guidelines for different access
features at different levels of access;
   (d)   Traffic impact study guidelines. Regulations as to when a traffic
impact study is needed and determination of the necessary components. See
Chapter 1116; and
   (e)   Driveway approach and curb cut regulations. Regulations for the
placement and construction of driveway approaches and curb cuts. See
Chapter 1117.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1115.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined.
   ACCESS or ACCESS CONNECTION. Any driveway or other point of entry and/or
exit such as a street, road or thoroughfare, that connects to the general
street system. Where two public roadways intersect, the secondary roadway shall
be considered the access.
   ACCESS CONTROL. The regulation of the number, type and frequency of access
points along a given roadway, and the design standards to which they should
conform.
   ACCESS LEVEL. A numerical designation which defines the magnitude of access
control.
   ACCESS MANAGEMENT PLAN. A roadway design plan which designates access
locations and their design for the purpose of bringing public roadways into
conformance with their access classification to the extent feasible.
   ADT. The annual average two-way daily traffic volume. It represents the
total traffic for the year, divided by 365.
   ALLEY. A narrow roadway intended to provide access to the rear or sides of
lots or buildings and not intended for through traffic.
   ARTERIAL, MAJOR. A multilane roadway, usually divided by a raised median,
that allows for access at at-grade public street intersections; provides
mobility to traffic at moderate to high speeds, volumes and distances; and
serves interregional, intercity and intracity travel demands.
   ARTERIAL, MINOR. A multilane roadway that allows for access at at-grade
public street intersections; restricts direct property access; provides access
and mobility at moderate to high speeds and volumes in rural areas and low to
moderate speeds and volumes in urban areas; and serves intercity, intracity and
intracommunity travel demands.
   COLLECTOR, PRIMARY. A three-lane roadway that allows for access at at-grade
public street intersections, restricts direct property access, provides access
and mobility at moderate speeds and connects local or secondary collector
streets to arterial roadways.
   COLLECTOR, SECONDARY. A two-lane roadway that allows for access at at-grade
public street intersections, restricts direct property access, provides access
and mobility at lower speeds, and connects primary collectors or arterials to
local streets.
   COORDINATED SIGNALS. Two or more signalized intersections that have the same
cycle lengths and are timed to improve the quality of progression from one
signal to the next.
   CURB CUT. The area where a curb is level with the roadway to provide
vehicular access from the roadway to an adjoining property.
   DIVIDED ROADWAY. A roadway with separated areas for traffic in opposite
directions, the separation being indicated by depressed dividing strips, raised
curbing, traffic islands or other physical barriers so constructed as to
prevent or discourage crossover vehicular traffic; or otherwise indicated by
standard pavement markings or other official traffic- control devices as
prescribed in the Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   DRIVEWAY OR PRIVATE ROAD. Every way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   FREEWAY. A divided multilane roadway that allows for access at interchanges
only; provides for through movement of traffic at high speeds, over long
distances; and serves interstate, intrastate, interregional, intercity and
intracity (in urbanized and metropolitan areas) travel demands.
   FUNCTIONAL ROADWAY CLASSIFICATION. A classification system that defines a
public roadway according to its purposes and hierarchy in the local or
statewide roadway system.
   GRADE SEPARATION. A crossing of two roadways, a roadway and a railroad, or
roadway and a pedestrian walkway or bike path; where neither facility
interferes with the operation of the other because of their differences in
elevation.
   INTERCHANGE. A facility that provides ramps for access movements between
intersecting roadways that are separated in grade. The ramps and any structures
used to accomplish the movement of traffic between the roadways are considered
part of the INTERCHANGE.
   LATERAL ACCESS. The first access point on a given street, in relation to its
nearest street intersection. (See
Figure 1115.)
   LATERAL ACCESS REGULATIONS. The rules which regulate the minimum distance of
the first driveway on either side of an intersection. (See
Figure 1115.)
   LEVEL OF SERVICE (LOS). A qualitative measure describing a range of traffic
operating conditions such as travel speed and time, freedom to maneuver,
traffic interruptions and comfort and convenience as experienced and perceived
by motorists and passengers. Six levels are defined from A to F, with A
representing the best range of conditions and F the worst. See
Table 1116 in
Chapter 1116.
FIGURE 1115 - LATERAL ACCESS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c92b507198cac9540f9ff13dca280883e1007fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3829.jpg]
 
   LOCAL STREET.  A two-lane roadway that allows for access at at-grade public
street intersections, permits direct property access and carries traffic at low
speeds to and from collector streets.
   MEDIAN. The portion of a roadway separating the opposing traffic flows.
   PRIVATE ROAD. See DRIVEWAY.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A general term denoting land, property or the interest
therein, usually in the configuration of a strip acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, RIGHT-OF-WAY includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch and slopes extending to the right-of-way
limits under the control of the state or city.
   ROAD. A roadway.
   ROADWAY. The paved area between the edges of the right-of-way bounding every
public way and that is to be used for vehicular traffic. Unpaved and paved
shoulders are included in a ROADWAY.
   ROUTE. A roadway.
   SIGNAL. A traffic control signal.
   SIGNALIZATION. Installing or modifying a traffic control signal.
   SIGNAL PROGRESSION. The progressive movement of traffic at a planned rate of
speed, without stopping, through adjacent signalized locations within a traffic
control system.
   STREET. A roadway.
   THOROUGHFARE. A roadway.
   TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY (TIS). A study that is required to be completed
according to the conditions specified in §
1116.02. The purpose and need for the TIS is to determine more precisely the
impacts of the access usage; to mitigate these impacts through the proper
location, design and construction of access connection(s); and to ensure the
continued functional and operational integrity of the roadway.
   TRAFFIC VOLUME GENERATOR. A measure of the amount of traffic, as shown in
Table 1115.01.
 
Table 1115.01 - Traffic Volume Generators
Level  Peak Hour Trip Generation Qualifier ADT - Daily Trip Generation
       (Both Ingress and Egress)           (Both Ingress and Egress)
Low    Less than 100 (<100)      AND       Less than 1,000 (<1,000)
Medium Less than 200 (<200)      AND       Less than 2,000 (<2,000)
High   200 or more (200)         OR        2,000 or more (2,000)
 
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1115.04 ROADWAY CLASSIFICATION.
   The roadways of the city are classified based on their location, function
and desired level of access control. The classifications are as follows.
   (a)   Location based roadway classification. The roadways of the city were
first classified into urban, suburban and rural, based on their location. This
general classification will help in the assignment of access levels and access
standards to roadways based on their location. Please refer to Map 1115.01.
      (1)   Urban can be construed to represent the central city, or other
areas where density exceeds 6,000 persons per square mile;
      (2)   Suburban can be defined as all parts of an urbanized area other
than the central city; and
      (3)   Rural represents all other areas.
   (b)   Functional roadway classification.
       (1)   Functional roadway classification is the most important step
towards access management and control. It defines and regulates the development
and assignment of access levels.
      (2)   The roadway classifications in the city are based primarily upon
traffic volumes and capacity, operating speeds and trip distances. The
classifications also take into consideration the functions performed by the
roadway; traffic flow intensity and characteristics; linkages between activity
centers, land usage and areas served; and system continuity and design
features.
         A.   Freeways. Freeways typically carry high volumes of traffic at
high speeds over long distances. For freeways, maximum priority is assigned to
mobility and minimum priority is assigned to access functions. Freeways are
complete access-controlled roadways with access at interchanges only.
         B.   Major arterial. Major arterials carry a significant amount of
through traffic. They also serve as the primary access channels for traffic
originating from the city to the interstates and vice-versa. Direct property
access may be provided if no reasonable alternate access from an intersecting
street is available. Development patterns in the city suggest a significant
amount of development in and around these roadways, with direct property access
having been granted from these roadways. However, when granting future access
permits, it is important that the stipulations mentioned in these guidelines
are followed, assuring that the grants do not interfere with the primary
function of providing efficient (if possible, uninterrupted) through traffic
movement.
         C.   Minor arterials.
            1.   The primary distinguishing features between major and minor
arterial roadways are the volume of through traffic, operating speeds and the
respective priorities assigned to providing through traffic movement and access
to abutting developments.
            2.   The priority assigned to providing through traffic movement is
marginally lower for minor arterials when compared with that assigned to major
arterials. Also, minor arterial roadways are not necessarily the primary
carriers of traffic to and from the city. They either serve as connectors
between major arterial roadways and collector streets, or act as auxiliary
channels for carrying through traffic to and from remote locations and from
major arterial roadways. Essentially, minor arterial roadways perform the role
of a major arterial roadway in cases where the trip distances are significantly
lower.
         D.   Collector streets. Collector streets serve as connectors for
traffic flow between the arterial roadways and the local streets. Collector
streets are vital links for collection and distribution of traffic to and from
the local streets, with equal priorities assigned to the functions of providing
through traffic flow and access to abutting land developments. Hence it is
important that the city focuses its attention on preserving the functional
integrity of existing collector streets, and also prevent the future roadways
(designated as collectors) from losing the balance between through traffic flow
and access functions. It is essential that collector streets do not carry
excessive volumes of through-traffic. This would defy their purpose as well as
increase the risk of accidents due to excessive speed differentials at
intersections.
            1.   In the roadway classification system, the collector streets of
the city are subdivided into primary collector streets and secondary collector
streets because:
               a.   This helps to account for differences in the length and
extent of different collector streets;
               b.   The trip origins and ends for primary and secondary
collector streets are different from each other;
               c.   This subclassification makes the access management plan
specific, rather than general, to the different roadway types in the city;
               d.   This subclassification also accounts for basic differences
in traffic flow characteristics between primary and secondary collectors; and
               e.   They do not permit residential driveway cuts and restrict
the use of commercial driveway cuts.
            2.   The inherent characteristics of primary collector streets are
as follows:
               a.   Primary collector streets connect local streets or
secondary collector streets to arterial roadways (major or minor);
               b.   More often than not, the traffic flow pattern along primary
collector streets is such that traffic to and from originates from or ends in
secondary collector streets; the other ends of trips originate from or end in
arterial roadways;
               c.   They usually dissect the land pockets between arterial
streets from one end to the other in such a way that a reasonable amount of
access is provided for the land developments in the respective land pockets;
and
               d.   They are usually longer than the respective adjoining
secondary collector streets or local streets.
            3.   The inherent characteristics of secondary collector streets
are as follows:
               a.   They connect primary collector streets or arterial roadways
to local streets;
               b.   In most cases trip ends originate from or end in local
streets; the other ends of trips originate from or end in either arterial
roadways or in primary collector streets;
               c.   They do not usually span the land pockets between arterial
roadways. There may be exceptions depending on the existence of nearby
collectors that serve as primary collector streets;
               d.   They are usually shorter in length than the respective
primary collectors from which they branch; and
               e.   They restrict direct property access.
         E.   Local streets. The purpose of local streets is to provide direct
access to abutting properties and land developments. The most important
function for these streets is access provision, while through-traffic movement
on these streets is secondary. Any access restrictions imposed on local streets
will be only for safety purposes. All streets in the city that are not
otherwise classified are local streets.
         F.   Alleys and private streets. An alley provides access to the rear
or sides of lots or buildings. Alleys are not intended to provide access for
through traffic. Private streets provide access to individual private
properties that are located within a large tract of private property (e.g.,
condominiums and business parks).
Refer to
Table 1115.02, which provides typical characteristics for each of the roadway
classes, and to Map 1115.02.
Table 1115.02 - Functional Roadway Classification System
Roadway Type Roadway Characteristics
Posted Speed Traffic         Direct
Limited in   Characteristics Property General Design Operational Public Access
mph          and Roadway     Access   Features       Standards   Provision
             Function
Table 1115.02 - Functional Roadway Classification System
Roadway   Roadway Characteristics
Type
Posted    Traffic         Direct         General
Speed     Characteristics Property       Design      Operational Public Access Provision
Limited   and Roadway     Access         Features    Standards
in mph    Function
                                                                 All opposing
                          High volumes                           traffic
                          of traffic at                          movements
                          high speeds                            physically
                          over long                              separated by
                          distances.                             grade
                          Serves                                 separations
                          interstate,    Not         Multi-lane; and medians. Only through
Freeway   Minimum of 55   intrastate,    permitted   Median      Minimum      interchanges
                          interregional                          interchange
                          and intracity                          spacing:
                          (in urbanized                          urban/
                          and                                    suburban
                          metropolitan                           areas: 1
                          areas) travel                          mile; rural
                          demand.                                areas: 3
                                                                 miles
                                                                 Signalized
                                                                 intersection
                          Provides                               spacing;
                          mobility to                            urban areas:
          Maximum of 45   traffic at     Not                     1/2 mile (1/
          in areas        moderate to    permitted               4 mile when
          without         high speeds,   or                      there is not
Major     signals, and 35 volumes and    restricted; Multi-lane  other        At-grade
arterial  in areas with   distances.     when        with median reasonable   public street
          signals (may be Serves         permitted,  preferred   access);     intersections
          lower in highly interregional, see note                rural areas:
          urbanized       intercity and  (a)                     1 mile (1/
          sections)       intracity                              2 mile when
                          travel.                                there is no
                                                                 other
                                                                 reasonable
                                                                 access)
                          Provides
                          access and
                          mobility at                            Signalized
                          moderate to                            intersection
                          high speeds                            spacing;
                          and volumes                            urban areas:
                          for moderate                           1/2 mile (1/
                          to short                               4 mile when
          35-45 in        distances in                           there is no
Minor     undeveloped     rural areas,                           other        At-grade
arterial  areas, and 25-  and low to     Restricted  Multi-lane  reasonable   public street
          35 in developed moderate                               access);     intersections
          areas           speeds and                             rural areas:
                          volumes in                             1 mile (1/
                          urban areas.                           2 mile when
                          Serves                                 there is no
                          intercity,                             other
                          intracity and                          reasonable
                          intra-                                 access)
                          community
                          travel.
                          Provides                               Signalized
                          access and                             intersection
                          mobility at                            spacing;
                          moderate                               urban areas:
          Minimum of 25-  speeds, with                           1/2 mile (1/
          35, depending   equal priority                         4 mile when
Primary   on the extent   assigned to    See note    2-lane with there is no  At-grade
collector of development  both           (b)         turning     reasonable   public street
          and the         functions.                 movements   access);     intersections
          frequency of    Connects local                         rural areas:
          cross streets   or secondary                           1 mile (1/
                          collector                              2 mile when
                          streets to                             there is no
                          arterials.                             reasonable
                                                                 access)
                                                                 Signalized
                          Provides                               intersection
                          access and                             spacing;
                          mobility at                            urban areas:
                          lower speeds,                          1/2 mile (1/
                          with equal                             4 mile when
          25-35,          priority       Restricted; 2-lane with there is no  At-grade
Secondary depending on    assigned to    see note    turning     reasonable   public street
collector safety          both           (c)         movements   access);     intersections
          requirements    functions.                             rural areas:
                          Connects                               1 mile (1/
                          primary                                2 mile when
                          collectors or                          there is no
                          arterials to                           other
                          local streets.                         reasonable
                                                                 access)
                          Mainly
                          provides local
                          land access.                           All
                          Carries                                standards
Local                     traffic from                           are subject  At-grade
street    Maximum of 25   and to local   Permitted   2-lane      only to      public street
                          land                                   case-by-case intersections
                          developments,                          safety
                          to and from                            requirements
                          collector
                          streets.
                          Provide access                         All
                          to the rear or                         standards
                          sides of lots              1- or 2-    are subject  At-grade
Alleys    Maximum of 15   or buildings.  Permitted   lane        only to      public street
                          Not intended                           case-by-case intersections
                          for through-                           safety
                          traffic.                               requirements
                          Provide local
                          land access.                           All
                          Carries                                standards
Private                   traffic from                           are subject  At-grade
street    Maximum of 25   and to         Permitted   2-lane      only to      public street
                          developments,                          case-by-case intersections
                          to and from                            safety
                          collector                              requirements
                          streets.
Notes:
(a)   When direct property access is provided to multi-lane divided major arterials, it is
limited to right and left turn entry and right turn exit only. Left turn movements out of
the activity center shall not be permitted.
(b)   Residential driveways are not permitted and commercial driveways are restricted by
number, site distance and spacing.
(c)   Restricted by volume, speed, sight distance and spacing.
 
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1115.05 ACCESS CLASSIFICATION.
   An access classification system involves the development of different access
levels and the consequent assignment of allowable access levels to the roadways
under consideration. Each roadway type is assigned an access control level
according to the number, type and frequency of access points along the roadway,
the volume and speed of traffic along the roadway, and the design standards
required for safe and efficient traffic movement. The correlation of functional
roadway classification and access levels for the city is shown in
Table 1115.03. The specifications for each access level are shown in
Table 1115.04. Refer also to Map 1115.03.
Table 1115.03 - Roadway Access Classification
Functional Roadway Classification Access Level Comments
Table 1115.03 - Roadway Access Classification
Functional Roadway         Access Level Comments
Classification
Freeways                   1
                                        Depends on the turning
                                        restrictions imposed on access
                                        points. The turning restrictions
Major arterials            2 and 3      are decided based upon roadway
                                        geometry; roadway classification
                                        and access level; and required
                                        degree of access control.
                                        Depends on the turning
                                        restrictions imposed upon access
                                        points. The turning restrictions
Minor arterials            3            are decided based upon roadway
                                        geometry, roadway classification
                                        and access level, and required
                                        degree of access control.
                                        Primary collector streets have an
Collector streets          4 and 5      access level of 4; secondary
                                        collector streets have an access
                                        level of 5.
Local streets              6
Alleys and private streets 7
 
Table 1115.04 - Roadway Access Level Specifications
             Roadway                                  Direct   General Design
Access Level Classification Description Access Sketch Property Features
                                                      Access
Table 1115.04 - Roadway Access Level Specifications
Access                                                                                                                               Direct     General
Level  Roadway Classification                    Description                               Access Sketch                             Property   Design
                                                                                                                                     Access     Features
                                                                                           [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                   Multi-
1      Freeway                                   Access at interchanges only.              c92b507198cac9540f9ff13dca280883e1007fac/ Not        lane;
                                                 Uninterrupted flow.                       IMAGES/0-0-0-3959.jpg]                    permitted  Median
                                                                                                                                                divider
                                                 Right turn out, left and right turn in                                              Not
       Major arterials (Left turn out            (no left turn out); Interrupted flow in   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        permitted  Multi-
2      prohibition is enforceable only in the    one direction. Right turn deceleration    c92b507198cac9540f9ff13dca280883e1007fac/ or         lane;
       case of a divided roadway.)               lane required. Roadway entry acceleration IMAGES/0-0-0-3961.jpg]                    restricted Median
                                                 lanes optional.                                                                     when       divider
                                                                                                                                     permitted
                                                 Right and left turn in and out with left
                                                 turn lane in and out required.            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        Restricted Multi-
3      Minor arterials                           Interrupted flow in both directions.      c92b507198cac9540f9ff13dca280883e1007fac/ when       lane
                                                 Right turn deceleration lanes are         IMAGES/0-0-0-3963.jpg]                    permitted
                                                 recommended.
                                                 Right and left turn in and out with left  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        Restricted 2 lanes
4      Primary collectors                        turn lane in and out required.            c92b507198cac9540f9ff13dca280883e1007fac/ when       with
                                                 Interrupted flow in both directions.      IMAGES/0-0-0-3965.jpg]                    permitted  turning
                                                                                                                                                movements
                                                                                                                                     Restricted
                                                                                                                                     by volume, 2 lanes
                                                 Right and left turn in and out with left  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        speed,     with
5      Secondary collectors                      turn lane in and out optional.            c92b507198cac9540f9ff13dca280883e1007fac/ sight      turning
                                                 Interrupted flow in both directions.      IMAGES/0-0-0-3967.jpg]                    distance   movements
                                                                                                                                     and
                                                                                                                                     spacing
6 and  All local and private road ways and       Right and left turn in and out (Safety    [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
7      alleys.                                   requirements only)                        c92b507198cac9540f9ff13dca280883e1007fac/ Permitted  2 lanes
                                                                                           IMAGES/0-0-0-3969.jpg]
       [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        —        - - -
Legend c92b507198cac9540f9ff13dca280883e1007fac/ c92b507198cac9540f9ff13dca280883e1007fac/ c92b507198cac9540f9ff13dca280883e1007fac/            
       IMAGES/0-0-0-3971.jpg]                    IMAGES/0-0-0-3973.jpg]                    IMAGES/0-0-0-3975.jpg]                    Required   Optional
       Interchange                               Property/Development                      Turn, Deceleration or Acceleration Lane
 
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1115.06 ROADWAY RECLASSIFICATION.
   The roadway classifications are subject to change, as surrounding land uses
change. As a particular roadway’s reclassification is necessary, the proposed
classification shall be recommended for approval by the Planning Commission and
then approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1115.07 ACCESS SPACING REGULATIONS.
   Access spacing regulations establish standards of access spacing for the
different access levels. Different sets of standards apply to interchanges and
signalized intersections, unsignalized intersections and driveways, median
openings and to lateral access restrictions.
   (a)   Interchanges and signalized intersections. The very nature of the
access spacing guidelines for interchanges and signalized intersections makes
it impossible to require that all spacing distances be exact. Roadway and
access designs should conform to the specifications in
Table 1115.05 as closely as possible. When a new interchange or signalized
intersection is proposed, the applicant shall provide justification for the
proposed location. Final approval shall be obtained from Planning Commission.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
Table 1115.05 - Access Spacing Regulations - Interchanges and Signalized
Intersections
                                       Interchanges (1)         Signalized
                                                                Intersection
                                       Minimum Spacing in Miles Minimum Spacing
Access Level General      Posted Speed                          (in feet) at
             Roadway Type Limit in mph                          the
                                       Urban/ Suburban Rural    Corresponding
                                                                Speeds
Table 1115.05 - Access Spacing Regulations - Interchanges and Signalized
Intersections
                                        Interchanges (1)          Signalized
                                                                  Intersection
                                        Minimum Spacing in Miles  Minimum
Access Level General      Posted Speed                            Spacing (in
             Roadway Type Limit in mph  Urban/                    feet) at the
                                        Suburban     Rural        Corresponding
                                                                  Speeds

1            Freeways     Minimum of 55 1            3            NA
                          45 rural                                2,000
                          40 suburban                             1,500
             Major        35 suburban/  NA (Optional NA (Optional 1,000
2            arterials    urban         where deemed where deemed
                          30 highly     necessary)   necessary)
                          developed                               1,000
                          urban areas
                          40 suburban                             1,500
                          35 suburban/                            1,000
             Major and    urban
3            minor        30 urban      NA           NA           1,000
             arterials    25 highly
                          developed                               1,000
                          urban areas
                          35 suburban/                            1,500
             Primary      urban
4            collectors   30 urban      NA           NA           1,000
                          25 developed                            750
                          urban
                          35 rural/                               1,500
                          suburban
5            Secondary    30 suburban/  NA           NA           1,000
             collectors   urban
                          25 developed                            750
                          urban
             Local and
6 and 7      private      25 and under  NA           NA           NS
             roads,
             alleys
Notes:
(1)   NA - Not applicable; NS - Not specified
 
   (b) Unsignalized intersections and driveways. Minimum spacing regulations
have been set for unsignalized driveways and roadways. The intent of these
regulations is to avoid significant delays and/or accidents caused by frequent
access points along a given roadway. The spacing regulations are based upon the
type of traffic volume generator or land use, and its location classification
(urban, suburban, rural) along a given roadway. To determine the roadway
location classification, refer to Map 1115.01. Refer to
Table 1115.06 for the specific development standards.
Table 1115.06 - Access Spacing Regulations - Unsignalized Intersections and
Driveways
                     Minimum Spacing for Unsignalized Driveways and Roadways
                     (in feet)
                     Distances based on Roadway Locations, Traffic Volume
Roadway Posted Speed Generators1 and Speed Limits
Type    Limit in mph Urban Roadway   Suburban Roadway Rural Roadway
                     Low Medium High Low Medium High  Low Medium High
Table 1115.06 - Access Spacing Regulations - Unsignalized Intersections and
Driveways
                       Minimum Spacing for Unsignalized Driveways and Roadways
                       (in feet)
           Posted      Distances based on Roadway Locations, Traffic Volume
Roadway    Speed Limit Generators1 and Speed Limits
Type       in mph      Urban Roadway   Suburban Roadway Rural Roadway
                       Low Medium High Low Medium High  Low Medium High
           50                                           250 400    500
Major      45                                           225 350    450
arterials  40                          250 350    400
           35          200 300    350  175 300    350
           30          150 250    300
           50                                           200 300    400
           45                                           200 275    350
Minor      40                          150 250    350
arterials  35          175 250    300  150 200    300
           30          125 200    250
           25          100 150    200
           45                                           150 250    300
Primary    40                                           150 200    250
collectors 35          150 150    200  150 200    250
           30          150 150    200  150 200    250
           25          150 150    150
           40                                           150 200    250
Secondary  35                          150 200    250   150 200    250
collectors 30          150 150    150  150 150    150
           25          150 150    150
Notes:
1   Traffic volume generators are defined in
Table 1115.01.
 
   (c)   Median openings. Minimum spacing regulations have been developed to
regulate the distance between median openings. These regulations are intended
to:
      (1)   Ensure that vehicles making turns through the median openings will
not cause significant delays; and
      (2)   Ensure a safer, uncongested through movement along the divided
roadway. Minimum spacing regulations, based upon roadway type, are listed in
Table 1115.07.
Table 1115.07 - Access Spacing Regulations - Median Openings
Access Level Roadway Type Spacing Criteria (in feet) for Unsignalized Median
                          Openings on Divided Roadways1
Table 1115.07 - Access Spacing Regulations - Median Openings
Access Level Roadway Type         Spacing Criteria (in feet) for Unsignalized
                                  Median Openings on Divided Roadways1
1            Freeways             Not Applicable
2,3          Major arterials      650
3            Minor arterials      650
4            Primary collectors   300
5            Secondary collectors 250
6            Local streets        250
7            Private streets      Not Applicable
Additional requirements:
(1)   Median openings shall be provided at all signalized at-grade
intersections and at all unsignalized junctions of arterial and collector
streets.
(2)   The spacing of median openings for signalized driveways should reflect
traffic signal coordination requirements and the storage space needed for left
turns.
(3)   Applications for a median opening for a driveway must be approved by
Planning Commission.
 
   (d)   Lateral access regulations.
      (1)   Lateral access regulations have been developed to regulate the
distance between the first driveway or unsignalized street on either side of an
intersection.
      (2)   Lateral access regulations are intended to:
         A.   Provide for sufficient vehicle stacking distance at intersections
so that vehicles backed up at a traffic signal will not block the use of the
driveway;
         B.   Ensure that vehicles turning left through an intersection and
into the lateral access do not back up into the intersection and block through
movements;
         C.   Ensure that vehicles turning out of driveways have sufficient
time to either:
            1.   Cross the traffic lanes with a left turn movement; or
            2.   Turn right and accelerate sufficiently, without risk of
conflict from a car coming around the corner.
      (3)   Minimum distances, based upon roadway type and development type are
listed in
Table 1115.08.
Table 1115.08 - Access Spacing Regulations - Lateral Accesses
Roadway Type       Minimum Distance Required Between Lateral Access
                   and Intersection (in feet)
Low Traffic Volume Medium Traffic Volume High Traffic Volume Generator
Generator          Generator
Table 1115.08 - Access Spacing Regulations - Lateral Accesses
Roadway Type         Minimum Distance Required Between Lateral Access and
                     Intersection (in feet)
Low Traffic Volume   Medium Traffic Volume High Traffic Volume Generator
Generator            Generator
Major arterials      150                   200 350
Minor arterials      100                   150 200
Primary collectors   100                   150 200
Secondary collectors 100                   150 200
Additional requirements:
(1)   When the left turn storage lane for the intersection (on the
roadway abutting the generator) is longer than the lateral access
requirement (above), left turn movements to and from the generator shall
be prohibited. This will prevent delays for those vehicles making left
turn movements at the intersection that are caused by vehicles turning
left into the generator from the left turn storage lane. This will also
prevent potential accidents and/or delays caused by vehicles turning left
from the generator and crossing the left turn storage lane.
(2)   If the intersection includes two different roadway types, then the
greater of the two distances shall be used.
(3)   Lateral access requirements do not apply to roadway types that are
not listed above.
 
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1115.08 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (a)   All driveway approaches and curb cuts are subject to the regulations
in this chapter and in
Chapter 1117.
   (b)   Determination of application procedure. Any owner or subdivider
intending to apply for the placement of a new roadway, driveway approach or
curb cut within the city shall first inquire of the City Engineer as to the
type of application procedure required. The City Engineer shall consider street
classification, access type, configuration of the access point, and the zoning
of the property in order to determine that either a right-of-way permit is
required, or that the application for the roadway, driveway approach or curb
cut shall be submitted as part of the subdivision process as described in
Chapter 1103 or as part of a site plan as described in
Chapter 1135 or as part of the PUD concept plan as described in
Chapter 1161.
   (c)   Right-of-way permit. If, according to division (b) above, the City
Engineer determines that a permit to work in the right-of-way is required, the
permit shall be filed according to
Chapter 1117.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
CHAPTER 1116: TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY REGULATIONS
Section
1116.01   Purpose
1116.02   When required
1116.03   Study area
1116.04   Site plan
1116.05   Horizon years
1116.06   Time period analyzed
1116.07   Site and non-site analysis
1116.08   On-site planning and parking principles
1116.09   Joint access and cross access
1116.10   Site traffic generation
1116.11   Site traffic distribution
1116.12   Analysis and level of service
1116.13   Highway capacity calculations
1116.14   Meeting of City Engineer and developer
1116.15   Recommendations for improvements
1116.16   Improvement costs
1116.17   Traffic impact study report outline
Cross-reference:
   Designation of through streets and erection of stop or yield signs, see §
313.02
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of prima-facie speed limits, see R.C. §§ 4511.21, 4511.22(A),
4511.23
   Designation of through streets and erection of stop or yield signs, see R.C.
§ 4511.65
   Local traffic-control devices, see R.C. § 4511.11
   Power to designate highway as included in a freeway, expressway or thruway,
see R.C. § 4511.011
   Power to enact local traffic regulations, see R.C. §§ 4511.07, 4511.61
§ 1116.01 PURPOSE.
   A traffic impact study (TIS) allows the city to foresee, before the approval
of a proposed development, the impact it will have on adjacent roads,
intersections and site access driveways. It provides guidance for site access,
on-site circulation, parking and off-site improvements necessary to permit the
street system to operate at a satisfactory level of service.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1116.02 WHEN REQUIRED.
   To promote efficient access management, a traffic impact study for a
proposed development shall be submitted with the site plan or preliminary plat
when the development meets any of the following criteria:
   (a)   The proposed development generates 100 or more added new peak hour
trips to and/or from the site during the adjacent roadway’s peak hours or
during the development’s peak hour and the proposed development generates more
than 1,000 trips daily;
   (b)   The development is expected to reduce the level of service on adjacent
roadways and/or intersections to below “C;”
   (c)   A level of service lower than “C” already exists on a roadway that is
adjacent to the proposed development;
   (d)   The development is within 500 feet of a high-accident (20 or more per
year) intersection or section of roadway;
   (e)   One or more of the proposed access drives to the development is within
500 feet of a public roadway intersection or within 250 feet of a drive that is
a high traffic volume generator;
   (f)   The traffic generated by the proposed development will increase the
ADT by 25% or more on roadways in adjacent neighborhoods, as determined by the
City Engineer;
   (g)   Traffic volumes of 10,000 ADT or higher exist on roadways adjacent to
the proposed development; and
   (h)   The City Engineer determines that other conditions exist in the
vicinity of the proposed development that may be negatively impacted by the
development. Final determination of the conditions shall be agreed upon by the
City Engineer and the developer.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1116.03 STUDY AREA.
   The minimum study area shall include all proposed and existing site access
locations and major intersections (signalized and unsignalized) adjacent to the
site. Depending on the overall size of the development, as well as the nature
of the development, the City Engineer may require that additional areas be
included in the study, based upon, but not limited to, local or site-specific
issues, local policy and impacts that are likely to occur to residential areas.
Final determination of the study area shall be agreed upon by the City Engineer
and the developer.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1116.04 SITE PLAN.
   An appropriately scaled site plan shall be submitted as part of the traffic
impact study. The site plan shall include:
   (a)   Adjacent public roadway(s), including the existing traffic lanes and
their configuration;
   (b)   All public roads and private access driveways that exist or are
proposed within 500 feet beyond the limits of the site property. This distance
may be reduced by the City Engineer, depending upon the site location;
   (c)   All proposed access points to the public road system, including
pavement markings; and
   (d)   Internal traffic flow, stacking areas and parking.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1116.05 HORIZON YEARS.
   The horizon years are the years for which the traffic impact study are to be
characterized. The study shall address traffic conditions:
   (a)   On opening day;
   (b)   At the anticipated completion year of the proposed development at full
build-out and occupancy; and
   (c)   At the completion of each major phase, if the development is to occur
in phases.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1116.06 TIME PERIOD ANALYZED.
   In order to ensure adequate roadway operation and sufficient driveway, turn
lane and queuing capacity, the traffic impact study shall analyze traffic:
   (a)   (1)   At street peak hours. The peak hours of the highway system are
generally a one hour period between:
         A.   7:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. on weekdays;
         B.   4:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays; and
         C.   12:00 noon and 2:00 p.m. on Saturdays.
      (2)   Changes in peak hours can occur over time.
   (b)   At the site directional peak hours;
   (c)   Hours for which a land use classification promotes the highest trip
generation during times other than weekday peak hours. The land use
classifications include, but are not limited to, schools, theaters, churches,
shopping centers and discount stores; and
   (d)   Other hours deemed necessary by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1116.07 SITE AND NON-SITE ANALYSIS.
   The impacts and transportation infrastructure needs shall be assessed
separately for the horizon level of service both with and without site
development. The separate studies shall include:
   (a)   All significant developments within the study area that have been
approved or are likely to occur by the specified horizon year;
   (b)   The impacts of off-site development;
   (c)   The transportation improvements required for the approximate
proportion of the improvements attributable to the traffic generated by the
proposed development;
   (d)   (1)   Non-site traffic volume estimates for the horizon years in the
study. Non-site traffic has neither an origin from, nor destination to, the
subject site. The traffic volume conditions of the study area in the horizon
years, assuming the proposed site is not developed or redeveloped, must be
established.
      (2)   Non-site traffic volumes shall be calculated using the “build-up”
method to provide accurate and easily traced results. The “build-up” method is
a method of determining peak hour factors for non-site traffic by building the
opening day traffic volumes and the horizon year(s) traffic volumes if the site
were not developed. This is accomplished by adding or building, the following
items:
         A.   Existing traffic volumes in the area;
         B.   Traffic to be generated by approved and anticipated developments
in the study area;
         C.   Estimated growth in through traffic generated from outside the
study area; and
         D.   If the subject site is being redeveloped, existing site-
generated traffic shall be subtracted from the total of these items.
   (e)   A determination of the level-of-service “D” for future base
conditions. Future base conditions to assess the traffic operations and needed
improvements in the horizon years without the subject development in place must
first be determined.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1116.08 ON-SITE PLANNING AND PARKING PRINCIPLES.
   The internal design of the development shall provide sufficient traffic
capacity and queuing space, and shall provide for distribution of automobiles
to and from parking spaces, pick-up/dropoff points and drive-through lanes. The
internal design has a direct bearing on the adequacy of site access points. The
identification and design of access points between the site and the external
roadway system is directly related to both the directional distribution of site
traffic and the internal circulation of the facility. Simply providing access
to a site by means of curb cuts does not necessarily mean that access to the
development has been adequately addressed. The quality of the internal site
circulation and design has a direct impact on the quality of traffic flow in
and around the site development and on public safety.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1116.09 JOINT ACCESS AND CROSS ACCESS.
   Joint access and cross access by two or more properties shall be considered.
Joint access reduces the number of driveway openings and turning movement
conflicts. Cross access permits motorists to travel to adjacent properties
without first exiting out of one commercial access onto the public roadway and
then reentering adjacent commercial access driveways.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1116.10 SITE TRAFFIC GENERATION.
   (a)   In determining the amount of traffic to be generated by the proposed
development, trip generation rates or equations from the latest edition of Trip
Generation, a publication from the Institute of Transportation Engineers, shall
be used. The proposed development shall be categorized by the specific land use
classification contained in Trip Generation. If specific trip rates are not
available for a particular development, the method of trip rate determination
shall be agreed upon by the City Engineer and the developer.
   (b)   Documentation shall be provided to verify the reason for any variation
from normally recognized generation rates or equations and for assumptions
unique to the development being studied. Trip generation rates must be
defensible using a combination of available data and professional judgment.
   (c)   A table shall be provided in the study report showing the categories
and quantities of land uses, with the corresponding trip generation rates or
equations and resulting number of trips. The reason for using the rates or
equations shall be documented in the report. For large developments that will
be phased in over time, the table shall also provide trip generation expected
at each significant phase.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1116.11 SITE TRAFFIC DISTRIBUTION.
   (a)   The impact of the proposed project on intersections and roadways
within the study area shall be analyzed by distributing the traffic and
assigning it to the roadway. The directions from which traffic will approach
and depart the site can vary depending on several factors, including the type
and size of the proposed development, the surrounding and/or competing land
uses, and the conditions on the surrounding street system. Trip assignments
shall be made considering logical routings, available roadway capacities, left
turns at critical intersections, and projected and perceived minimum travel
times.
   (b)   An influence area shall be designed to assist in the distribution of
traffic. The influence area shall include surrounding communities and roadways
from which traffic is expected to be attracted. This is normally determined by
a marketing study. If no study exists, the influence area shall be determined
based on reasonable estimates. Existing trip distribution data from similar,
developed sites within the immediate vicinity may be used for making
assignments.
   (c)   Many land uses such as fast food restaurants, service stations,
restaurants and shopping centers not only generate new trips, but also attract
trips that were already passing by in the traffic stream. The procedure
described in the Institute of Transportation Engineers’ Trip Generation shall
be used to account for these “pass-by” trips.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1116.12 ANALYSIS AND LEVEL OF SERVICE.
   (a)   Capacity analyses shall be performed on each of the street and site
intersections (signalized and unsignalized) in the study area. For each
analysis period being studied, projected traffic volumes for site and non-site
traffic shall be analyzed and used for capacity analysis for future conditions.
LEVEL OF SERVICE (LOS) is the street’s ability to carry traffic in terms of
average stopped delay per vehicle. The LOS analysis procedure set forth in the
most recent issue of the Highway Capacity Manual, published by the Highway
Research Board, shall be used to evaluate traffic operating conditions.
Table 1116 - Traffic Levels of Service1
Level of Service Average Stopped Delay per Vehicle
Table 1116 - Traffic Levels of Service1
Level of Service Average Stopped Delay per Vehicle
A                5.0 seconds or less
B                5.1 to 15.0 seconds
C                15.1 to 25.0 seconds
D                25.1 to 40.0 seconds
E                40.1 to 60 seconds
F                More than 60 seconds
Notes:
1   Table data is current for the date this chapter went into effect.
 
   (b)   The city’s goal for the operation of its roadways is to maintain the
best level of service possible. An overall level of service of “D” shall be the
minimum acceptable. The level of service for an intersection is computed as a
weighted average of the vehicle delay. An intersection may have an overall LOS
of or “D” and have individual movements of LOS “E” or “F.” As a result, all
movements should be analyzed individually. Recommendations shall include
modifications to reduce delay and increase capacity on the critical movements.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1116.13 HIGHWAY CAPACITY CALCULATIONS.
   Peak hour factors (PHF) shall be calculated based on existing count data for
signalized and non-signalized intersections and roadways. For analyzing future
conditions, a peak hour factor of .90 shall be used unless agreed upon by the
City Engineer. For existing signals that will be analyzed, it is the
responsibility of the developer to obtain and use the existing cycle lengths
and signal phasing from the city, unless otherwise agreed to by the City
Engineer.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1116.14 MEETING OF CITY ENGINEER AND DEVELOPER.
   The developer shall meet with the City Engineer, or his or her designated
representatives, to discuss the following variables:
   (a)   Right turn on red assignments;
   (b)   Grades;
   (c)   Lane widths;
   (d)   Percent of trucks;
   (e)   Pedestrian movements; and
   (f)   Any deviations from the proscribed procedures described herein, and
agreed to by the City Engineer and the developer. The deviations shall be noted
in a memo of understanding from the City Engineer to the developer. Unless so
noted in the letter, the standard practices described herein shall be used.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1116.15 RECOMMENDATIONS FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   The traffic impact study shall include recommendations for improvements to
maintain capacity, provide signal capacity, and improve safety to, from and
within the development. These may include, but are not limited to:
   (a)   Intersection recommendations. Modifications to reduce delay and
increase capacity on the critical movements, while not negatively impacting
non-site traffic. The modifications may include, but are not limited to, adding
lanes, removing curb parking, changing signal phasing or timing, and lane use
modifications. A level of service of “D” or better is required;
   (b)   Site driveway recommendations. If site driveways are proposed to be
signalized, they shall be warranted and located for good traffic progression
past the site. Adequate ingress and egress capacity shall be provided. Capacity
of on-site intersections shall be sufficient to prevent traffic that is
entering the site from backing up on the adjacent street; and
   (c)   Acceleration and deceleration lanes. May be required to minimize
potential for accidents due to speed reduction at driveways, even if turn
volume requirements do not require the lanes.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1116.16 IMPROVEMENT COSTS.
   The cost for infrastructure improvements, new traffic signals, modification
of existing traffic signals, traffic signs and pavement markings which are
necessitated by the new development shall by borne by the developer. The city
may participate in the costs if the City Engineer determines the changes will
provide benefits to vehicle or pedestrian traffic not associated with the
proposed development.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1116.17 TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY REPORT OUTLINE.
   The following report outline provides a framework for traffic impact study
reports to the extent they are relevant to the study issues and needs. Topics
not relevant may be omitted; however, additional sections may be warranted
because of specific issues to be addressed, local study requirements and
results of the study.
   Traffic Impact Study Report Outline
   I.   Title Page
      A.   Development’s name
      B.   Development’s location
      C.   Applicant’s name, address, telephone and fax numbers
      D.   Preparer’s name, address, telephone and fax numbers
      E.   Report date
   II.   Table of Contents
   III.   List of Figures, Tables and Appendices
   IV.   Executive Summary
   One to two page maximum summary including the following:
      A.   Site location and study area
      B.   Development description
      C.   Main findings
      D.   Conclusions
      E.   Recommendations
      F.   Memo of understanding to City Engineer
   V.   Proposed Site Development
      A.   Information sources
      B.   Existing zoning
      C.   Land use and anticipated quantity
      D.   Location
      E.   Site plan
      F.   Phasing and timing
   VI.   Area Conditions
      A.   Study area
         1.   Area of influence
         2.   Area of significant impact
      B.   Study area land use
         1.   Existing land use
         2.   Existing zoning
         3.   Anticipated future development
      C.   Site accessibility
         1.   Area roadway system
            a.   Existing
            b.   Future
         2.   Traffic volumes and conditions
         3.   Transit service
         4.   Existing relevant transportation management programs
   VII.   Projected Traffic
      A.   Horizon years
      B.   Peak hours
      C.   Site traffic
         1.   Trip generation
         2.   Trip distribution
         3.   Modal split
         4.   Trip assignment
      D.   Through traffic
         1.   Method of projection
         2.   Non-site traffic for anticipated development in study area
            a.   Method of projection
            b.   Trip generation
            c.   Modal split
            d.   Trip assignment
         3.   Through traffic
         4.   Estimated volumes
      E.   Total traffic
   VIII.   Traffic Analysis
      A.   Site access
         1.   Vehicular
         2.   Service and emergency (check with emergency personnel for
requirements)
         3.   Pedestrian
         4.   Transit
      B.   Capacity and level of service
         1.   Intersections
         2.   Ramps
         3.   Weaving sections
      C.   Traffic safety
         1.   Sight distances
         2.   Impact on current high accident locations
         3.   School zones within study area
         4.   Special circumstances
      D.   Traffic control
         1.   Traffic signals
            a.   Signal warrants
            b.   Signal coordination
         2.   Speed limits
         3.   Other
      E.   Site circulation and parking needs
         1.   On-site parking needs
         2.   Ease of internal circulation
         3.   On-site queuing provisions
         4.   Joint access
   IX.   Improvement Analysis
      A.   Improvement to accommodate base traffic
      B.   Additional improvements to accommodate site traffic
      C.   Alternative improvements
      D.   Status of improvements already funded, programmed or planned
      E.   Evaluation
   X.   Findings
      A.   Site accessibility
      B.   Traffic impacts
      C.   Need for improvements
      D.   Compliance with applicable codes
   XI.   Recommendations
      A.   Site access/circulation plan
      B.   Site access
         1.   On-site circulation and parking
         2.   Off-site circulation
      C.   Roadway improvements (preliminary drawings showing improvements)
         1.   On-site
         2.   Off-site
         3.   Phasing
   XII.   Site Plan
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
CHAPTER 1117: DRIVEWAY APPROACHES AND CURB CUTS
Section
1117.01   Permit required
1117.02   Right-of-way permit and fees
1117.03   Conditions
1117.04   Written notice of conditions
1117.05   Bond
1117.06   Existing driveway approaches/curb cuts
1117.07   Specific land use categories
1117.08   Expense of interference with public facilities
1117.09   Conformance with Thoroughfare Plan, Subdivision Regulations and
Zoning Code
1117.10   Violation
1117.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Cutting paved surfaces, see
Ch. 931
   Excavation barricades and warning lights, see §
521.03
   Material and construction standards, see §
901.01
   Obstruction of sidewalks, see §
521.04
   Tracking mud, dropping loads on streets, see §
339.08
§ 1117.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, corporation or firm, other than an authorized employee of the
city, shall construct a driveway approach connecting to a public street or
right-of-way or cut, break out or remove any curb along any street or other
public way without first obtaining a driveway approach/curb cut permit. Each
day of violation shall constitute a separate offense. Applications for driveway
approach/curb cut permits shall be made at the City Engineer’s office,
according to the application procedures in §
1115.08. The City Engineer or his or her designate may require the construction
plans or drawings with the permit application as he or she deems necessary to:
   (a)   Permit all reviewing authorities to make an intelligent and conclusive
review of the application;
   (b)   Enable the contractor to construct the proposed facility in accordance
with the terms of the permit;
   (c)   Enable the individual responsible for inspection to insure that the
facility is constructed in accordance with the terms of the permit; and
   (d)   Serve as a record of the construction authorized by the permit.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1117.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT AND FEES.
   If, according to §
1115.05 the City Engineer has determined that a permit to work in the right-of-
way is required, the applicant shall submit the completed permit, available
from the City Engineer’s office, together with the fees for the permit. The
fees shall be as established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One -
Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amounts of the fees shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 1117.03 CONDITIONS.
   The City Engineer may impose conditions in the permit upon the construction
of the driveway approach/curb cut, which conditions are designed to facilitate
the safe movement of pedestrian traffic and the safe and expeditious movement
of motor vehicles on the public streets or ways affected by the driveway
approaches/curb cuts. The conditions imposed upon driveway approaches/curb cuts
under this section shall take into consideration the designed speed limit and
sight distance at the location and may include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   (a)   Limitations of the number, size and location of driveway approaches/
curb cuts for any premises to which the permit applies;
   (b)   Requiring the use of alternative means of access such as service or
private drives or frontage roads, to run parallel to the public street or way,
rather than direct connection to the public street or way where the alternate
means are accessible to the premises to which the permit applies and/or
requiring that direct connection of driveway approaches/curb cuts to the public
street or way be limited and used only until alternative means of access such
as service or private drives or frontage roads are made accessible to the
permit premises;
   (c)   Limiting the construction of driveway approaches/curb cuts to only one
public street or way where the premises to which the permit applies abuts more
than one public street or way;
   (d)   Requiring that driveway approaches/curb cuts be marked and/or
constructed to allow only entrance to or only exit from the permit premises;
   (e)   Requiring the construction of safety islands to separate two driveway
approaches/curb cuts;
   (f)   Requiring the construction of right hand and/or left hand
deceleration/acceleration and/or storage lanes which shall be required to be a
minimum of 200 feet each way with a 100-foot taper, or longer as determined by
the traffic impact study. The lanes may be permitted to be decreased, based on
the physical conditions, characteristics and use of the property. The lanes
shall meet the requirements of the city construction standards and include the
appropriate traffic-control devices, including, but not limited to, signals, as
necessary;
   (g)   Requiring the construction of driveway turnaround facilities so that
vehicular traffic can change direction on the permit premises and enter the
roadway in a forward direction;
   (h)   Requiring the consolidation of access points. Major access points on
opposite sides of roadways shall be located opposite each other. If not so
located, turning movement restrictions may be imposed as determined necessary
by the City Engineer. In addition, in order to maximize the efficient
utilization of access points, access drives shall be designed, located and
constructed in a manner to provide and make possible the coordination of access
with and between adjacent properties developed (present or future) for similar
or compatible uses. As a condition of approval for construction, use or reuse
of any access point, the City Engineer may require that unobstructed and
unencumbered access, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, be
provided from any access point to adjacent properties; and
   (i)   Requiring the consolidation of existing access points. Whenever the
use of a parcel of land changes, or two or more parcels of land are assembled
under one purpose, plan, entity or usage, the existing driveway permits shall
become void and the new permit shall be based upon the owner/developer’s plans
to use some existing driveways and/or close or relocate other driveways. Any
new or reauthorized access point must be in compliance with all applicable
sections of this regulation.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1117.04 WRITTEN NOTICE OF CONDITIONS.
   The conditions for the construction of driveway approaches/curb cuts
specified by the City Engineer under this chapter shall be provided in writing
to the applicant at the time the permit is issued.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1117.05 BOND.
   The City Engineer may require a bond from the applicant or property owner to
assure compliance with the conditions imposed under this chapter.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1117.06 EXISTING DRIVEWAY APPROACHES/CURB CUTS.
   In any case in which an application for a building permit includes a change
in the primary use of the premises, or in any case in which there is
construction, reconstruction, enlargement or expansion for larger and
essentially commercial construction which must comply with the formal
administrative procedures for a zoning certificate under §
1135.05, the existing driveway approaches/curb cuts for the premises may be
reviewed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1117.07 SPECIFIC LAND USE CATEGORIES.
   The City Engineer may establish general conditions applicable to the
construction of all driveway approaches/curb cuts for premises within specific
land use categories.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1117.08 EXPENSE OF INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC FACILITIES.
   When a proposed driveway approach/curb cut or any facilities required to be
constructed in conjunction with any driveway approach/curb cut interferes with
street light poles or posts, traffic signal standards, signs, stormwater,
inlets, hydrants, utility poles, fire alarm supports, underground ducts or
pipes, drainage facilities or other necessary street structures, the owner of
the parcel of land served by the driveway approach/curb cut shall pay the
expense of moving and/or altering the structure as determined to be necessary
by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1117.09 CONFORMANCE WITH THOROUGHFARE PLAN, SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS AND
ZONING CODE.
   Proposed driveway approaches and curb cuts or improvements to existing
driveway approaches and curb cuts shall comply with the official Thoroughfare
Plan, the design and improvement standards under these Subdivision Regulations
and with the purpose and restrictions of the Zoning Ordinance before a permit
is issued. Whenever a driveway approach and/or curb cut or improvements to
existing driveway approaches and/or curb cuts embraces any part of a roadway,
the part of the public way shall be platted by the owner or subdivider in the
location and at the width indicated by the aforementioned documents.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1117.10 VIOLATION.
   No person, corporation or firm shall violate any condition specified by the
City Engineer under §
1117.03 in a driveway approach/curb cut permit. Each day of the violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1117.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates §
1117.01 or §
1117.10 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined up to a
maximum of $150 for each offense. Each day’s violation is a separate offense.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
CHAPTER 1118: VALIDITY AND PENALTY
Section
1118.01   Validity and constitutionality
1118.02   Authentication; effective date
1118.03   Repeal of conflicting ordinances
1118.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance violations and penalties, see R.C. § 715.67
§ 1118.01 VALIDITY AND CONSTITUTIONALITY.
   These Subdivision Regulations and the various parts, articles and paragraphs
thereof are hereby declared to be severable. If any article, section,
subsection, paragraph, sentence or phrase of these Subdivision Regulations is
adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
the remainder of these Subdivision Regulations shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1118.02 AUTHENTICATION; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The Clerk of Council is hereby ordered and directed to certify the passage
of these Subdivision Regulations. These Subdivision Regulations shall be
effective 30 days after passage.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1118.03 REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   All other ordinances of the city, inconsistent with the provisions of these
Subdivision Regulations and to the extent of the inconsistency and no further,
are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1118.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of these
Subdivision Regulations shall be subject to a fine or penalty of not more than
$300 or imprisoned for not more than 90 days or both. Each violation shall be
deemed a separate offense and subject to all the penalties hereof.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
CHAPTER 1119: WATER MANAGEMENT AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
Section
1119.01   Definitions
1119.02   General provisions
1119.03   Performance principles and standards
1119.04   Stormwater management provisions
1119.05   Approval procedures
1119.06   Suspension and penalties
1119.99   Penalty
§ 1119.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Building Official of the City of Mason.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. A person designated by and representing the city, also
referred to as the Inspector for purposes of this chapter.
   CITY. The City of Mason, and its authorized agents.
   CITY ENGINEER. A professional engineer designated by and representing the
City of Mason or his or her authorized agent.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the City of Mason.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Mason, Ohio.
   CUT. See EXCAVATION.
   DETENTION BASINS. Dry surface stormwater storage areas created by natural
contours or by constructing an excavated or embankment basin or by installing
underground structures such as concrete pipes or chambers.
   DEVELOPMENT. A change in the use of a parcel of land which will alter the
natural or existing state of the property.
   DEVELOPER. A person or company performing construction work of any kind in
the project area.
   EMBANKMENT. A fill. Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other
material is placed, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved to a new
location above the natural surface of the ground or on top of the stripped
surface or cut and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom. The
difference in elevation between a point on the original ground and a designated
point of higher elevation on the final grade. The material used to make a fill.
   EROSION. The wearing away of the land surface by the action of wind, water
or gravity.
   EXCAVATION. A cut. Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other
similar material is dug into, cut, quarried, uncovered, removed, displaced,
relocated or bulldozed and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
The difference between a point on the original ground and a designated point of
lower elevation on the final grade. The material removed in excavation.
   FILL. See EMBANKMENT.
   GRADING. Any stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling or any combination
thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
   MULCHING. The application of suitable materials on the soil surface to
conserve moisture, hold soil in place and aid in establishing plant cover.
   NATURAL VEGETATION. The ground cover in its original state before any
grading, excavation or filling.
   ODOT. The Ohio Department of Transportation.
   PERMANENT VEGETATION. Producing long term vegetative cover, that is
bluegrass, tall fescue, crown vetch and the like.
   PLAN. The Water Management and Sediment Control Plan.
   PROJECT AREA. The land lying within the geographical limits of the tract(s)
or parcel(s) under consideration and on which the work is to be performed.
   REDEVELOPMENT. Any alteration to an existing building or site usage which
will require Planning Commission or Building Department approval.
   RETENTION POND. Permanent ponds where additional stormwater storage capacity
is provided above the normal water level.
   SEDIMENT. Solid material both mineral and organic, that is in suspension, is
being transported or has been moved from its original site or origin by air,
water or gravity as a product of erosion.
   SEDIMENT BASIN. A barrier or dam built across a waterway or at other
suitable locations to retain rock, sand, gravel or silt or other materials.
   SLOPE. The face of an embankment or cut section; any ground whose surface
makes an angle with the plane of the horizon. SLOPES are expressed in a
percentage based upon vertical difference in feet per 100 feet of horizontal
distance or as a ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance, for example
three to one means three feet horizontal distance to one foot in elevation
change.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. The combination of land grading, pavement
slope, open channels, underground conduits (storm sewers, culverts,
underdrains), catch basins, manholes, dams, detention/retention facilities and
the like, designed according to acceptable engineering practice to properly
transport, detain, store or dispose of stormwater.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land by
any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, for lease, transfer of ownership or building or lot development. The
name given to an area of land divided into lots including streets, walkways,
easements and the like
   SWALE. A low-lying stretch of land which gathers or carries surface water
runoff.
   SWCD. The Warren County Soil and Water Conservation District or its
authorized agent.
   TEMPORARY VEGETATION. Short term vegetative cover used to stabilize the soil
surface until final grading and installation of permanent vegetation, such as
oats, rye or wheat.
   TOPSOIL. Surface soils and subsurface soils which presumably are fertile
soils and soil material, ordinarily rich in organic matter or humus debris.
TOPSOIL is usually found in the uppermost soil layer.
   WATERCOURSE. A permanent stream, intermittent stream, river, brook, creek,
channel or ditch for water whether natural or man-made.
   WATER MANAGEMENT AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN (AKA STORMWATER POLLUTION
PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP)).  The application, maps, plans, calculations and all
other material required by this chapter and the current edition of the Mason
Stormwater Manual.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1119.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   It is the general intent of the city that when development or redevelopment
takes place within the city that the development shall not cause any stormwater
or erosion problems either up stream or downstream from the development site
and more specifically that the amount of stormwater discharged off the site
shall not be greater after development than allowed under this chapter and the
current edition of the Mason Stormwater Manual.
   (a)   Before a parcel is cleared, graded or otherwise disturbed by the
movement of earth by any person, partnership or corporation, a Water Management
and Sediment Control Plan describing the proposed earth movement shall be
approved by the Planning Commission, where development comes under any one or
more of the following conditions, unless the development is exempted therefrom
by division (b) hereof:
      (1)   Cut and fill will exceed 100 cubic yards. The cut volume shall not
include that necessary for pavement, sidewalks or buildings, but, if the
material from these excavations is placed within the project area as fill it
shall be considered when calculating the fill volume;
      (2)   Cut or fill will exceed four feet in vertical depth at its deepest
point measured from the natural ground surface;
      (3)   Existing surface drainage is impaired or if the proposed work
within the project area constitutes a potential erosion hazard or acts as a
source of sediment deposit to any adjacent land or watercourse;
      (4)   Final slopes are steeper than three to one;
      (5)   Fill placed on a surface having a slope steeper than five to one;
or
      (6)   Existing stormwater runoff is altered in a way that affects
adjacent properties.
   (b)   A Water Management and Sediment Control Plan shall not be required for
any of the following conditions:
      (1)   Excavations below finished grade for drain fields, tanks, vaults,
tunnels, equipment, basements, swimming pools, cellars or footings of buildings
or structures for which a building permit shall have been issued by the city,
unless the excavation is part of the work within a project area which required
a permit;
      (2)   Excavation or removal of vegetation in public utility easements by
public utility companies for the purpose of installing underground utilities,
unless required by the City Engineer;
      (3)   Tilling of the soil for fire protection purposes;
      (4)   The construction of sod waterways, terraces, grade stabilization
structures and surface water diversions which do not direct stormwater to
adjacent property, tilling the soil and similar work on property used
exclusively for farming or other agricultural purposes;
      (5)   When the Planning Commission rules that no Water Management and
Sediment Control permit is required;
      (6)   For the construction of one or two family residences in an existing
subdivision, their accessory structures and related work;
      (7)   Any construction work designed, bid and inspected by or under
control of the city unless specifically required by the city; or
      (8)   Any unsubdivided parcel less than one acre in size.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1119.03 PERFORMANCE PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS.
   (a)   The following principles are effective in minimizing erosion and
sedimentation and shall be included where applicable in the Water Management
and Sediment Control Plan:
      (1)   Stripping of vegetation, regrading or other development shall be
done in a way that will minimize erosion. Whenever feasible, natural vegetation
shall be retained, protected and supplemented;
      (2)   Development plans shall preserve salient natural features, keep
cut-fill operations to a minimum, and ensure conformity with topography so as
to create the least erosion potential;
      (3)   The smallest practical area of land shall be exposed at any one
time and the duration of exposure shall be kept to a practical minimum. The
topsoil shall be preserved and returned to the surface of areas to be
revegetated, or new topsoil will be provided, or the surface shall be covered
with sod;
      (4)   Disturbed soils shall be stabilized as quickly as practical with
temporary vegetation or mulching to protect exposed critical areas during
development;
      (5)   The permanent final vegetation and structural erosion control and
drainage measures shall be installed as soon as practical in the development;
      (6)   Provisions shall be made to effectively accommodate the increased
runoff caused by changed soil and surface conditions during and after
development. Where necessary, detention/retention basins shall be provided
according to the requirements of this chapter; and
      (7)   Sediment in the runoff water shall be trapped by the use of debris
basins, sediment basins, silt traps or similar measures until the disturbed
area is stabilized.
   (b)   The following standards shall be followed in preparing Water
Management and Sediment Control Plans:
      (1)   All lots, tracts or parcels shall be graded to provide proper
drainage away from the building and dispose of it without ponding except as
provided herein. Each lot shall be graded so that water from the lot drains to
a natural stream, swale, storm sewers or other watercourse;
      (2)   All drainage provisions shall be of the design to adequately handle
the surface runoff;
      (3)   Concentration of surface water runoff shall only be permitted in
swales or watercourses;
      (4)   The installation of the specific water management and sediment
control measures shall be accomplished in accordance with the standards and
specifications contained in the and the current edition of the Stormwater
Manual and the SWCD;
      (5)   During the construction phase, further consultive technical
assistance will be furnished, if necessary by the City Engineer or by the SWCD;
and
      (6)   The Building Department shall enforce compliance with the approved
plans.
   (c)   The approved Water Management and Sediment Control Plan required of
the landowner or his or her agent shall include, but not be restricted to the
following:
      (1)   A vicinity sketch and boundary line survey of the project area;
      (2)   Location of all existing buildings, structures, utilities, storm
and sanitary sewers and waterlines in the project area;
      (3)   Location of all trees with a trunk diameter of greater than six
inches measured at a point five feet from the ground or a report on the trees
in a form acceptable to the city from an arboriculturist certified by the city.
If there are no trees, a note so stating shall be placed on the plans;
      (4)   Location of any building or structure, on land of adjacent property
owners, within 100 feet of the project area;
      (5)   Elevations, contours, dimensions, locations and extent of all work
proposed to be done within and outside the project area, the existing
elevations and contours of the land all in increments of two feet, and soil
type and proposed ground cover for areas not covered by buildings, structures
or pavement;
      (6)   A certification of the quantity of cut and fill involved;
      (7)   Detailed plans of all proposed stormwater provisions, retaining
walls, vegetative practices, erosion and sediment control measures, location of
fences around sediment basins, detention/retention basins or steep excavations
and other protective devices to be constructed in connection with, or as a part
of the proposed work;
      (8)   Provisions for maintenance of control facilities including
easements to ensure short as well as long term erosion and sediment control;
      (9)   A map showing the drainage area of land tributary to the project
area and estimated runoff of the area served by any drainage structure or
watercourse, computed in accordance with the current edition of the Mason
Stormwater Manual;
      (10)   The estimated cost of all the required water management and
sediment control items.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1119.04 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PROVISIONS.
   (a)   Introduction.
      (1)   Every subdivision and land development shall be provided with a
stormwater management system which
is adequate to serve the area and meets the requirements of the current edition
of the Mason Stormwater Manual and other criteria of the city.
      (2)   A.   Developers are required to design improvements so that in a
100- year storm, the rate of stormwater runoff leaving the project area at
strategic points is no more after development than if the project area had
remained undeveloped. If necessary, detention/retention facilities shall be
constructed to assure that this requirement is met.
         B.   Where an existing site is being partially or totally redeveloped
all requirements of this chapter will be in full force and effect. If
conditions warrant on partially redeveloped sites and the developer can show
that the application of all requirements would cause a hardship, he or she may
request partial relief from Planning Commission.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may waive requirements for an individual
detention/retention basin if a common or regional detention/retention basin of
adequate design is available or if the city is reasonably certain one will be
constructed and if the major drainage system from the project area to the
common or regional detention/retention basin is such that the public health,
safety and welfare will not be in jeopardy. If this option is exercised, the
developer shall agree in writing to participate in the cost of the common or
regional detention/retention basin whether already constructed or planned. The
amount of participation and method of collection will be determined by the
city.
      (4)   It is not the intent of this chapter to hinder innovative and
creative solutions to drainage problems, however, in the interest of expediting
the processing of plans and construction, use of standard procedures, forms,
nomographs, charts and computer programs is necessary. Deviation from these
standards will cause delay in the approval process.
      (5)   Although the submission requirements are specific, they are also
the minimum requirements. The City Engineer may recommend to the Planning
Commission a higher degree of protection than specified if the design results
do not appear adequate to protect the health, safety and welfare of the
community.
      (6)   Stormwater management systems shall be designed for the ultimate
use of the land.
      (7)   Subsurface drainage such as underdrains may be required at the
discretion of the City Engineer.
      (8)   Continued maintenance. Once a Stormwater Management Plan has been
approved and constructed it shall be the responsibility of the property owner
to maintain the facility as designed and constructed and to ensure its proper
operation to meet the intent and requirements of this chapter at all times.
   (b)   Stormwater management system.
      (1)   The development of a comprehensive stormwater management system
requires providing two separate and distinct drainage systems, the minor system
and the major system.
         A.   The minor drainage system is for collecting and transporting
runoff from frequently occurring storms. It includes open channels, street
curbs and gutters, and underground storm sewers, manholes, catch basins and
culverts. This system’s purpose is to lessen or eliminate inconveniences and
safety and health hazards associated with frequent storms. Except where
indicated otherwise, design criteria and requirements of this chapter are
directed to the minor drainage system.
         B.   The major drainage system is to ensure that stormwater runoff
which exceeds the capacity of the minor drainage system has a route to follow
to the retention basin. It shall be recognized that the major drainage system
exists even when it is not planned and whether or not physical facilities are
intelligently located in respect to it.
      (2)   Submission requirements for subdivisions. Plans, profiles and
supporting documentation to verify conformance with this chapter shall be
submitted along with the usual plan submissions required in Subdivision Rules
and Regulations.
         A.   Preliminary plans. In addition to the subdivision requirements, a
plan showing the total area contributing runoff to the subdivision or project
area being considered shall be submitted with the preliminary plans. This plan
shall contain, but is not limited to, the following information:
            1.   A contour plan showing the outline of all areas outside the
project area that contributes runoff to it;
            2.   Estimated runoff (Q) before and after development for terminal
points along natural streams, proposed open channels and other strategic points
such as existing storm sewers or culverts;
            3.   Location of proposed detention/retention areas; and
            4.   Any other information required by the city to clarify intent.
         B.   Improvement plans. In addition to the subdivision requirements,
the improvement plan for the project area shall contain, but is not limited to,
the following information:
            1.   Diameter, length, slope, type pipe and class of all storm
sewers, culverts and subsurface drainage;
            2.   Invert elevations on profiles of all pipes at terminal points
such as manholes inlets, catch basins and head walls;
            3.   Top of grate elevations of manholes and grate flowlines of
catch basins and inlets;
            4.   Type of catch basin, inlet and manhole (ODOT or city
designation);
            5.   Headwall type (ODOT or city designation);
            6.   Actual existing and proposed cross sections of open channels
showing width of bottom, depth of water, erosion control measures and limits,
and side slopes at each point of design along with a profile indicating the
longitudinal slope and bottom elevations at the terminal points of design;
            7.   High and low points indicating the direction of runoff flow
along the profile of the roadway;
            8.   Structural details and design data for detention/retention
facilities;
            9.   Details of construction for all structures not included in the
city standard construction drawings, or other referenced standards;
            10.   Easements;
            11.   Detention/retention facilities; and
            12.   Any other information required by the City Engineer to
clarify intent or design features.
         C.   Drainage and grading plans. In addition to the improvement plan,
a drainage plan shall be submitted. This plan may be the required improvement
plan or a similar plan at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet or larger showing
at least the following additional information:
            1.   Contours indicating the existing and final grading at vertical
increments of no more than two feet;
            2.   Discharge (Q), coefficient of runoff (c) and drainage area (A)
along with the outline of the drainage area for each inlet, catch basin,
culvert and open channel point of design and other locations designated by the
City Engineer. Drainage areas that lie partially outside the limits of the
drainage and grading plan may be delineated on any contour map acceptable to
the City Engineer;
            3.   Discharge (Q) before and after development at strategic points
within and at extremities of the project area;
            4.   Delineation of the boundaries and contour elevation, along
with the track, of the major drainage system through downstream areas to an
adequate outlet even though the outlet may be outside the project area;
            5.   Delineation of the horizontal limits of ponding areas at low
points (sags) in the street profile and low points outside the street right-of-
way including, but not limited to, culvert headwater, natural stream water
surfaces and sump type inlets for storms with frequencies of 25 and 100 years;
            6.   High and low water horizontal limits and contour elevation of
detention/retention/sediment ation facilities along with water surface and
control weir elevations, outlet structures and the like;
            7.   Areas outside of the project area susceptible to sediment
deposits or to erosion caused by accelerated runoff;
            8.   Location of soils that may be limited for the proposed use;
            9.   All requirements of this chapter; and
            10.   Any other information required by the City Engineer to
clarify intent, specified requirements or design features.
         D.   Supporting data. All data and design information used for the
design of drainage facilities and for determining downstream flood information
shall be submitted with the drainage and grading plan. To facilitate review and
avoid confusion, legends, descriptions and structure numbering used on design
forms or other calculations shall be identical to those used on the improvement
plans and the drainage and grading plan. This data shall include but are not
limited to:
            1.   Weighted runoff coefficient calculations for each contributing
area;
            2.   Pavement drainage computations;
            3.   Storm sewer computations;
            4.   Culvert design computations;
            5.   Open channel computations;
            6.   Detention/retention facilities computations;
            7.   Inlet capacity computations; and
            8.   Any other information required by the City Engineer to clarify
intent or design features.
         E.   As-built plans. Amended improvement plans specifying the
locations, dimensions, elevations and capacities of all facilities as
constructed shall be submitted to the city on construction completion of the
project. These shall include all required design features except those waived
by the City Engineer. All revisions to the approved plans shall be approved by
the city prior to construction.
   (c)   Stormwater design. See current edition of City of Mason Stormwater
Manual.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1119.05 APPROVAL PROCEDURES.
   (a)   The building permit review process shall not begin until the Water
Management and Sediment Control Plan, together with other submissions required
by this chapter are approved by the City Engineer.
   (b)   Three copies of complete plan and supporting data shall be filed with
the Building Department at least two weeks prior to the meeting of the Planning
Commission. The City Engineer or his or her representative shall review and
recommend changes or modifications as are deemed necessary to the Planning
Commission.
   (c)   The City Engineer shall also refer a copy of the plans or extension of
previously approved plans requiring water management and sediment control
measures to the SWCD for review and recommendation as to adequate water
management and sediment control measures to prevent damage to other properties.
   (d)   The Planning Commission shall review these plans as submitted,
together with the recommendations of the City Manager, Building Official, City
Engineer and the SWCD. If the Commission approves the plans, it shall so advise
the Building Official who shall insure compliance by the applicant with the
plans as finally approved.
   (e)   Every Water Management and Sediment Control Plan approval shall expire
and become null and void if the work authorized has not commenced within 120
days, or is not completed within two years from date of issue. The Planning
Commission may grant a reasonable extension of time if the permit holder
presents satisfactory evidence that unusual difficulties have prevented work
being started or completed within the specified time limits and if written
application is made before the expiration date of this permit.
   (f)   In order to ensure that emergency measures could be taken by the city
if the water management and sediment control measures were not implemented
according to the agreed upon plan and schedule, a performance bond in the
amount of the cost of the water management and sediment control measures shall
be required to be filed with the City Finance Director. The performance bond
shall authorize immediate payment to the city upon certification by the City
Manager with the concurrence of the Planning Commission, that necessary
emergency work shall be done immediately to insure proper water management and
sediment control as a result of the landowner’s failure to complete or adhere
to the approved Water Management and Sediment Control Plan.
   (g)   The Planning Commission and the City Manager shall make a continuing
review and evaluation of the methods used and overall effectiveness of the
stormwater management and sediment control program.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1119.06 SUSPENSION AND PENALTIES.
   In the event any person holding an approved Water Management and Sediment
Control Plan pursuant to this chapter violates the terms of the plan, or
conducts or carries on the site development in a manner as to materially
adversely affect the health, welfare or safety of persons residing or working
in the neighborhood of the project area, or conducts or carries on the site
development so that it is materially detrimental to the public welfare or
injurious to property or improvements in the neighborhood, the City Building
Official shall temporarily suspend the water management and sediment control
approval.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1119.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which another penalty is
not already provided, shall be fined not more than $150. Each day’s violation
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
***** TITLE TWO: ADMINISTRATION *****
CHAPTER 1121: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
1121.01   Purpose
1121.02   Fees for subdivisions, zoning and planning
Cross-reference:
   Building permit fees, see §
1301.05
   Fee for zoning changes, annexation, plat and other approvals, see §
137.02
   Fee schedule, see
Ch. 205
   Other approvals, see §
137.02
§ 1121.01 PURPOSE.
   The fees are intended to help defray the city’s cost for staff review of
plans and drawings and for field inspections.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1121.02 FEES FOR SUBDIVISIONS, ZONING AND PLANNING.
   Fees are established as set forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title
Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
***** TITLE THREE: ZONING ADMINISTRATION *****
CHAPTER 1131: PURPOSE AND INTERPRETATION
Section
1131.01   Purpose and scope
1131.02   Short title
1131.03   Interpretation as minimum standards
1131.04   Validity
1131.05   Certification
1131.06   Repeal of conflicting ordinances
Cross-reference:
   Legislative intent, see §
101.07
   Rules of construction, see §§
101.03 et seq.
§ 1131.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   This Zoning Ordinance of the city is enacted for the purpose of promoting
the public health, safety, morals, convenience and general welfare;
establishing land use classifications; dividing the city into districts
imposing regulations, restrictions and prohibitions upon the use and occupancy
of real property; limiting the height, area and bulk of buildings and other
structures and providing for yards and other open spaces about them;
establishing standards of performance and design; and providing for the
administration and enforcement thereof.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1131.02 SHORT TITLE.
   Titles Three, Five and Seven of this Part Eleven - Planning and Zoning Code
shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the “Zoning Ordinance for
Mason, Ohio” or “Zoning Ordinance.”
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1131.03 INTERPRETATION AS MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this Zoning
Ordinance shall be held to be minimum requirements. Wherever this Zoning
Ordinance imposes a greater restriction than is imposed or required by other
provisions of the law or by other rules or regulations or ordinances, the
provisions of this Zoning Ordinance shall govern.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1131.04 VALIDITY.
   This Zoning Ordinance and the various parts, chapters, sections and
subsections thereof are hereby declared to be severable. If any chapter,
section, subsection, paragraph, sentence or phrase of this Zoning Ordinance is
adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
the remainder of this Zoning Ordinance shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1131.05 CERTIFICATION.
   The Clerk of Council is hereby ordered and directed to certify the passage
of this Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1131.06 REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   All other ordinances of the city, inconsistent with the provisions of this
Zoning Ordinance and to the extent of the inconsistency and no further, are
hereby repealed.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
CHAPTER 1133: DEFINITIONS
Section
1133.01   Interpretation of terms or words
1133.02   Access management regulations
1133.03   Accessory use or structure
1133.04   Agriculture
1133.05   Alley
1133.06   Apartment
1133.07   Approved street or road
1133.08   As-built drawings
1133.09   Automobile, mobile home, recreational vehicle or trailer sales
1133.10   Automobile service station
1133.11   Automobile wrecking
1133.12   Automotive repair, major
1133.13   Automotive repair, minor
1133.14   Basement
1133.15   Bed and breakfast
1133.16   Block
1133.17   Board
1133.18   Building
1133.19   Building, accessory
1133.20   Building, height of
1133.21   Building, principal
1133.22   Building line
1133.23   Business, convenience
1133.24   Business, general
1133.25   Business, highway
1133.26   Business, office type
1133.27   Business, service
1133.28   Business, wholesale
1133.29   Cellular communication services
1133.30   Cellular or wireless communications antenna
1133.31   Cellular or wireless communications site
1133.32   Cellular or wireless communications support structure
1133.33   Cellular or wireless communications tower
1133.34   Cellular or wireless communications tower, height of
1133.35   Cemetery
1133.36   Child day-care
1133.37   Child day-care center
1133.38   Church or synagogue
1133.39   City
1133.40   City Council or Council
1133.41   City Engineer
1133.42   City Planner
1133.43   Clinic
1133.44   Club
1133.45   Codified ordinances
1133.46   Commercial recreation facility
1133.47   Commission
1133.48   Comprehensive Development Plan
1133.49   Computerized sweepstakes device
1133.50   Conditional use
1133.51   Conditional use permit
1133.52   Condominium
1133.53   Construction plans or drawings
1133.54   Convalescent, nursing or rest home
1133.55   County
1133.56   County Engineer
1133.57   Court
1133.58   Covenant
1133.59   Crosswalk
1133.60   Culvert
1133.61   Dedication
1133.62   Density
1133.63   Development costs
1133.64   Disabled
1133.65   District
1133.66   Downtown Overlay District
1133.67   Driveway approaches and curb cuts
1133.68   Duplex
1133.69   Dwelling
1133.70   Easement
1133.71   Elderly household
1133.72   Elderly housing facility
1133.73   Elderly person
1133.74   Engineer
1133.75   Factory-built housing
1133.76   Family
1133.77   FEMA floodplain
1133.78   Fence, ornamental
1133.79   Fleet vehicle
1133.80   Floor area of a nonresidential building
1133.81   Floor area of a residential building
1133.82   Frontage
1133.83   Garages
1133.84   Golf course
1133.85   Group homes
1133.86   Home-based barber shop or beauty salon
1133.87   Home occupation
1133.88   Hospital, health care facility
1133.89   Hotel
1133.90   Impervious surface
1133.91   Impervious surface ratio
1133.92   Improvements
1133.93   Junkyard
1133.94   Kennel
1133.95   Landominium
1133.96   Landscape Ordinance
1133.97   Lot
1133.98   Maintenance bond
1133.99   May
1133.100   Micro antennas
1133.101   Minor subdivision
1133.102   Mobile home park
1133.103   Motel
1133.104   Monuments
1133.105   Noise Ordinance
1133.106   Nonconforming use
1133.107   Nursing home
1133.108   Occupancy
1133.109   Occupiable space
1133.110   Open space
1133.111   Open space ratio
1133.112   Original parcel
1133.113   O.R.C.
1133.114   Out lot
1133.115   Overlay district
1133.116   Parcel
1133.117   Parking area
1133.118   Parking lot
1133.119   Parking space
1133.120   Performance bond
1133.121   Personal wireless services
1133.122   Place
1133.123   Planned unit development
1133.124   Planning Commission
1133.125   Plat
1133.126   Public utility
1133.127   Public way
1133.128   Repairs and maintenance
1133.129   Restaurant, drive-in or drive- through
1133.130   Restaurant, fast food
1133.131   Restaurant, standard
1133.132   Retail
1133.133   Right-of-way
1133.134   Roadway
1133.135   Sanitary sewer system
1133.136   School, primary, secondary, college or university
1133.137   Setback
1133.138   Shall
1133.139   Should
1133.140   Shopping center, commercial
1133.141   Shopping center, neighborhood
1133.142   Sight distance
1133.143   Signs
1133.144   Small cell facility
1133.145   Stables
1133.146   Standard construction drawings
1133.147   Story
1133.148   Street
1133.149   Street Tree Ordinance
1133.150   Structural alterations
1133.151   Structure
1133.152   Subdivider
1133.153   Subdivider’s contract
1133.154   Subdivision
1133.155   Subdivision Regulations
1133.156   Surveyor
1133.157   Sweepstakes/internet cafe
1133.158   Tall structure
1133.159   Thoroughfare, route, street or road
1133.160   Thoroughfare Plan
1133.161   Townhome
1133.162   Tract
1133.163   Traffic impact study regulations
1133.164   Truck terminal
1133.165   Used
1133.166   Utility station
1133.167   Variance
1133.168   Vicinity map
1133.169   Wastewater System Master Plan
1133.170   Water Master Plan
1133.171   Yard
1133.172   Zoning Board of Appeals
1133.173   Zoning Administrator
1133.174   Zoning certificate
§ 1133.01 INTERPRETATION OF TERMS OR WORDS.
   For the purpose of this Zoning Ordinance, certain terms or words used herein
shall be interpreted as follows, unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   (a)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation as well as an individual.
   (b)   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular.
   (c)   The word SHALL or WILL is a mandatory requirement, the word MAY is a
permissive requirement, and the word SHOULD is a preferred requirement.
   (d)   The words USED or OCCUPIED include the words INTENDED, DESIGNED or
ARRANGED TO BE USED OR OCCUPIED.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.02 ACCESS MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.
   
Chapter 1115 of Title One (Subdivision Regulations) of the City of Mason Zoning
Ordinance.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.03 ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE.
   A use or structure constructed or installed on, above, or below the surface
of a parcel, which is located on the same lot as a principal use or structure
and which is subordinate to or serves the principal use or structure, is
subordinate in area to the principal use or structure, and is customarily
incidental to the principal use or structure. ACCESSORY USE includes anything
of a subordinate nature detached from a principal structure or use, such as
fences, walls, sheds, garages, parking places, decks, poles, poster panels and
billboards. ACCESSORY USE does not mean or include structures providing utility
service to the parcel, such as gas, electric or water.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 2001-04, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 1133.04 AGRICULTURE.
   The primary use of land for farming, dairying, pasturage, apiculture,
horticulture, floriculture, viticulture and animal and poultry husbandry and
the necessary accessory uses for packing, treating or storing the produce,
provided, however that:
   (a)   The operation of any accessory uses shall be secondary to that of
normal agricultural activities; and
   (b)   The above uses shall not be located within 100 feet of any residential
zoning district. AGRICULTURE does not include the feeding of garbage to animals
or the operation or maintenance of a commercial stockyard or feedyard.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.05 ALLEY.
   A public or private way not more than 30 feet wide affording only secondary
means of access to abutting property.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.06 APARTMENT.
   A room or suite of rooms in a multi-family dwelling or multi-use building
arranged and intended as a place of residence for a single family or a group of
individuals living together as a single housekeeping unit, but does not include
a condominium, landominium or townhouse where each unit is individually owned.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.07 APPROVED STREET OR ROAD.
   A right-of-way designed and approved for purposes of providing vehicular
access and meeting the requirements of the Thoroughfare Plan where appropriate.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.08 AS-BUILT DRAWINGS.
   A complete set of reproducible drawings, including an electronic Autocad
file of the drawing, drawn to scale, with field-verified locations of
improvements shown on the construction drawings, including, but not limited to
water mains; sanitary and storm sewer alignments, grades and sizes; sanitary
manholes, storm manhole and catch basin locations with elevations for rim and
all flowlines; sanitary sewer building tap locations; waterline locations;
detention/retention basin volume checks; water house service tap locations;
fire hydrant locations; valve locations; and all changes from approved
construction drawings.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.09 AUTOMOBILE, MOBILE HOME, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAILER SALES.
   An open area other than a street used for the display, sale or rental of new
or used motor vehicles, mobile homes, recreational vehicles or trailers in
operable condition and where no repair work is done.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.10 AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.
   An establishment principally used for the dispensation, sale or offering for
retail sale of automobile fuels or oils and may include facilities for the sale
of other retail products. An AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION shall not include major
or minor automobile repair uses.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.11 AUTOMOBILE WRECKING.
   The dismantling or disassembling of used motor vehicles or trailers or the
storage, sale or dumping of dismantled, partially dismantled, obsolete or
wrecked vehicles or their parts.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.12 AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR, MAJOR.
   Motor repair or replacement, transmission repair or replacement, exhaust
system repair or replacement, body and fender repair, spray painting,
upholstery work, auto glasswork, welding, tire recapping, radiator repairs and/
or other similar major mechanical work.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.13 AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR, MINOR.
   Oil and fluid changes, tune-ups, wheel balancing and mounting, minor tire
repair, replacement of lamps, bulbs, filters, belts, valves, gaskets and the
like, and the repair or replacement of minor mechanical or electrical
components.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.14 BASEMENT.
   A story having part but not less than one-half its height below grade. A
basement is counted as one-half story for the purpose of height regulations.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.15 BED AND BREAKFAST.
   A building or part thereof, other than a hotel, boarding house, lodging
house or motel, with one to five guest rooms, where lodging is provided by a
resident family in its home for compensation, mainly for transients.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.16 BLOCK.
   A tract of land bordered on all sides by streets; or by one or more streets
and a railroad right-of-way, waterway, unsubdivided acreage or other barrier to
the continuity of development.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.17 BOARD.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.18 BUILDING.
   Any structure for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals,
chattels or property of any kind.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.19 BUILDING, ACCESSORY.
   A subordinate building not attached by a permanent roof or wall to, but
located on the same lot as the principal building, the use of which is
incidental and accessory to that of the main building or use. (Ord. 99-207,
passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.20 BUILDING, HEIGHT OF.
   The vertical distance from the grade at a building line to the highest point
of the coping of a flat roof or to the mean height level between the eaves and
ridge line for a mansard, pitch or hip roof.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.21 BUILDING, PRINCIPAL.
   A building in which is conducted the main or principal use of the lot on
which the building is situated.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.22 BUILDING LINE.
   A line established by the Zoning Ordinance, generally parallel with and
measured from the lot line, defining the limits of a yard in which no building
or structure may be located above ground, except that otherwise may be
provided.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.23 BUSINESS, CONVENIENCE.
   Commercial uses that cater to and can be located in close proximity to or
within residential districts, without creating undue vehicular congestion.
Convenience uses include, but need not be limited to, drugstores, beauty
salons, barber shops, carry-outs, dry cleaning and laundry pickup facilities,
and grocery stores of less than 10,000 square feet in floor area. Uses in this
classification tend to serve a day-to-day need in the neighborhood.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.24 BUSINESS, GENERAL.
   Commercial uses that generally require locations on or near major
thoroughfares and/or their intersections, and which tend, in addition to
serving day-to-day needs of the community, to also supply the more durable and
permanent needs of the whole community. General business uses include, but need
not be limited to, such activities as supermarkets; stores that sell hardware,
apparel, footwear, appliances, and furniture; department stores; and discount
stores.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000; Am. Ord. 2011-64, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 1133.25 BUSINESS, HIGHWAY.
   Commercial uses that generally require locations on or near major
thoroughfares and/or their intersections, and which tend to serve the motoring
public. Highway business uses include, but need not be limited to, such
activities as filling stations; truck and auto sales and service; restaurants
and motels; and commercial recreation.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000; Am. Ord. 2011-64, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 1133.26 BUSINESS, OFFICE TYPE.
   Quasi-commercial uses that may often be transitional between retail business
and/or manufacturing uses, and residential uses. Office business generally
accommodates the occupations as administrative, executive, professional,
accounting, writing, clerical, stenographic and drafting. Institutional offices
of a charitable, philanthropic or religious or educational nature are also
included in this classification.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.27 BUSINESS, SERVICE.
   Any profit-making activity that renders services primarily to other
commercial or industrial enterprises, or that services and repairs appliances
and machines used in homes and businesses.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.28 BUSINESS, WHOLESALE.
   Business establishments that generally sell commodities in large quantities
or by the piece to retailers, jobbers, other wholesale establishments or
manufacturing establishments. These commodities are basically for further
resale, for use in the fabrication of a product, or for use by a business
service.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.29 CELLULAR COMMUNICATION SERVICES.
   Personal communications accessed by means of cellular equipment and
services.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.30 CELLULAR OR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS ANTENNA.
   Any structure or device used to receive or transmit electromagnetic waves
between cellular phones, pagers, commercial mobile services, wireless services
and ground-wired communications systems including both directional antennas,
such as panels, microwave dishes and satellite dishes, and omni- directional
antennas such as whips and other equipment utilized to serve personal
communication services.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.31 CELLULAR OR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SITE.
   A tract, lot or parcel of land that contains the cellular or wireless
communications tower, antenna, support structure(s), parking and any other uses
associated with and ancillary to cellular or wireless communications
transmission.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.32 CELLULAR OR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT STRUCTURE.
   Any building or structure, including equipment shelters and guy wire
anchors, accessory to but necessary for the proper functioning of the cellular
or wireless communications antenna or tower.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.33 CELLULAR OR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS TOWER.
   Any freestanding structure used to support a cellular or wireless
communications antenna.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.34 CELLULAR OR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS TOWER, HEIGHT OF.
   The height from the base of the structure, at grade, to its top, including
any antenna located thereon. Grade shall be determined as the elevation of the
natural or existing topography of the ground level prior to construction of the
tower.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.35 CEMETERY.
   Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the human dead and
dedicated as a cemetery for these purposes, including crematories, mausoleums
and mortuaries if operated in connection with and within the boundaries of the
cemetery.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.36 CHILD DAY-CARE.
   Administering to the needs of infants, toddlers, pre-schoolers by persons
other than their parents or guardians, custodians or relatives by blood,
marriage, or adoption for any part of the 24-hour day in a place or residence
other than the child’s own home.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.37 CHILD DAY-CARE CENTER.
   Any place in which child day-care is provided, with or without compensation,
for 13 or more children at any one time, or any place that is not the permanent
residence of the licensee or administrator in which child day-care is provided,
with or without compensation, for seven to 12 children at any one time. In
counting children for the purposes of this definition, any children under six
years of age who are related to a licensee, administrator or employee and who
are on the premises shall be counted.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.38 CHURCH OR SYNAGOGUE.
   A church, synagogue, rectory, parish house or similar building incidental to
the particular use which is maintained and operated by an organized group of
people for religious purposes.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.39 CITY.
   The City of Mason, Ohio.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.40 CITY COUNCIL OR COUNCIL.
   The legislative body of the City of Mason.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.41 CITY ENGINEER.
   The City Engineer or his or her designated representative.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.42 CITY PLANNER.
   The City Planner.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.43 CLINIC.
   A place used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing, infirm
and injured persons and those who are in need of medical or surgical attention,
but who are not provided with board, or room, nor kept overnight on the
premises.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.44 CLUB.
   A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members, paying regular
dues and are organized for some common purpose, but not including a group
organized solely or primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a
commercial enterprise.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.45 CODIFIED ORDINANCES.
   The ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections; and designated as the codified ordinances of Mason,
Ohio.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.46 COMMERCIAL RECREATION FACILITY.
   Any profit-making activity that is generally related to the entertainment
field, such as motion
picture theaters, carnivals, nightclubs, cocktail lounges and similar
entertainment activities.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.47 COMMISSION.
   The City Planning Commission.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.48 COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   A plan, or any portion thereof, adopted by Planning Commission and City
Council, showing the general location and extent of present and proposed
physical facilities including housing, industrial and commercial uses, major
thoroughfares, parks, schools and other community facilities. This plan
establishes the goals, objectives and policies of the community.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.49 COMPUTERIZED SWEEPSTAKES DEVICE.
   Any computer, machine, game or apparatus which, upon insertion of a coin,
token, access number, magnetic card, or similar object, or upon the payment of
anything of value, and which may be operated by the public generally for use as
a contest of skill, entertainment or amusement, whether or not registering a
score, and which provides the user with a chance to win anything of value that
is not de minimus. Machines designated for use by the State Lottery Commission
and video game arcades are not computerized sweepstakes devices for purposes of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-64, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 1133.50 CONDITIONAL USE.
   A use permitted within a district other than a principally permitted use,
requiring a conditional use permit and approval of Planning Commission and City
Council.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.51 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator upon approval by Planning
Commission and City Council to allow a use other than a principally permitted
use to be established within the district.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.52 CONDOMINIUM.
   A structure consisting of one or more dwelling units with varying
arrangements of entrances and party walls. Its chief characteristic is that the
owners possess an undivided interest in common with other purchasers in a
portion of a parcel of real property, together with a separate interest in
space in a residential building, as described by R.C. Chapter 5311.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.53 CONSTRUCTION PLANS OR DRAWINGS.
   A complete set of engineering drawings drawn to scale containing, but not
limited to, grading plans, street plans and profiles, cross sections, sanitary
sewer plans and profiles, water main plans and profiles, storm sewer plans and
profiles, soil erosion control, a complete topographical layout of all existing
appurtenances and structures located within the right- of-way and in easements,
and any other requirement as determined by the City Engineer and as outlined in
the city design standards and construction drawings.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.54 CONVALESCENT, NURSING OR REST HOME.
   Any building or group of buildings providing personal assistance or nursing
care for those dependent upon the services by reason of age or physical or
mental impairment but not for the treatment of contagious diseases, addicts or
mental illnesses.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.55 COUNTY.
   Warren County, Ohio.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.56 COUNTY ENGINEER.
   The County Engineer of Warren County, Ohio.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.57 COURT.
   An open unoccupied and unobstructed space, other than a yard, on the same
lot with a building or group of buildings.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.58 COVENANT.
   A written promise or pledge.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.59 CROSSWALK.
   A pedestrian access that cuts across a public roadway to adjacent streets or
properties.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.60 CULVERT.
   A transverse drain that channels under a street or driveway.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.61 DEDICATION.
   The transfer of land to the city by its owner for any public use.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.62 DENSITY.
   A unit of measurement expressing the number of dwelling units per acre of
land.
   (a)   GROSS DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of the total area
to be developed.
   (b)   NET DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of land devoted to
residential uses, excluding right-of-way.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.63 DEVELOPMENT COSTS.
   Shall include all infrastructure costs associated with the development of a
subdivision or planned unit development, including but not limited to
underground and overhead utilities, grading, excavation, street improvements,
landscaping and street lights.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.64 DISABLED.
   Shall be defined as in the American Disabilities Act (ADA) guidelines.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000; Am. Ord. 2011-64, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 1133.65 DISTRICT.
   Any section of the city for which the regulations governing the use of
buildings and premises and the height and area of buildings are uniform.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.66 DOWNTOWN OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   An area within the corporate limits of the city designated by Council that
are subject to the regulations of
Chapter 1170. Following are additional definitions that pertain to the
Chapter 1170 Downtown Overlay District:
   (a)   ALTER or ALTERATION. Any material change in an existing external
architectural feature of any property which lies within the Downtown Overlay
District is covered in this regulation, including: demolition or removal;
modification to existing signage or placement of new signage; new  construction
or additions; improvement to roofs, windows, siding, awnings/canopies,
additions and doors/entrances, but not including the landscaping of real
property and painting.
   (b)   APPLICANT. Any owner, owners, person(s), association, partnership or
corporation who applied for a certificate of appropriateness in order to
undertake any change on property subject to this regulation.
   (c)   BACKGROUND BUILDINGS. Buildings having a low level of architectural
integrity and historic significance in the community. BACKGROUND BUILDINGS
include structures from all periods of the city’s history that form the
backdrop for other buildings. If they are more than 40 years old, they may have
alterations or exterior changes that diminish their architectural significance.
   (d)   BOARD. See DESIGN REVIEW BOARD.
   (e)   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. A certificate issued by the Design
Review Board authorizing alterations to existing buildings or authorizing new
construction in the Downtown Overlay District to ensure that alterations and
new construction preserve the downtown’s unique historical character.
   (f)   CONTRIBUTING BUILDINGS. Buildings having a moderate-high level of
architectural integrity and historic significance in the community.
CONTRIBUTING BUILDINGS are at least 40 years old and retain the defining
characteristics of their original construction or architectural style. This
group includes buildings that contribute to the historic character of the
downtown streetscape.
   (g)   COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL. The legislative body of the City of Mason.
   (h)   DESIGN REVIEW BOARD (BOARD). The Design Review Board (Board)
established under the provisions of
Chapter 1170.
   (i)   DEMOLITION. The removal of all or part of a structure.
   (j)   DOWNTOWN CORE. An area of special concern in the Downtown Overlay
District defined as the properties located between the Main Street/Mason-
Montgomery Road intersection and the Main Street/Reading Road intersection. The
Downtown Core also extends 150 feet east of the Main Street/Montgomery Road
intersection and 150 feet west of the Main Street/Reading Road intersection.
   (k)   EXTERNAL ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE. The architectural style, general
design and arrangement of the exterior of a structure including, but not
limited to, the type, color (for new construction and rehabilitation) and
texture or the building material, doors, windows, roof, porches and other
appurtenant fixtures.
   (l)   LANDMARK BUILDINGS. Buildings having a high level of architectural
integrity and historic significance in the community. LANDMARK BUILDINGS are at
least 40 years old and retain the defining characteristics of their original
construction or architectural style. They may be historically important for
their association with important people or events in local history, or
architecturally important as an example of a type, style or method of
construction from the past.
   (m)   MAINTENANCE. See REPAIR.
   (n)   MEMBER. Any member of the Design Review Board as established under the
provisions of this Regulation.
   (o)   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any improvement made to real property that is not
done in conjunction with an existing structure.
   (p)   NON-HISTORIC BUILDINGS. Buildings that are either examples of newer
construction or older  buildings that have had major alterations that result in
a loss of historic or architectural significance.
   (q)   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city as
established by Article VII, § 7.01 of the Charter of the city.
   (r)   REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE. Replacement of any part of a property where
the purpose and effect of the work and replacement is to correct or prevent any
deterioration or decay to the property, or any part thereof, and to restore
same, as nearly as may be practicable, to its original condition and
appearance, including minor repair of exterior surfaces including caulking,
repointing and nonabrasive cleaning. All activities undertaken on existing
buildings not deemed a minor repair by the Design Review Board shall be
considered an alteration.
(Ord. 2005-136, passed 11-28-2005)
§ 1133.67 DRIVEWAY APPROACHES AND CURB CUTS.
   
Chapter 1117 of the Subdivision Regulations of the city.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.68 DUPLEX.
   See Dwelling, Two-Family in § 1133.68(c).
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.69 DWELLING.
   (a)   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively
as the residence or sleeping place of one or more persons, but not including a
tent, cabin, trailer or mobile home, boarding or rooming house, hotel or motel.
   (b)   DWELLING GROUP. A group of two or more detached dwellings located on a
parcel of land in one ownership and having any yard or court in common.
   (c)   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof designed for or
occupied by three or more families.
   (d)   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied by one
family or a condominium, landominium or townhouse where each unit is
individually owned.
   (e)   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied by two
families.
   (f)   DWELLING UNIT. Space within a building comprising living, dining and
sleeping rooms, storage closets and space and equipment for cooking, bathing
and toilet facilities, all used by one family and its household employees.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.70 EASEMENT.
   Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for a
specified purpose, of any designated part of his or her property.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.71 ELDERLY HOUSEHOLD.
   Not more than three persons, related or unrelated, who occupy a single
dwelling unit, of whom at least one person is elderly.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.72 ELDERLY HOUSING FACILITY.
   A building or buildings containing 12 or more dwelling units where occupancy
is restricted to elderly persons or households. The facilities may include
emergency first aid care, day-care, therapy, personal care, nursing facilities,
recreational facilities and provide for independent or semi-independent living.
For the purposes of this definition, ELDERLY HOUSING FACILITY shall not include
convalescent homes, nursing homes, group homes or homes for the aged.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.73 ELDERLY PERSON.
   Any person who is 62 years of age or older, or any person under 62 years of
age who is disabled so that his or her physical impairments are of a long-term
duration and impede his or her ability to live independently without a suitable
housing environment.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.74 ENGINEER.
   Any person registered to practice professional engineering by the State
Board of Registration as specified in R.C. § 4733.14.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.75 FACTORY-BUILT HOUSING.
   A factory-built structure designed for long-term residential use, the
components of which are essentially constructed or assembled prior to its
delivery to and installation upon a site. For the purposes of this Zoning
Ordinance, FACTORY- BUILT HOUSING shall include the following.
   (a)   MANUFACTURED HOME. Any nonself- propelled vehicle transportable in one
or more sections which, in the traveling mode, is eight-body feet or more in
width or 40 body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or
more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be
used as a dwelling unit with or without a permanent foundation when connected
to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning
and electrical systems contained therein, which bears a label certifying that
it is built in compliance with Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and
Safety Standards, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
   (b)   MOBILE HOME. Any nonself-propelled vehicle so designed, constructed,
reconstructed or added to by means of accessories in a manner as will permit
the use and occupancy thereof for human habitation, when connected to
utilities, whether resting  on wheels, jacks, blocks or other temporary
foundation and used or so construed as to permit its being used as a conveyance
upon the public streets and highways and exceeding a gross weight of 4,500
pounds and an overall length of 30 feet, and not in compliance with the Federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974.
   (c)   MODULAR HOME. Factory-built housing certified as meeting the local or
State Building Code as applicable to modular housing. Once certified by the
state, MODULAR HOMES shall be subject to the same standards as site-built
homes.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.76 FAMILY.
   A person living alone, or two or more persons related by blood or marriage
living together as a housekeeping unit, and occupying a single dwelling unit,
or a group of not more than four persons, who need not be related by blood or
marriage, living together as a housekeeping unit by joint agreement and
occupying a single dwelling unit on a nonprofit cost sharing basis.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.77 FEMA FLOODPLAIN.
   The land designated on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), including the
flood fringe and the floodway, that is subject to inundation by a regional
flood, as further defined in Floodplain Management Regulations
Chapter 1169.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.78 FENCE, ORNAMENTAL.
   A fence or structure intended for decoration and not intended as an
enclosure, and which has a surface area that is less than 30% opaque.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.79 FLEET VEHICLE.
   A vehicle, generally a van or truck, used in the operation of a business
with a company identification on the exterior of the vehicle in the form of a
logo or written text. A passenger vehicle including an automobile, van, sport
utility or other, with no exterior company identification, shall not be
considered a FLEET VEHICLE.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.80 FLOOR AREA OF A NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING.
   The floor area of the specified use excluding stairs, washrooms, elevator
shafts, maintenance shafts and rooms, storage spaces, display windows and
fitting rooms, and similar areas.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.81 FLOOR AREA OF A RESIDENTIAL BUILDING.
   The sum of the gross horizontal area of the several floors of a residential
building, excluding basement floor areas not devoted to residential use, but
including the area of roofed porches and roofed terraces. All dimensions shall
be measured between interior faces of walls.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.82 FRONTAGE.
   All the property on one side of the street or the place between two
intersecting places, crossing or terminating, measured along the line of the
street or place, or if the street is dead ended, then all the property abutting
on one side between an intersecting street or place in the dead end of the
street or place, but not including the dead end of the street. It can also mean
the length of the property line of any one premises parallel to and along each
public right-of- way it borders.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.83 GARAGES.
   (a)   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building designed or used for the
temporary storage of motor driven vehicles, travel trailers and boats that are
owned by the occupants of the building to which it is an accessory.
   (b)   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building or portion thereof, other than a private
garage, designed or used for servicing, repairing, equipping, hiring, selling
or storing motor-driven vehicles.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.84 GOLF COURSE.
   A golf course consisting of a minimum of nine holes, including all greens,
tees, fairways, bunkers, traps and water hazards typically included in a golf
course layout. GOLF COURSE shall not include miniature or putt-putt courses.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.85 GROUP HOMES.
   (a)   ADULT FAMILY HOME. A residential facility that provides accommodations
to three to five unrelated adults and supervision and personal care services to
at least three of those adults.
   (b)   ADULT GROUP HOME. A residential facility that provides accommodations
to six to 16 unrelated adults and supervision and personal care services to at
least three of those adults.
   (c)   FAMILY HOME. A residential facility that provides room and board,
personal care, rehabilitation services and supervision in a family setting for
at least six but not more than eight mentally retarded or developmentally
disabled persons.
   (d)   FOSTER FAMILY HOME. A residential facility that provides room and
board, personal care, rehabilitation services and supervision in a family
setting for not more than five mentally retarded or developmentally disabled
persons.
   (e)   FOSTER HOME. A family home in which any child is received apart from
his or her parents for care, supervision or training.
   (f)   GROUP HOME. A residential facility that provides room and board,
personal care, rehabilitation services and supervision in a family setting for
at least nine but not more than 16 mentally retarded or developmentally
disabled persons.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.86 HOME-BASED BARBER SHOP OR BEAUTY SALON.
   A business located in a single-family district which is accessory to the
residence and exclusively operated and owned by the property owners for the
purpose of cutting and/or styling hair. The business shall be located in a
portion of the residence or in an accessory building.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.87 HOME OCCUPATION.
   An accessory use which is an activity, profession, occupation, service,
craft or revenue-enhancing hobby which is clearly incidental and subordinate to
the use of the premises as a dwelling, and is conducted entirely within the
dwelling unit, or elsewhere on the premises by zoning certificate, without any
significant adverse effect upon the surrounding neighborhood.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.88 HOSPITAL, HEALTH CARE FACILITY.
   An institution providing health services primarily for in-patient medical or
surgical care of the sick or injured and including related facilities such as
laboratories, out-patient department, training, facilities, central service
facilities and staff offices which are integral part of the facility.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.89 HOTEL.
   A building open to the public and used as an abiding place for compensation
lodged with or without meals.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.90 IMPERVIOUS SURFACE.
   Any material including, but not limited to, buildings, roads, sidewalks,
patios and parking areas, but excluding gravel, that reduces and prevents
absorption of stormwater into previously undeveloped land.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.91 IMPERVIOUS SURFACE RATIO.
   The area of a site occupied by impervious surfaces divided by the area of
the entire site and expressed as a decimal or percentage. For example: 25,000
square feet impervious surface/50,000 square feet of total site area = .5 or
50%
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.92 IMPROVEMENTS.
   Any construction, reconstruction, improvement, enlargement, alteration,
demolition or repair of any highway, drainage system, water system, road,
street, alley, sewer, ditch, storm drain, street light, flood control and
drainage facility, utility line, landscaping and any other structure or work of
any nature normally associated with the development of raw land into building
sites.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.93 JUNKYARD.
   A place where waste, discarded or salvaged materials are bought, sold,
exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled or handled; including auto wrecking
yards, house wrecking yards, used material yards, but not including places for
the sale, purchase or storage of used furniture and household equipment, used
cars in operable condition or salvaged materials incidental to manufacturing
operations.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.94 KENNEL.
   Any structure or premises on which five or more domesticated animals are
groomed, bred, boarded and/or trained for compensation and may be offered minor
medical treatment.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.95 LANDOMINIUM.
   A building consisting of one or more dwelling units with varying
arrangements of entrances and configuration of structure. Its chief
characteristic is that each resident enjoys exclusive ownership of his or her
individual unit and some portion of land. Each unit owner also retains an
undivided interest in certain common facilities and areas.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.96 LANDSCAPE ORDINANCE.
   
Chapter 939 of the codified ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.97 LOT.
   (a)   LOT. A parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum
zoning requirements for use, coverage and/or area, and to provide the yards and
other open spaces as are herein required. The lot shall have frontage on an
improved public or private street, and may consist of:
      (1)   A single lot of record;
      (2)   A portion of a lot of record;
      (3)   A combination of complete lots of record, of complete lots of
record and portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots of record,
provided that it is recorded as one lot; or
      (4)   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds description,
provided that in no case of division or combination shall any residual lot or
parcel be created which does not meet the requirements of this Zoning
Ordinance.
   (b)   LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion
nearest the street. For the purpose of determining yard requirements on corner
lots and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be
considered frontage and yards shall be provided as indicated under yards in §
1133.170.
   (c)   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot.
   (d)   LOT MEASUREMENTS. See Figure 1133.01.
      (1)   AREA OF A LOT. Shall be computed from the area contained in
horizontal plane defined by the lot lines.
      (2)   DEPTH OF A LOT. The distance between the midpoints of straight
lines connecting the foremost points of the side lot lines in front and the
rearmost points of the side lot lines in the rear.
      (3)   FLAG LOT. A more efficient building lot configuration designed to
allow an interior lot access to a right-of-way or where natural or other
limitations would restrict a full lot width at the street frontage.
      (4)   WIDTH OF A LOT. The distance between straight lines connecting
front
   and rear lot lines at each side of the lot measured across the rear of the
required front yard, provided, however, that width between side lot lines at
their foremost points (where they intersect with the street line) shall not be
less than 80% of the required lot width except in the case of lots on the
turning circle of cul-de-sacs, where the 80% requirements shall not apply.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c92b507198cac9540f9ff13dca280883e1007fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3834.jpg]
   Figure 1133.01 - Lot Measurements Illustrated
   (e)   LOT, RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the map of which
has been recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Warren County, Ohio,
or of a lot described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been
recorded in the office.
   (f)   LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets.
A lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a CORNER LOT
if straight lines drawn from the furthermost points of the side lot lines to
the foremost points of the side lines to the foremost point of the lot meet at
an interior angle of less than 135 degrees. See Figure 1133.02.
   (g)   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage on
a street other than an alley. See Figure 1133.02.
   (h)   LOT, REVERSED FRONTAGE. A lot in which the frontage is at right
angles, or approximately right angles, to the general pattern in the area
involved. A reversed frontage lot may also be a corner lot or an interior lot.
See Figure 1133.02.
   (i)   LOT, THROUGH. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more than
one street other than an alley. THROUGH LOTS with frontage on two streets may
be referred to as double frontage lots. See Figure 1133.02.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c92b507198cac9540f9ff13dca280883e1007fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3838.jpg]
 
   Figure 1133.02 - Lot Types Illustrated
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.98 MAINTENANCE BOND.
   A one- to two-year surety given to the city by the subdivider that
guarantees the subdivision’s physical improvements against workmanship and
materials defects after the city has accepted the improvements.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.99 MAY.
   A term indicating a permissive requirement.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.100 MICRO ANTENNAS.
   Any cellular or wireless communications antennas which consist solely of the
antenna, and which do not have any supporting structures other than brackets,
including micro cells. Micro antennas shall be equal to or less than five feet
in height and with an area of not more than 580 square inches.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.101 MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   A division of a parcel of land not requiring a plat to be approved by the
Planning Commission according to R.C. § 711.131. The parcel shall be subject to
the requirements set forth in
Chapter 1114 of the Subdivision Regulations.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.102 MOBILE HOME PARK.
   Any site, or tract of land under single ownership, upon which three or more
mobile homes used for habitation are parked, either free of charge or for
revenue purposes; including any roadway, building, structure, vehicle or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the facilities of the park. All
developments of this nature fall under the jurisdiction of the Warren County
Health District, and are subject to the regulations thereof.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.103 MOTEL.
   A series of attached or detached sleeping or living units, for the lodging
of transient guests, offered to the public for compensation, and with
convenient access of off-street parking spaces for the exclusive use of the
guests or occupants.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.104 MONUMENTS.
   Permanent concrete or iron markers used to establish definitely lines of the
plat of a subdivision, including lot corners, boundary line corners and points
of change in street alignment.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.105 NOISE ORDINANCE.
   
Chapter 511 of the codified ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.106 NONCONFORMING USE.
   Lots, uses of land, structures and uses of structures and land in
combination lawfully existing at the time of enactment of this chapter or its
amendments which do not conform to the regulations of the district or zone in
which they are situated, and are therefore incompatible.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.107 NURSING HOME.
   An extended or intermediate care facility that provides skilled nursing or
dietary care for persons who are ill or which provides services for the
rehabilitation of persons who are convalescing from illness or incapacitation.
The term CONVALESCENT HOME is used synonymously with NURSING HOME. NURSING HOME
excludes homes or similar institutions or facilities for persons suffering from
acute or chronic alcoholism or other drug dependency,  or for persons who are
mentally incapacitated from causes other than senility who regularly require
supervision.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.108 OCCUPANCY.
   The purpose for which a building or portion thereof is used.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.109 OCCUPIABLE SPACE.
   A room or enclosed space designed for human occupancy in which individuals
congregate for amusement, educational or similar purposes, or in which
occupants are engaged at labor; and which is equipped with means of egress and
light and ventilation facilities meeting the requirements of this code.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.110 OPEN SPACE.
   An area substantially open to the sky that may be on the same lot with a
building and be of reasonable size and location to conduct recreational or
leisure activity. The area may include, along with the natural environmental
features, water areas, swimming pools, tennis courts, parking areas that serve
the open space, and any other recreational facilities that the Planning
Commission deems permissive. Retention and detention ponds may be included if
partially dedicated to recreational use. Streets, parking areas not dedicated
to open space, structures for habitation and the like shall not be included.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.111 OPEN SPACE RATIO.
   The area of a site used for open space, excluding land for right-of-way,
divided by the gross site area and expressed as a decimal or percentage. For
example: 25 acres open space/100 acres gross site area = .25 or 25%
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.112 ORIGINAL PARCEL.
   The contiguous land under the same ownership at the time the parcel or
parcels were acquired.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.113 O.R.C.
   An abbreviation for the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.114 OUT LOT.
   Property shown on the subdivision plat and which is not part of the proposed
plat.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.115 OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   A district described by the zoning map within which, through superimposition
of a special designation, further regulations and requirements apply in
addition to those of the underlying districts to which the designation is
added.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.116 PARCEL.
   Any piece of land described by a current deed.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.117 PARKING AREA.
   Any public or private area, under or outside of a building or structure,
designed and used for parking motor vehicles including parking lots, garages,
private driveways, and legally designated areas of public streets.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.118 PARKING LOT.
   An off-street, ground-level open area, usually improved, for the temporary
storage of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.119 PARKING SPACE.
   An area of land with a paved surface of asphaltic concrete or concrete, both
as defined in
Chapter 901 of the codified ordinances, suitable in thickness and size to
permit the parking or storage of one motor vehicle and which area is connected
by a paved driveway to a street or alley of sufficient width to permit ingress
and egress of an automobile or other larger motor vehicles.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.120 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   A certificate or evidence of debt, based on an estimate of construction cost
approved by the City Engineer, guaranteeing the completion of physical
improvements, which protects the city against loss due to inability or refusal
of an individual, subdivider or contractor to perform his or her obligation.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.121 PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES.
   Commercial mobile services, unlicensed wireless services and common carrier
wireless exchange access services, including cellular services.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.122 PLACE.
   An open unoccupied space other than a street or alley permanently reserved
as the principal means of access to abutting property.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.123 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   An area of land in which a variety of housing, recreational, commercial and/
or industrial facilities are accommodated in a pre-planned environment under
more flexible standards, such as lot sizes and setbacks, than those
restrictions that would normally apply under these regulations. Requirements
for the development in addition to those of the standard subdivision, such as
building design principles and landscaping plans, are contained in
Chapter 1161.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.124 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission of the city as established by Article VII, § 7.01 of
the Charter of the city.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.125 PLAT.
   A map or drawing showing the plan of the subdivision of a tract or parcel of
land.
   (a)   FINAL PLAT. The map or set of maps which presents all data required by
these regulations and bears substantial conformance to the preliminary plat as
determined by the Planning Commission. A final plat submittal includes all
improvement and drainage plans required for the subdivision. When approved, the
plat is signed by Planning Commission, City Council, the City Engineer and
other appropriate county officials or agencies and is recorded by the Warren
County Recorder as a permanent record.
   (b)   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The map or set of maps which presents the proposed
subdivision design, along with all of the information required in these
regulations, which enables the Planning Commission to accurately review the
proposal. Approval of the preliminary plat by Planning Commission and City
Council entitles the subdivider to prepare a final plat for construction and
recording of the subdivision.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.126 PUBLIC UTILITY.
   A firm, association, syndicate, corporation, co- partnership, municipal
authority or public agency, board or commission, duly authorized to furnish and
furnishing under governmental regulations, to the public: facilities, products
or services such as gas, steam, electricity, sewage disposal, communications,
transportation, water and the like.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.127 PUBLIC WAY.
   An alley, avenue, boulevard, bridge, channel, ditch, easement, expressway,
highway, parkway, right-of-way, road, sidewalk, street, subway, tunnel,
viaduct, land, walk or other way in which the general public or a public entity
has a right for transportation or pedestrian purposes or which is dedicated
thus, whether improved or not.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.128 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   All repairs and maintenance determined by the City Engineer to be necessary
to ensure the safety and convenience of the users of the improvements and
includes, but is not limited to: removal of ice, snow, dirt, mud, obstructions
and debris; repairing broken or damaged sewer and water lines; and repairing
potholes, broken or spalled rigid and/or flexible pavement.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.129 RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN OR DRIVE-THROUGH.
   Any eating and/or drinking establishment designed for food and/or drinks to
be consumed by persons in vehicles parked on the premises or to be taken off-
site.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.130 RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD.
   An establishment whose principal business is the sale of food and/or
beverages in a ready-to-consume state and whose principal method of operation
includes the delivery to customers of food and/or beverages served in eatable
containers or in paper, plastic or other disposable containers for consumption:
   (a)   Within the restaurant building;
   (b)   Within a motor vehicle parked on the premises; or
   (c)   Off the premises, as carry-out orders.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.131 RESTAURANT, STANDARD.
   An establishment whose principal business is the sale of food and/or
beverages to customers in a ready- to-consume state, and whose principal method
of operation includes one or both of the following characteristics:
   (a)   Customers, normally provided with an individual menu, are served their
food and beverages by a restaurant employee at the same table or counter at
which food and beverages are consumed; or
   (b)   A cafeteria-type operation where food and beverages generally are
consumed within the restaurant building.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.132 RETAIL.
   (a)   Franchise or formula retail. A type of retail sales activity or retail
sales establishment which, along with 11 or more other retail sales
establishments located in the United States, maintains two or more of the
following features: a standardized array of merchandise, a standardized facade,
a standardized decor and color scheme, a uniform apparel, standardized signage,
a trademark or a servicemark.
   (b)   Large scale retail establishment. A single building or one or more
attached or detached buildings including shopping centers that include
permitted retail and related uses with a combined building area of 20,000
square feet or more.
(Ord. 2006-81, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 1133.133 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Land taken or dedicated for use as a public way. In addition, it normally
incorporates the curbs, lawn strips, sidewalks, lighting and drainage
facilities; and may also include special features (required by the topography
or treatment) such as grade separation, landscaped areas, viaducts and bridges.
Public streets and roads are RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.134 ROADWAY.
   The paved area between the edges of right-of- way bounding every public way
and that is to be used for vehicular traffic. Unpaved and paved shoulders are
included in a ROADWAY.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.135 SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   A public or private sewerage collection system that conveys sewage to a
central sewage treatment plant approved by the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.136 SCHOOL, PRIMARY, SECONDARY, COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY.
   Any school having regular sessions with regularly employed instructors
teaching subjects which are fundamental and essential for a general academic
education, under the supervision of, and in accordance with the applicable
statutes of the state.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.137 SETBACK.
   (a)   SETBACK, FRONT. A line that is generally parallel to the front
property line and that defines the minimum distance from the property line that
any building, structure or other use may be constructed or placed.
   (b)   SETBACK, REAR. A line that is generally parallel to the rear property
line and that defines the minimum distance from the property line that any
building, structure or other use may be constructed or placed.
   (c)   SETBACK, SIDE. A line that is generally parallel to the side property
line and that defines the
minimum distance from the property line that any building, structure or other
use may be constructed or placed.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.138 SHALL.
   A term indicating a mandatory requirement.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.139 SHOULD.
   A term indicating a preferred requirement.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.140 SHOPPING CENTER, COMMERCIAL.
   A group of commercial establishments and businesses permitted in the B-
2 district.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.141 SHOPPING CENTER, NEIGHBORHOOD.
   A group of small convenience shops such as carry-outs, located in or
adjacent to residential areas.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.142 SIGHT DISTANCE.
   (a)   The sight distances as defined in the most recent edition of the Ohio
Department of Transportation’s Location and Design Manual, Volume I, § 201.1,
which, at the time of the adoption of this chapter, stated:
      (1)   STOPPING SIGHT DISTANCE (SSD). The distance a motorist should be
able to see ahead so that he or she will be able to stop from a given design
speed, short of an obstruction or foreign object.
      (2)   INTERSECTION SIGHT DISTANCE (ISD). The distance a motorist should
be able to see other traffic operation on the intersected highway so that he or
she can enter or cross the highway safely.
      (3)   PASSING SIGHT DISTANCE (PSD). The distance a motorist should be
able to observe oncoming traffic on a two- lane, two-way road so that he or she
can pass a vehicle safely.
   (b)   If the definitions are revised by the Ohio Department of
Transportation, the revised definitions shall apply.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.143 SIGNS.
   (a)   ADVERTISING SIGN. A sign that directs attention to a business,
product, activity or service which is not conducted, sold or offered upon the
premises where such sign is located.
   (b)   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign, which, by method or manner of illumination,
flashes on and off, winks, or blinks varying light intensity, shows motion, or
creates the illusion of motion or revolves in a manner to create the illusion
of moving.
   (c)   AREA. The entire area within a single continuous perimeter enclosing
the extreme limits of writing, representation, emblem, or any figure of similar
character together with any frame or other material or color forming an
integral part of the display or used to differentiate such sign from the
background against which it is placed. The necessary supports or uprights on
which such sign is placed, not being advertising matter, shall not be included
in computation of surface area.
   (d)   AWNING, CANOPY OR MARQUEE.  A sign that is mounted on, painted on, or
attached to an awning, canopy or marquee (see Figure 1133.3).
   (e)   BANNER. A sign made of fabric, plastic, paper or other non-ridged
material with no enclosing framework.
   (f)   BALLOON. A nonporous bag of light material filled with air or heated
air or a gas lighter than air intended to be either flown in the atmosphere or
placed stationary on the ground or a structure, connected to the ground or
structure by a rope, string, ribbon or wire.
   (g)   BALLOON SIGN. One or more balloons used as a permanent or temporary
sign or as a means to direct attention to any business or profession or
commodity or service sold, offered or manufactured.
   (h)   BUILDING CODE. The City Building Code as may be adopted and amended
from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
   (i)   BUSINESS. A sign, which directs attention to a business, profession,
service, product or activity sold or offered upon the premises where such sign
is located.
   (j)   CHANGEABLE COPY. A sign or portion thereof designed to periodically
accommodate message or price changes. CHANGEABLE COPY SIGNS include the
following:
      (1)   Electronically controlled signs;
      (2)   Manually controlled signs for business purposes;
      (3)   Manually controlled bulletin board sign located on the property of
a public, institutional, religious or charitable organization which are used to
identify the name of the institution or organization and to announce its
activities; and
      (4)   Manually or electronically controlled gasoline price signs.
   (k)   COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Any sign, wording, logo, or other representation
that, directly or indirectly, names, advertises or calls attention to a
business, product, service or other commercial activity.
   (l)   CONSTRUCTION. A sign advertising the development or improvement of a
property by a  builder, contractor or other person furnishing services,
material or labor to the premises, which sign is intended for a limited period
of display and erected on the same lot or parcel as the work being done.
   (m)   DIRECTIONAL. A sign directing vehicular or pedestrian movement onto or
within a premise with no identification or commercial advertising on the sign.
   (n)   DIRECTORY SIGN. A ground or wall sign that lists tenants or occupants
of a building or project, with unit numbers, arrows or other directional
information.
   (o)   DOMESTIC ADVERTISING. A sign advertising the sale of household goods
previously used by an individual or his or her family, when such sign is
located at the place of residence of the individual or family.
   (p)   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD. Any sign that uses changing lights to form a
sign message or messages wherein the sequence of messages and the rate of
change is electronically programmed and can be modified by electronic
processes.
   (q)   FESTOON. A string of ribbons, tinsels, small flags, pinwheels or
lights typically strung overhead in loops.
   (r)   FLAG. A banner of distinctive design used as a symbol of a nation,
state or other governmental entity.
   (s)   FLASHING. Any illuminated sign on which the artificial light or any
part thereof has conspicuous or intermittent variation in intensity or color.
   (t)   FREESTANDING. A sign supported by one or more uprights, poles, braces,
or bases in or upon the ground, and not attached to any building (see Figure
1133.3 below). FREESTANDING signs include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   BULLETIN BOARD. A structure containing a surface upon which is
displayed the name of a religious institution, school or library, auditorium,
stadium, athletic field or area of similar use for the announcement of services
or activities to be held therein.
      (2)   GROUND MOUNTED SIGN. A three- dimensional, self supporting, base
mounted, freestanding sign, consisting of two or more sides extending up from
the base, and upon which a message is displayed.
      (3)   MONUMENT SIGN. A freestanding sign supported by a base anchored in
the ground located in close proximity to the entrances of an office or
industrial park provided that the entrance into the office or industrial park
is a public thoroughfare. A MONUMENT SIGN is an integrated component of an
overall entryway design theme that typically includes landscaping, lighting and
signage.
      (4)   POLE SIGN. A freestanding sign that is mounted on or supported by
one or more uprights, pylons or poles located in or upon the ground so that the
bottom edge of the sign is above grade.
   (u)   FRONTAGE, BUILDING. The length of the portion of a building occupied
by a single business facing a street abutting the premises on which the
business is located.
   (v)   GASOLINE PRICE SIGN. A sign which is used to advertise the price of
gasoline on-site. In the event that the brand identification sign is attached
to or is a part of the gasoline price sign advertising price, that portion of
the sign used for advertising price shall be considered the GASOLINE PRICE
SIGN. However, the GASOLINE PRICE SIGN shall be counted as part of the total
sign area whether or not the gasoline price sign is attached to other signs.
   (w)   GOVERNMENTAL. A sign erected and maintained pursuant to and in
discharge of any  governmental functions, or required by law, resolution or
other governmental regulation.
   (x)   HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the uppermost point used in
measuring the area of the sign to the centerline of the road on which the
property fronts or the elevation of the base of the sign, whichever is lowest.
   (y)   HOLIDAY DECORATION. Temporary signs, in the nature of decorations,
clearly incidental to and customarily and commonly associated with any
national, local or religious holiday.
   (z)   IDENTIFICATION. A sign limited to the name, address and number of a
building, institution or persons and to the activity carried on in the building
or institution, or the occupancy of the person.
   (aa)   ILLUMINATION. Any sign illuminated by electricity, gas or other
artificial light including reflecting or phosphorescent light.
      (1)   EXTERNAL ILLUMINATION. A light source external to a sign that is
not seen directly and is shielded from view.
      (2)   INTERNAL ILLUMINATION. A light source concealed or contained within
the sign, and which becomes visible in darkness through a translucent surface.
   (bb)   INCIDENTAL. A small sign, emblem, or decal informing the public of
goods, services, available on the premises. Examples of INCIDENTAL SIGNS
include credit card signs, signs indicating hours of operations, no smoking
signs, signs used to designate bathrooms and business affiliation signs (see
Figure 1133.3 below).
   (cc)   INTERIOR, EXTERIOR. The following: interior signs are located within
a structure, and are not intended to be seen from the exterior; signs affixed
to a window or the walls enclosing the display area behind a window, which are
obviously intended
for viewing from the exterior, shall be considered exterior signs.
   (dd)   MARQUEE. A permanent roof like structure or canopy supported by and
extending from the face of the building. The sign is attached to or supported
by the marquee structure.
   (ee)   MEMORIAL. A sign, tablet or plaque memorializing a person, event,
structure or site.
   (ff)   NAME PLATE. A sign designating only the name and address or the name
and professional occupation and address of a person or persons residing in or
occupying space in such building or premises.
   (gg)   OFF-PREMISE ADVERTISING. A sign which contains a message unrelated to
a business, profession, commodity, service, activity, sold or offered upon the
premises where such sign is located. A billboard is a type of OFF-PREMISE
ADVERTISING SIGN.
   (hh)   ON-PREMISES ADVERTISING. Any sign related to a business or profession
conducted or a commodity or service sold or offered upon the premises where
such sign is located.
   (ii)   ON-SITE INFORMATIONAL. A sign commonly associated with, and not
limited to, information and directions necessary or convenient for visitors
coming on the property including signs marking entrances and exits, parking
areas, circulation direction, restrooms, and pick-up and delivery areas.
   (jj)   POLITICAL. A sign which promotes, identifies, announces, opposes, or
otherwise offers the public consideration of any political candidate or issue,
partisan or nonpartisan.
   (kk)   PORTABLE. A sign that is attached to wheels, skids, or other forms of
mounting, which is not permanently affixed in or to the ground (see Figure
1133.3 below). Examples include but are not limited to:
      (1)   CHANGEABLE COPY PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign that is designed to be
moved and has a sign face or sign faces that hold changeable copy letters to
create various messages. These signs may or may not have wheels.
      (2)   FOLDING PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign supported by an A-frame or T- frame
base which is designed to be easily movable and is intended for advertising
price and/or incidental goods or services.
      (3)   TRAILER SIGN. Any sign attached to, supported by or part of a
structure which is designed to be moved on trailer wheels, skids, or other
similar device or transported, pushed or pulled by a motor vehicle.
   (ll)   PROJECTING. A sign affixed to any building or part thereof, or
structure, extending beyond the building wall or parts thereof, or structure,
by more than 12 inches (see Figure 1133.3 below). A PROJECTING SIGN shall not
include a ground or wall sign as herein defined.
   (mm)   PROMOTION. A temporary sign, the function of which is to announce a
special event. PROMOTION SIGNS may advertise grand openings, festivals, annual
events and the like.
   (nn)   REAL ESTATE. A sign advertising for sale, lease, or rent the parcel
or real estate on which the sign is located. Also, temporary directional signs
less than four square feet in message area displayed during the hours in which
an “open house” showing of real property for sale, lease or rent is actually
being conducted shall be considered real estate signs, even though they may not
be located on the parcel of real estate being advertised. “Sold” signs shall be
considered commercial advertising signs.
   (oo)   RESIDENTIAL ENTRANCEWAY SIGN. A type of monument sign located at the
entrance or entrances of residential subdivisions that incorporate high quality
building materials and landscaping to create a uniquely identifiable landmark
for the subdivision.
   (pp)   ROOF-MOUNTED. Any sign which is erected over the roof or parapet
above the roof-line and/or receives any or all its support from the roof
structure.
   (qq)   SIGN. A name, identification, description, display or illustration
which is affixed to or painted upon or represented directly or indirectly upon
a building, structure, or piece of land; or affixed to the glass on the outside
or inside of a window so as to be seen from the outside of a building and which
directs attention to an object, product, place, activity, person, institution,
organization or business.
   (rr)   SIGNATURE WALL SIGN. A wall sign typically placed beneath the roof
line of an industrial or office building wall facing an interstate highway for
the sole purpose of advertising a company name or logo to a regional audience.
   (ss)   STREAMER. A long, narrow ribbon-like flag.
   (tt)   STRUCTURE, SIGN. The supports, uprights, bracing or framework for
signs.
   (uu)   TEMPORARY. A banner, pennant, poster display, or illustration which
is affixed to or painted upon or represented directly or indirectly upon a
building, structure or piece of land and which directs attention to an object,
product, place, person, institution, organization, or business and is
constructed of cloth, plastic sheet, cardboard, or other like materials and
which is intended to be displayed for a limited period of time (see Figure
1133.3 below).
   (vv)   WALL. Any sign painted on, attached to, or erected against the wall
of a building or structure, with the exposed face of the sign in a plane
parallel to the plane of the wall and extending not more than 15 inches from
the face of the wall.
   (ww)   WARNING. Any sign indicating danger or a situation which is
potentially dangerous.
   (xx)   WINDOW, PERMANENT. Any sign visible from the exterior of a building
or structure which is painted, attached, glued or otherwise affixed to a window
or depicted upon a card, paper, or other material and placed on, taped on, or
hung immediately behind the window or displayed from a window for the specific
purpose of identifying the proprietor or name of business to the passer-by (see
Figure 1133.3 below).
   (yy)   WINDOW, TEMPORARY. Any sign visible from the exterior of a building
or structure which is painted on a window, depicted upon a card, paper, or
other material or placed on, taped on, or hung immediately behind the window,
or displayed from a window for the specific purpose of attracting attention of
the passer-by to a sale, or to promotional items, or other products or
services.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c92b507198cac9540f9ff13dca280883e1007fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3842.jpg]
   Figure 1133.3 Sign Types Illustrated
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 2003-99, passed 10-8-2003; Am. Ord. 2011-
64, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 1133.144 SMALL CELL FACILITY.
   Small cell facilities are between twenty (20) feet and thirty (30) feet in
height, including distributed antenna systems (DAS) and small cell sites,
communication nodes, antennas, fiber-optic cables, radio transceivers, and any
additional equipment associated with transmission, which are typically used to
supplement the service of larger communication towers and reduce the need for
additional larger telecommunication towers.
(Ord. 2016-69, passed 9–12-2016)
§ 1133.145 STABLES.
   (a)   STABLE, PRIVATE. A stable with a capacity for not more than two horses
or mules.
   (b)   STABLE, PUBLIC. A stable other than a private stable, with a capacity
for three or more animals.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.146 STANDARD CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS.
   Construction drawings prepared by the City Engineer and Public Utilities
Director in accordance with and supplemental to the Subdivision Regulations.
The standard construction drawings by reference are made part of the
Subdivision Regulations.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000; Am. Ord. 2011-64, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 1133.147 STORY.
   (a)   HALF-STORY. A space under a sloping roof which has the line of
intersection of roof decking and wall face not more than three feet above the
top floor level, and in which space not more than two-thirds of the floor area
is finished off for use. A HALF-STORY containing independent apartment or
living quarters shall be counted as a full story.
   (b)   STORY. The portion of a building, other than a basement, between the
surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or, if there
is no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next
above it.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.148 STREET.
   A publicly dedicated thoroughfare serving as the principal means of access
to abutting property.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.149 STREET TREE ORDINANCE.
   
Chapter 939 of the codified ordinances of the City of Mason.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.150 STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS.
   Any change in the supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls or
partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any substantial change in the roof or
in the exterior walls.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.151 STRUCTURE.
   Anything constructed or erected, the intended use of which requires
permanent or stationary location on the ground or which is attached to
something having a permanent or stationary location on the ground, including
paved areas and signs.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.152 SUBDIVIDER.
   Any individual, contractor, developer, firm, association, syndicate,
partnership, corporation, trust or any other legal entity who, as the result of
subdividing property, is obligated to commence proceedings under the
Subdivision Regulations to effect a subdivision of land hereunder for himself,
herself or for another.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.153 SUBDIVIDER’S CONTRACT.
   An agreement by a subdivider or developer with the city for guaranteeing the
completion of physical improvements according to the approved plans and
specifications and within the time prescribed by the contract, in accordance
with these regulations.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.154 SUBDIVISION.
   (a)   The division of any parcel of land shown as a unit or as contiguous
units on the preceding tax roll, into two or more parcels, sites or lots, any
one of which is less than five acres, for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of transfer of ownership; provided, however, that the division or
partition of land into parcels of more than five acres, each not involving any
new streets or easements of access, and the sale or exchange of parcels between
adjoining landowners, where the sale or exchange does not create additional
building sites, shall be exempted; or
   (b)   The improvement of one or more parcels of land for residential,
commercial or industrial structures involving the division or allocation of
land for the opening, widening or extension of any street or streets except
private streets serving industrial structures; the division or allocation of
land as open spaces for common use by owners, occupants or lease holders or as
easements for the extension and maintenance of public sewer, water, storm
drainage or other public facilities.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar definition, see R.C. § 711.001(B)
§ 1133.155 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   Title One of the City Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.156 SURVEYOR.
   Any person registered to practice surveying by the State Board of
Registration as specified in R.C. § 4733.14.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.157 SWEEPSTAKES/INTERNET CAFÉ.
   Any premises upon which any computerized sweepstakes device is located for
the use or entertainment of the public, whether or not such a premises has
other business purposes of any nature whatsoever.
(Ord. 2011-64, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 1133.158 TALL STRUCTURE.
   Any structure or building, including, but not limited to, smoke stacks,
water towers, buildings over 35 feet in height, antenna support structures of
other cellular or wireless communications companies, and other communication
towers.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.159 THOROUGHFARE, ROUTE, STREET OR ROAD.
   The full width between the edges of the right-of-way bounding every public
way with a part thereof to be used for vehicular traffic. The classifications
contained in the city’s access management regulations shall be considered a
part of this definition.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.160 THOROUGHFARE PLAN.
   The portion of the Comprehensive Development Plan adopted by City Council
indicating the general locations recommended for arterial, collector and local
thoroughfares within the appropriate jurisdiction.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.161 TOWNHOME.
   A structure containing two or more attached single-family dwellings in a
continuous row, each dwelling designed and erected as a unit on an individual
lot and separated from adjoining units by an approved masonry wall or walls.
TOWNHOUSE is used synonymously with TOWNHOME.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.162 TRACT.
   An area, parcel, site, piece of land or property that is the subject of a
development application.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.163 TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY REGULATIONS.
   
Chapter 1116 of Title One (Subdivision Regulations) of the City Zoning
Ordinance.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.164 TRUCK TERMINAL.
   Any lot or part thereof, any part of land, or any structure which is used
for the temporary parking of trucks during loading or unloading between trips;
for purposes of servicing or repairing the trucks within enclosed structures;
and for necessary warehouse space for storage of transitory freight; and upon
which the storage of freight is incidental to the primary function of motor
freight shipment.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 1133.165 USED.
   See OCCUPANCY.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 2001-04, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 1133.166 UTILITY STATION.
   Includes all utility stations and substations, not limited to, gas,
electric, water, sewer, cable and telephone.
(Ord. 2001-04, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 1133.167 VARIANCE.
   A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulation where the
modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to
conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations would result in unnecessary
and undue hardship.
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999; Ord. 2001-04, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 1133.168 VICINITY MAP.
   A drawing located on the plat which sets forth by dimensions or other means
the relationship of the proposed subdivision or use to other nearby
developments or landmarks and community facilities and services within the
city, in order to better locate and orient the area in question.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 2001-04, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 1133.169 WASTEWATER SYSTEM MASTER PLAN.
   The officially adopted master plan for the city wastewater collection system
and wastewater treatment plant.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 2001-04, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 1133.170 WATER MASTER PLAN.
   The officially adopted master plan for the city water distribution system
and water treatment plant.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 2001-04, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 1133.171 YARD.
   A required open land area unoccupied and unobstructed by any structure or
portion of a structure, provided, however, that fences, walls, signs, and
driveways may be permitted subject to limitations and regulations set forth in
this Zoning Ordinance and the Building Code.
   (a)   YARD, FRONT. The area between side lot lines across the front of a lot
and extending from the front lot line to the front of the principal building.
An accessory structure is not permitted in a FRONT YARD unless specifically
permitted in this code.
   (b)   YARD, REAR. The area between side lot lines across the rear of a lot
and extending from the rear of the principal building to the rear lot line.
   (c)   YARD, SIDE. The area extending from the principal building or
accessory structure to the side lot line on both sides of the principal
building or accessory structure between the lines establishing the front and
rear yards.
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999; Ord. 2001-04, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 1133.172 ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals for the city as established by the Article VII,
§
7.03 of the Charter of the city.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 2001-04, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 1133.173 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The person designated by the City Manager to administer and enforce zoning
regulations and related ordinances.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 2001-04, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 1133.174 ZONING CERTIFICATE.
   A document issued by the Zoning Administrator or his or her designee
authorizing the use of lots, structures, uses of land and structures and the
characteristics of the uses.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 2001-04, passed 2-12-2001)
CHAPTER 1135: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
Section
1135.01   Enforcement by Zoning Administrator
1135.02   Zoning certificates
1135.03   Informal, formal Planning Commission and special approval procedures
1135.04   Eligibility requirements for informal procedure
1135.05   Formal Planning Commission approval procedures
1135.06   Certificates of occupancy
1135.07   Violations and remedies
1135.08   Compliance
1135.09   Order to comply
1135.10   Enforcement method nonexclusive
1135.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Compliance and general regulations, see
Ch. 1171
   Conflict between zoning and building codes, see §
1301.03
   Nonconforming uses, see
Ch. 1173
   Stay of certificates or permits, see §
1137.05
Statutory reference:
   Violation of zoning ordinances, see R.C. § 713.13
§ 1135.01 ENFORCEMENT BY ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   There is hereby established the office of Zoning Administrator within the
Engineering and Building Department. It shall be the duty of the Zoning
Administrator to enforce this Zoning Ordinance in accordance with the
provisions of this Zoning Ordinance, the Landscape Ordinance, the Comprehensive
Development Plan, the Thoroughfare Plan, the Subdivision Regulations, the
access management regulations, the traffic impact study regulations, the
regulations for driveway approaches and curb cuts, the Water Master Plan, the
Wastewater System Master Plan, the standard construction drawings, the Bicycle
and Pedestrian Way Master Plan, Stormwater Regulations and any other applicable
sections of the codified ordinances of the city. All departments, officials and
public employees of the city, vested with the duty and authority to issue
permits or licenses, shall conform to the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance
and shall not issue any permit or license for any use, building or purpose in
conflict with the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance. Any permit or license
issued in conflict with the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance, shall be null
and void and shall be of no effect whatsoever.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 2001-26, passed 2-26-2001; Ord. 2004-155,
passed 1-10-2005)
§ 1135.02 ZONING CERTIFICATES.
   (a)   Required. No owner shall use or permit the use of any structure,
building or land, or part thereof, hereafter created, erected, changed,
converted or enlarged, wholly or partly, until a zoning certificate has been
issued. The zoning certificate shall show that the building or premises or a
part thereof, and the proposed use thereof, are in conformity with the
provisions of this Zoning Ordinance, the Landscape Ordinance, the Comprehensive
Development Plan, the Thoroughfare Plan, the Subdivision Regulations, the
access management regulations, the traffic impact study regulations, the
regulations for driveway approaches and curb cuts, the Water Master Plan, the
Wastewater System Master Plan, the standard construction drawings and any other
applicable sections of the codified ordinances of the city.
   (b)   Authority to proceed with construction. No excavation or construction
shall commence unless the plans, specifications and the intended use conform to
the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance and authority to proceed is granted by
the City Engineer or his or her agent.
   (c)   Nonconforming uses. A zoning certificate shall be required of all
nonconforming uses showing thereon the nature, extent and status of the
nonconforming use. Application for the zoning certificate for nonconforming
uses shall be filed within six months from the effective date of this Zoning
Ordinance. No zoning certificate shall be required for any nonconforming use
for which a zoning certificate was previously issued under Ordinance E92 of the
city and which has remained thereof a lawful nonconforming use. The fee for
this zoning certificate shall be as established and set forth in the fee
schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time. However, no fee shall be charged for a zoning
certificate where a building permit fee is paid to the Building Department or
for nonconforming uses. The fees shall be paid to the Building Department. If
the property owner fails to obtain the required zoning certificate and has not
previously obtained a zoning certificate within the six- month time period, the
nonconforming use shall be deemed to have been abandoned and any further use of
the property must comply with the provisions of the City Zoning Ordinance.
   (d)   Other permits required. Obtaining a zoning certificate shall not
excuse compliance with any and all other applicable provisions of the codified
ordinances and in the case of any conflict between the Zoning Ordinance and any
other provision, the more restrictive provision shall apply.
(Ord. 99-207, passed 1-10-2000)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 1135.03 INFORMAL, FORMAL PLANNING COMMISSION AND SPECIAL APPROVAL PROCEDURES.
   There are established three procedures to aid in the administration of this
Zoning Ordinance. They are:
   (a)   A short, informal procedure for small and essentially noncommercial
construction or reconstruction, for the refacing of existing signs, and for the
minor improvements of existing commercial establishments and apartment
complexes;
   (b)   A longer, formal procedure requiring Planning Commission approval for
larger and essentially commercial construction or reconstruction; and
   (c)   Special procedures for PUD Districts in
Chapter 1161 hereof.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1135.04 ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS FOR INFORMAL PROCEDURE.
   Qualifying persons shall utilize the procedure in this section in applying
for a zoning certificate.
   (a)   Construction, enlargement or structural alteration of the following
shall be subject to the informal procedure:
      (1)   Single-family residence or accessory structure;
      (2)   Multi-family dwelling of three units or less;
      (3)   Signs;
      (4)   Nonresidential addition up to 25% of the original floor area, not
to exceed 10,000 square feet;
      (5)   Cellular or wireless communication antennas mounted on existing
structures according to §
1188.04(a)(1); and
      (6)   Gas, electric, water, sewer, cable and telephone utility stations.
   (b)   To proceed with any of the projects listed in division (a) hereof, the
applicant shall apply for a zoning certificate by submitting to the Zoning
Administrator application fees and five copies of a site and landscape plan as
required by the landscape code and supporting drawings, drawn to scale on a
maximum 24-inch by 36-inch sheet. The site and landscape plan shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The dimensions of the proposed development. If different uses are
to be located in a building or lot, the location and dimensions of each use;
      (2)   A landscape plan, including all landscaping features of the
proposed development, including the placement of trees, flowers, shrubs and
grass, in conformance of the requirements of the Landscape Code;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all signs proposed to be located on
the proposed development;
      (4)   The location and dimensions of all parking and loading facilities,
access drives and curb cuts;
      (5)   A concise statement signed by the applicant, or in the case of a
corporation, partnership, association or other business entity, a statement
sworn to by its authorized agent, attesting that, in the event a zoning
certificate is issued for the proposed development, no other reductions,
revisions or modifications of the plan shall be made without the express
approval of the Zoning Administrator;
      (6)   Plans, representing with exactitude all building, engineering,
traffic and architectural features of the proposed development;
      (7)   Plans, representing with exactitude the placement of all utilities
upon the premises of the proposed development;
      (8)   Water management sediment control plan and stormwater management
plan according to
Chapter 1119, if required;
      (9)   Proposed methods of water supply and disposal of sanitary wastes;
      (10)   Existing topography and proposed grading plan;
      (11)   Setbacks as outlined in the Zoning Ordinance for each zone;
      (12)   Dedication of right-of-way as shown on the Thoroughfare Plan;
      (13)   Zoning of adjacent property;
      (14)   Structures outside of but within 200 feet of the property
boundary; and
      (15)   Any other drawings or information specifically required for a
particular use under any section of this Zoning Ordinance.
   (c)   Upon receipt of the drawings and information, the Zoning Administrator
shall, within 30 days of receipt:
      (1)   Make a determination as to whether the applicant meets the
requirements established in division (a) hereof;
      (2)   Determine that the proposed plan presents a unique or particularly
complex question, in which case he or she shall so advise the applicant and
require the applicant to submit his or her application to the Planning
Commission;
      (3)   Determine that the proposed plan, as submitted, or as amended by
the applicant after consultation with the Zoning Administrator, is in
conformance with this Zoning Ordinance. Upon making this determination, the
Zoning Administrator shall issue a zoning certificate; and
      (4)   Determine that the proposed plan, as submitted, or as amended by
the applicant after consultation with the Zoning Administrator, is not in
conformance with this Zoning Ordinance or deny the certificate, the
determination thereafter being communicated to the applicant along with the
reasons for denial. The applicant shall then have the right to appeal this
determination to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 2001-04, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 1135.05 FORMAL PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL PROCEDURES.
   All persons not meeting the requirements of §
1135.04 and who build upon any land or who locate, construct, reconstruct,
erect, enlarge or alter any building or structure, including signs, shall first
obtain a zoning certificate before commencing construction, reconstruction,
location, erection or alteration. The procedure for obtaining the certificate
shall be as follows.
   (a)   The applicant shall apply for a zoning certificate by submitting to
the Planning Commission application fees and 20 copies of a site plan and
supporting drawings, drawn to scale on a maximum 24-inch by 36-inch sheet and
sealed by a licensed engineer or surveyor, which site plan shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The dimensions of the proposed development. If different uses are
to be located in a building or lot, the location and dimensions of each use;
      (2)   A landscape plan, including all landscaping features of the
proposed development, including the placement of trees, flowers, shrubs and
grass, in conformance of the requirements of the Landscape Code;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all signs proposed to be located on
the proposed development;
      (4)   The location and dimensions of all parking and loading facilities,
access drives and curb cuts;
      (5)   A concise statement signed by the applicant, or in the case of a
corporation, partnership, association or other business entity, a statement
sworn to by its authorized agent, attesting that, in the event a zoning
certificate is issued for the proposed development, no other reductions,
revisions or modifications of the plan shall be made without the express
approval of the Planning Commission or in the case of replacement of sign
lettering and minor capital improvements, without the approval of the Zoning
Administrator;
      (6)   Plans, representing with exactitude all building, engineering,
traffic and architectural features of the proposed development and a traffic
impact study if determined necessary by the City Engineer;
      (7)   Plans, representing with exactitude the placement of all utilities
upon the premises of the proposed development;
      (8)   Water management sediment control plan and stormwater management
plan according to the current edition of the Mason Stormwater Manual, if
required;
      (9)   Proposed methods of water supply and disposal of sanitary wastes;
      (10)   Existing topography and proposed grading plan;
      (11)   Zoning of adjacent property;
      (12)   Structures outside of but within 200 feet of the property
boundary; and
      (13)   Any other drawings or information specifically required for a
particular use under any section of this Zoning Ordinance.
   (b)   After the City Engineer or his or her agent has received the site
plan, he or she or his or her agent shall determine whether the applicant meets
the requirements in division (a) hereof, and determine within 12 days of
submission whether or not the site plan is complete and contains the
information as set forth in division (a) above. If incomplete, the City
Engineer or his or her agent shall advise the applicant of any additional
information or plans necessary or required. The advice shall toll any time
limitations until the time as the applicant submits the required information or
plans. However, a failure to submit the information or plans within 30 days of
advice shall constitute a withdrawal of the certificate application, requiring
reapplication. After determining that the site plan is complete, the City
Engineer or his or her agent shall review the site plans to determine
conformance with this Zoning Ordinance and thence deliver the plan, along with
his or her notations and recommendations, to the Planning Commission within 20
days of determining the completeness of the site plans.
   (c)   The applicant shall then receive notification from the Planning
Commission of the time and place set for review of the site plan by the
Planning Commission, and shall appear promptly at the stated time and place,
and shall bring with him or her any other information or witnesses as are
requested by the Planning Commission, or which the applicant deems to be
helpful to a speedy and thorough review of the site plan. The applicant, his or
her agents or any witnesses called by him or her may be heard at the review.
   (d)   The Planning Commission shall review the recommendations and notations
of the City Engineer and evaluate whether or not the uses and buildings and
structures to be constructed, reconstructed, erected, located or altered as
illustrated in the site plan comply with the requirements of this Zoning
Ordinance and related city ordinances. If other standards or criteria are
required by this Zoning Ordinance to be evaluated for a specific use or
building, the evaluation thereon shall also be made. The Planning Commission
shall, at one of the next two regularly scheduled meetings after receipt of the
site plan from the City Engineer:
      (1)   Determine that additional information or plans are reasonably
necessary to make a determination;
      (2)   Approve the site plan, approve the site plan with modifications, or
approve the site plan contingent upon the approval of certain variance or
variances for items not in conformance with this Zoning Ordinance; or
      (3)   Disapprove the site plan.
   (e)   If the determination in division (d)(1) hereof is made, the time
limitation on review by the Planning Commission is tolled until the meeting
next following ten days after receipt of the additional information. If the
applicant fails to provide the information within 30 days or obtains an
extension from the City Engineer, the site plan shall be deemed withdrawn. Upon
obtaining the information, the Planning Commission shall proceed to evaluate
and make a determination under division (d) hereof.
   (f)   The determination made under division (d)(2) or (d)(3) hereof, being
an approval or disapproval of a site plan, respectively, shall be endorsed on
the plans. The endorsement may be evidenced upon the plan by rubber stamp or
similar device. An endorsement of disapproval shall be a denial by the Planning
Commission of the zoning certificate. However, if the endorsement on the site
plan sets forth a variance or variances that if granted would make the plans
conforming, and if within 90 days the applicant submits to the Zoning
Administrator satisfactory evidence that the variance or variances, and only
the variance or variances set forth in the endorsement on the plan, have been
granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals, the endorsement with accompanying
evidence shall then constitute endorsement of approval for purposes of
divisions (g) and (h) hereof.
   (g)   Upon receipt of site plans which show an endorsement of approval by
the Planning Commission, the Zoning Administrator shall place a zoning
certificate on the site plan. The placement may be made by rubber stamp or
similar device upon the site plan.
   (h)   The applicant, upon receipt of a letter of disapproval, shall have a
right of appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals afforded by the City Charter.
Where the appeal is available only the determination of the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall constitute a final order, adjudication or decision by the city.
   (i)   Failure to apply and secure building permits under the applicable
building code of the city within 180 days of the date appearing on the
endorsement of the Planning Commission on the site plan, or, if the Planning
Commission approves a schedule for securing building permits, failure to comply
with that schedule shall be deemed a revocation of the approval of the Planning
Commission of the plan, and the zoning certificate shall be deemed denied.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1135.06 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (a)   Required. No owner, lessee or tenant shall use or occupy any land or
improvements thereon without having obtained a certificate of occupancy as
required by this section. For any property use, alteration or development which
will include improvements such as street, sidewalk, utilities and similar types
of improvements, whether public or private, a certificate of occupancy shall
not be issued unless the construction of these improvements is substantially
complete, or if the improvements are not substantially complete, without
posting a performance bond in an amount and form which is acceptable to the
City Engineer. For improvements which are to be public and dedicated to the
city, a maintenance bond shall also be submitted to insure repairs for at least
a period of one year after the performance bond is released. The maintenance
bond shall be in the amount designated by the city.
   (b)   Certificate of occupancy of land. A certificate of occupancy for the
use of vacant land, or change in the use of land as herein provided, shall be
applied for before any land shall be occupied or used, and a certificate of
occupancy shall be issued within ten days after the application has been made
therefor, provided the use is in conformity with the provisions of this Zoning
Ordinance.
   (c)   Certificate of occupancy of a building.
      (1)   A certificate of occupancy of a new building or the alteration of
an existing building shall be applied for coincident with the application for a
building permit, and the certificate shall be issued within five days after the
request for same has been made in writing to the Zoning Administrator after the
erection or alteration of such, or part thereof, has been completed in
conformity with the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   Pending the issuance of a regular certificate, a temporary
certificate of occupancy may be issued for a period not exceeding six months
during the completion of the alterations or during partial occupancy of a
building pending its completion. The temporary certificate shall not be
construed as in any way altering the respective right, duties or obligations of
the owners or of the city, relating to the use or occupancy of the premises or
any other matter covered by this Zoning Ordinance, and the temporary
certificate shall not be issued except under the restrictions and provisions as
will adequately ensure the safety of the occupants.
   (d)   Contents of certificate of occupancy. The certificate of occupancy
shall state that the building or proposed use of a building or land, complies
with all the requirements stipulated by the Zoning Board of Appeals, and with
the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance. A record of all certificates shall be
kept on file in the office of the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 1135.07 VIOLATIONS AND REMEDIES.
   In case any building is or is proposed to be located, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, enlarged, changed, maintained or used, or any land is or is
proposed to be used in violation of this Zoning Ordinance or any amendment or
supplement thereto, Council, the Law Director, the Zoning Administrator of the
city, or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be specially
damaged by the violation may, in addition to other remedies provided by law,
institute appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the unlawful location,
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or
use to restrain, correct or abate the violation; to prevent the occupancy of
the building, structure or land, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct,
business or use in or about the premises.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 1135.08 COMPLIANCE.
   No person shall locate, erect, construct, reconstruct, enlarge, change,
maintain or use any building or land in violation of any of the provisions of
this Zoning Ordinance, or any amendment or supplement thereto adopted by
Council.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1135.09 ORDER TO COMPLY.
   The Zoning Administrator or his or her authorized agents may order in
writing the remedying of a condition found in violation of this chapter within
a reasonable time, or immediately in the case of imminent danger to life and
property, or if the order requires a cessation of use, the order may include an
order to vacate the premises or to remove any building or structure as a sole
exception or alternative method of remedying the condition. The order shall be
served upon the applicant for the zoning certificate, his or her agent, a
person performing work on the premises, or the occupant of the building or
portion thereof personally, or by certified mail, or by posting a copy of same
at a conspicuous place on the premises.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1135.10 ENFORCEMENT METHOD NONEXCLUSIVE.
   Enforcement by issuance of any order is not an exclusive method of
enforcement and shall not be construed as a condition precedent to or a waiver
of:
   (a)   Citation, summons, arrest, prosecution or sentencing for any violation
or violations of this chapter, including violations for which proof of the
condition to be remedied by the order constitutes an element or a portion of an
element of an offense;
   (b)   Civil actions at law or equity, including temporary restraining
orders, preliminary injunctions and permanent injunctions;
   (c)   Refusal of occupancy permit for the premises on which the condition
exists; and
   (d)   Any enforcement procedure or measure available to the city under this
chapter, other ordinances of the city or state laws.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1135.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Any person, firm or corporation, violating any of the provisions of
this Zoning Ordinance or any amendment or supplement thereto, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as set
forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven, Chapter 205 of these
codified ordinances. The amount of the fine shall be as set by ordinance from
time to time. Each and every day during which the illegal location, erection,
construction, reconstruction, enlargement, change, maintenance or use continues
beyond the expiration of the time designated in a written notice given by the
Zoning Administrator, shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (b)   Any person, firm or corporation failing to comply with a lawful order
of the Zoning Administrator shall be deemed guilty of a minor misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as set forth in the fee schedule in
Part One - Title Eleven, Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount
of the fine shall be as set by ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
CHAPTER 1137: DISTRICT CHANGES AND ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS
Section
1137.01   Initiation
1137.02   Procedure for change
1137.03   Planning Commission recommendations
1137.04   Council, hearing and final action
1137.05   Map change pending; stay of certificates or permits
Charter reference:
   Planning Commission established, see Charter §
7.01
   Planning Commission powers and duties, see Charter §
7.02
   Public hearing on zoning ordinance, see Charter §
4.13
   Referral of zoning ordinances to Planning Commission, see Charter §
4.12
Cross-reference:
   Districts and boundaries, see
Ch. 1145
   Zoning certificates, see §
1135.02
§ 1137.01 INITIATION.
   Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare or good zoning
practice requires, Council may, by ordinance, after recommendation thereon by
the Planning Commission and subject to the procedure provided in this chapter,
amend, supplement or change the regulations, district boundaries or
classifications of property, now or hereafter established by this Zoning
Ordinance or amendments thereof. It shall be the duty of the Planning
Commission to submit to Council, recommendations regarding all applications or
proposals for amendments or supplement. An amendment, supplement,
reclassification or change may be initiated by the Planning Commission on its
own motion, by motion of Council or by filing of a verified application
therefor by one or more of the owners or lessees of property within the area
proposed to be changed or affected by the proposed amendment or supplement.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1137.02 PROCEDURE FOR CHANGE.
   (a)   Applications. Applications for any change of district, boundaries or
classifications of property as shown on the Zoning Map, and for regulation
amendments, shall be submitted to the Planning Commission at its office, upon
the forms, and all shall be accompanied by data and information as may be
prescribed for that purpose by the Commission, so as to assure the fullest
practicable presentation of facts for the permanent record. The data shall
include in any event, a plat or map drawn to a scale of not less than 100 feet
to the inch, showing the land in question, its location, the length and
location of each boundary thereof, the location and existing use of all
buildings and the principal use of all properties within 300 feet of land. Each
application shall be verified by at least one of the owners or lessees of
property within the area proposed to be reclassified, attesting to the truth
and correctness of all facts and information presented with the application.
Applications for amendment or district changes initiated by the Commission or
Council shall be accompanied by a resolution of record of either body
pertaining to the proposed amendment.
   (b)   List of property owners. Any person or persons desiring a change in
the zoning classification of property shall file with the application for the
change a statement giving the names and addresses of the owners of all real
property within 300 feet of the parcel or parcels as appear on the County
Auditor’s current tax list or the Treasurer’s mailing list and other lists as
may be required by the Commission.
   (c)   Preliminary public hearing. After receiving an application for a
proposed amendment, supplement or change and before making a recommendation to
Council, the Commission shall hold a preliminary public hearing on the proposed
amendment, supplement or change, at least 15 days’ notice of the time and place
of which shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city. If the proposed amendment, supplement or change intends to rezone or
redistrict ten or less parcels of land, as listed in the tax duplicate, written
notice of the hearing shall be mailed by the Commission, by regular mail, at
least 15 days before the date of the public hearing to the owners of all real
property within 300 feet of the parcel or parcels, to the addresses of the
owners appearing on the County Auditor’s current tax list or the Treasurer’s
mailing list and such other lists as may be required by the Commission.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998; Ord. 2015-90, passed 10-12-2015)
§ 1137.03 PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (a)   Upon receipt of the application by the Zoning Administrator, the
Zoning Administrator shall determine whether the application contains all the
if ems referred to in §
1137.02(a). Once the Zoning Administrator determines that the application is
complete, the application shall be forwarded to the Planning Commission at its
next regularly-scheduled meeting. The Planning Commission shall review the
proposed amendment and consider reports from staff and other public agencies
and public comments.
(Ord. 04-155, passed 1-10-2005)
   (b)   Following the procedure stated above, the Planning Commission may
recommend that the application be granted as requested, or may recommend a
modification of the zoning amendment requested in the application, or it may
recommend that the application be denied. The Planning Commission shall
identify and evaluate all factors relevant to the petition and use its best
efforts to report its findings and recommendations to Council within 45 days of
receiving an amendment application.
(Ord. 2004-15, passed 3-8-2004; Ord. 2004-155, passed 1-10-2005)
   (c)   The Planning Commission shall consider the application at its next
regularly-scheduled meeting, and shall certify its recommendation to Council,
as soon as practicable after that meeting, if:
      (1)   The Planning Commission requests additional information from the
applicant, from city staff, or from any other interested parties or agencies in
order to make its recommendation;
      (2)   The Planning Commission determines that there is an indication that
notice of the preliminary public hearing required by §
1137.02(c) has not been given, requiring additional notice; or
      (3)   The applicant agrees.
(Ord. 04-155, passed 1-10-2005)
   (d)   In considering any petition for a Zoning map amendment, the Planning
Commission’s evaluation shall include, but is not limited to, the following
criteria:
      (1)   Whether the proposed amendment consistent with the goals, policies,
and future land use map of the City of Mason comprehensive plan, including any
subarea or corridor studies;
      (2)   Whether the uses permitted in the proposed zoning district are
compatible with the site’s physical, geological, hydrological and other
environmental features;
      (3)   Whether all of the potential uses allowed in the proposed zoning
district are compatible with surrounding uses and neighborhood in terms of land
suitability, impacts on the environment, density, nature of use, traffic
impacts, aesthetics, infrastructure, and potential influence on property
values;
      (4)   Whether the street system can safely and efficiently accommodate
the expected traffic generated by uses permitted in the requested zoning
district. A traffic impact study shall be provided if the proposed rezoning
district permits uses that could generate 100 or more directional trips during
the peak hour, or at least 1,000 more trips per day than the majority of the
uses that could be developed under current zoning;
      (5)   Whether the city’s utilities and services are sufficient to
accommodate the additional demand created by the uses permitted in the
requested district without compromising the health, safety and welfare of city
residents;
      (6)   Whether the applicant can receive a reasonable return on investment
through developing the property with one or more of the uses permitted under
the current zoning;
      (7)   Whether the shape and size of the property is reasonable so that
the site can meet the dimensional regulations of the requested zoning district;
and
      (8)   Other factors deemed appropriate by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2004-15, passed 3-8-2004)
§ 1137.04 COUNCIL, HEARING AND FINAL ACTION.
   (a)   Hearing. After receiving from the Planning Commission the certificate
of the recommendations on the proposed amendment, supplement or change, and
before adoption of the amendment, supplement or change, Council shall hold a
public hearing thereon, at least 15 days notice of the time and place of which
shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city. If the proposed amendment, supplement or change proposes to rezone or
redistrict ten or less parcels of land, as listed in the tax duplicate, written
notice of the hearing shall be mailed by the Clerk of Council, by certified
mail, with return receipt, at least 15 days before the date of the public
hearing to the owners of all real property within 300 feet of the parcel or
parcels, to the addresses of the owners appearing on the County Auditor’s
current tax list or the Treasurer’s mailing list and other lists as may be
required by Council.
   (b)   Final action. Following the hearing and after reviewing the
recommendations of the Commission thereon, Council shall consider the
recommendations and vote on the passage of the proposed amendment to the text
of the Zoning Ordinance or the Zoning Map. Council may overrule the
recommendations of the Commission by affirmative vote of not less than four of
the membership of Council.
(Ord. 2004-155, passed 1-10-2005)
§ 1137.05 MAP CHANGE PENDING; STAY OF CERTIFICATES OR PERMITS.
   Whenever Council has taken under advisement, a change or amendment of the
Zoning Map from a less restricted district to a more restricted district
classification, as evidenced by resolution of record, no zoning certificate or
building permit shall be issued within 75 days from the date of the resolution
which would authorize the construction of a building or the establishment of a
use which would become nonconforming under the contemplated redistricting plan.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
CHAPTER 1141: VARIANCES AND APPEALS
Section
1141.01   Purpose
1141.02   Variances authorized
1141.03   Standards for variances
1141.04   Application for variance
1141.05   Hearing of variance application
1141.06   Findings of fact required; decisions and records
1141.07   Period of validity
1141.08   Appeals
1141.09   Conditional variances
Charter reference:
   Appeals Board powers and duties, see Charter §
7.04
   Zoning, Housing and Building Appeals Board established, see Charter §
7.03
Statutory reference:
   Appeals from zoning decisions, see R.C. § 713.11, Ch. 2506
§ 1141.01 PURPOSE.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals, herein referred to as the “Board,” upon
application thereto, shall have the power to hear and decide appeals and grant
variances from the provisions and requirements of this chapter which will not
be contrary to the public interest or the general purpose and intent of this
chapter, and only in those specific instances defined in §
1141.02, based upon the standards set forth in §
1141.03 where, owing to special conditions of a lot, strict enforcement of the
provisions or requirements of this chapter would cause unreasonable hardship.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1141.02 VARIANCES AUTHORIZED.
   Variances from the provisions and requirements of this chapter shall be
granted by the Board only in accordance with the standards established in §
1141.03 and shall be limited to the following circumstances and no others:
   (a)   To vary the applicable bulk regulations for buildings and structures,
including maximum height, lot coverage, required yard areas and other required
open space;
   (b)   To vary the applicable minimum requirements for lot frontage and
distances from lot lines; and
   (c)   To vary the applicable minimum requirements for lot frontage and
distances from lot lines in conjunction with the granting of a conditional use
pursuant to
Chapter 1172 of this Part.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1141.03 STANDARDS FOR VARIANCES.
   (a)   The Board shall not be authorized to grant a variance for an active
use which is otherwise prohibited for the zoning district in which the property
is located. The Board shall not grant a variance as authorized in §
1141.02 unless it can determine that there are practical difficulties
encountered by the applicant in complying with the resolutions, ordinances,
regulations, measures and orders of administrative officials or agencies
governing zoning, building and housing. This evaluation shall include, but is
not limited to, the following criteria:
      (1)   Whether the property will yield a reasonable return without the
variance or whether there can be beneficial use of the property;
      (2)   Whether the variance is substantial;
      (3)   Whether the essential character of the neighborhood would be
substantially altered or whether adjoining properties would suffer a
substantial detriment as a result of the variance;
      (4)   Whether the variance would adversely affect the delivery of
governmental services;
      (5)   Whether the property owner purchased the property with knowledge of
the resolutions, ordinances, regulations, measures and orders;
      (6)   Whether the property owner’s predicament feasibly can be obviated
through some method other than variance; and
      (7)   Whether the spirit and the intent behind the resolutions,
ordinances, regulations, measures and orders would be observed and substantial
justice done by granting the variance.
   (b)   No single factor listed above shall control, and not all factors shall
be applicable in each case. Each case shall be determined on its own facts.
   (c)   The Board may impose conditions and restrictions upon the property
benefitted by a variance as the Board may deem necessary to comply with the
standards set forth in this section, to reduce or minimize the impact of the
variance upon other property in the neighborhood and to further the purpose and
intent of this chapter.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1141.04 APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE.
   Any person owning or having an interest in property may file an application
regarding that property with the Zoning Administrator for one or more of the
variances authorized in §
1141.02 of this chapter. The application shall be signed and completed in full
by the applicant and shall contain the following information and additional
information as the Board may, by rule, require:
   (a)   The particular provisions or requirements of this chapter by section
which prevent the proposed use of the property;
   (b)   The existing district classification of the property;
   (c)   The special conditions, circumstances or characteristics of the land,
building or structure that prevent compliance with the requirements of this
chapter;
   (d)   The extent to which it would be necessary to modify the requirements
of this chapter in order to permit the proposed use of the property;
   (e)   An explanation of how the requested variance conforms to the
evaluation criteria in §
1141.03;
   (f)   A complete list of names and addresses of all owners of all real
property within 300 feet of the parcel or parcels as appears on the County
Auditor’s current tax list or the Treasurer’s mailing list and other lists as
may be required by the Board; and
(Ord. 2004-155, passed 1-10-2005)
   (g)   Ten copies of the site plan drawn to the scale as the Board shall, by
rule, require, showing the actual dimensions of the property according to the
recorded plat of the property, including contour lines; all significant
vegetation and other significant natural environmental features on the
property, the use, height, location and ground area of all present and proposed
buildings and structures; the location of all vehicular entrances to and exits
from the property, the location of all off-street parking areas and number of
spaces provided therein; the building lines in relation to lot lines, and the
number, type, size and location of all present and proposed signs, if any.
§ 1141.05 HEARING OF VARIANCE APPLICATION.
   Upon receipt by the Zoning Administrator of a complete application for a
variance, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the Board which shall hold a
public hearing as soon as practical.
   (a)   Notice of hearing. Notice of the time and place of the hearing by the
Board of an application for a variance shall be given to all owners listed on
the notarized statement of the property owners with same notice published at
least once, not less than ten days before the hearing, in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city. The published notice may be supplemented by
the additional form of notice as the Board may, by rule, require.
   (b)   Conduct of hearing. Any person who satisfies the Chairperson of the
Board that he or she has a significant interest in the subject matter of the
hearing shall be afforded an opportunity to present evidence and argument, and
to question through the Chairperson witnesses on all relevant issues, subject
to the Chairperson’s imposition of reasonable limitations on the number of
witnesses, and the nature and length of testimony in questioning. All testimony
at the hearing shall be under oath administered by the Chairperson, or by
affirmation. The Board shall make a full and complete record of the hearing, by
any appropriate means. In the event of the filing of a judicial complaint
challenging the Board’s decision, the record shall be transcribed on order of
the Chairperson of the Board.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
   (c)   Communications outside of the hearing.  Members of the Board shall
base their consideration of the application for variance only upon the
following information and evidence:
      (1)   Testimony and argument presented at the hearing, and not upon
direct or indirect communication with any party or representative of the party
made outside of the hearing;
      (2)   Reports, memoranda and other materials prepared by the Zoning
Administrator in connection with the application and made a part of the record
at the time of the hearing; and
      (3)   Personal inspections of the site which may take place with or
without all of the interested parties or representatives present so long as no
verbal communication takes place between the members of the Board and any of
the parties or their representatives.
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
§ 1141.06 FINDINGS OF FACT REQUIRED; DECISIONS AND RECORDS.
   The Board shall render a written decision on the application for variance
setting forth its findings, together with the reasons for its decision. The
written decision shall be communicated to the applicant within 30 days from the
close of the hearing. The Zoning Administrator shall maintain complete records
of all actions of the Board with respect to all applications for variances and
shall notify Council of the Board’s action.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1141.07 PERIOD OF VALIDITY.
   No variance granted by the Board shall be valid for a period greater than
six months from the date on which the Board grants the variance, unless within
the time period, a building permit is obtained and the construction, moving or
remodeling of a building or structure on the property is commenced. The Board
may for good cause, without notice or hearing, grant a maximum of two
extensions not exceeding six months each upon written application by the
property owner.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1141.08 APPEALS.
   The appeal to all measures, orders or decisions of administrative officials
or agencies governing zoning, building and housing in the city shall be taken
within ten days after the measure, order or decision.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1141.09 CONDITIONAL VARIANCES.
   (a)   The Board, in granting any variance from the strict application of
this Zoning Ordinance, may prescribe conditions in conformance with this
section which it deems to be necessary and reasonable. The Board shall attach
conditions as safeguards for the protection of the health, safety and welfare
of owners and occupants of surrounding lots or the public. Specifically, the
Board may attach one or more of the following conditions to a variance:
      (1)   Paving;
      (2)   Landscaping and/or screening fence or wall;
      (3)   Amount and location of off-street parking, loading and signs;
      (4)   Direction and intensity of outdoor illumination;
      (5)   Cleaning and painting;
      (6)   Control or elimination of smoke, dust, radiation, gas, noise or
odor;
      (7)   Hours of operation;
      (8)   Activities, material storage and uses shall be conducted within an
enclosed structure; and/or
      (9)   Other conditions as may be appropriate.
   (b)   If the variance is approved with conditions, the Board shall issue the
variance listing the specific conditions upon which the variance was granted.
Violations of the conditions shall be deemed a violation of this Zoning
Ordinance and will be punishable under §
1135.99. Any violations will further revoke the variance which had been
conditionally granted.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
***** TITLE FIVE: ZONING DISTRICTS *****
CHAPTER 1145: DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES
Section
1145.01   Division of city into districts
1145.02   Zoning Map; districts and boundaries established
1145.03   District boundary determination
1145.04   Lot divided; extension of district
1145.05   Uncertainty as to boundaries; interpretation
1145.06   Vacated street or alley
1145.07   Property not included; zoning classification upon annexation
1145.08   Overlay districts
Cross-reference:
   District changes and ordinance amendments, see
Ch. 1137
   District defined, see §
1133.64
Statutory reference:
   Division into districts, see R.C. §§ 713.06, 713.10
   Zoning of annexed areas, see R.C. §§ 303.25, 519.18
§ 1145.01 DIVISION OF CITY INTO DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this Zoning Ordinance, the city is hereby divided into
categories or zoning districts designated as follows:
Residential Districts
R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-4 Single-Family Residential Districts
R-6                   Condominium and Landominium Residential District
R-7                   Multi-Family Residential District
Nonresidential Districts
B-1                   Central Business District
B-2                   Shopping Center District
B-3                   Road Service District
B-4                   Commercial Recreation District
Nonresidential Districts
HT-1                  High Tech Light Industrial District
I-1                   Light Industrial District
I-2                   Industrial District
O-1                   Office Park District
 
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1145.02 ZONING MAP; DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES ESTABLISHED.
   The several zoning districts and boundaries thereof are hereby adopted and
established as shown on the Zoning Map of the city (latest revision) which Map,
together with all notations, references, data, district boundaries and other
information shown thereon, is hereby made a part of this Zoning Ordinance. The
Zoning Map, properly attested, shall remain on file in the office of the City
Engineer.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1145.03 DISTRICT BOUNDARY DETERMINATION.
   Except where referenced on the Zoning Map to a street or alley line or other
designated line by dimensions shown on the Map, the district boundary lines
follow lot lines or the center lines of streets or alleys as they existed at
the time of adoption of this Zoning Ordinance. But where a district line
obviously does not coincide with the lot lines as such, or center lines of
streets or alleys, or where it is not designated by dimensions, it shall be
deemed to be 150 feet back from the nearest street line parallel to which it is
drawn.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1145.04 LOT DIVIDED; EXTENSION OF DISTRICT.
   Where a district boundary line established in this chapter or as shown on
the Zoning Map divides a lot which was in single ownership at the time of
enactment of this Zoning Ordinance, the use authorized thereon and the other
district requirements applying to the most restricted portion of the lot under
this Zoning Ordinance shall be considered as extending to the entire lot.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1145.05 UNCERTAINTY AS TO BOUNDARIES; INTERPRETATION.
   All questions concerning the exact location of district boundary lines, or
the meaning and intent of textual provisions of this Zoning Ordinance, shall be
determined by the Zoning Board of Appeals according to rules and regulations
which may be adopted by it.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1145.06 VACATED STREET OR ALLEY.
   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated by official action
as provided by law, the zoning district adjoining the side of the public way
shall be extended automatically depending on the side or sides to which the
lands revert, to include the right-of-way thus vacated, which shall thenceforth
be subject to all regulations of the extended district or districts.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1145.07 PROPERTY NOT INCLUDED; ZONING CLASSIFICATION UPON ANNEXATION.
   (a)   In every case where property within the city has not been specifically
included within a district, the same is hereby declared to be in the R-
1 Single-Family Residential District. In every case where property annexed to
the city has not been previously zoned in the township or county, the property
shall, upon annexation to the city, be zoned R-1 Single-Family Residential
District upon the effective date of the annexation.
   (b)   Where property is zoned in the township or county and the property is
annexed to the city, the zoning regulations then in effect in the township
shall remain in full force and shall be enforced by the township officials
until the legislative authority of the city shall either officially adopt the
existing township or county zoning regulations that apply to the property or
adopt new zoning regulations for the property under the city’s Zoning Code.
Should the city choose to adopt the existing township zoning regulations for
the property being annexed, the zoning regulations will be enforced by the
city.
   (c)   A property owner who has executed a properly filed petition for
annexation may, following approval of the annexation petition by the Board of
County Commissioners, file with the city an application to rezone the property
contemporaneously with the effective date of the annexation. In that case, the
property owner by way of application or the city by motion may initiate a
zoning change classification to the Planning Commission. The application will
follow the normal and ordinary procedural steps established by the city’s
Zoning Code. The Planning Commission, upon the request of the city by motion or
upon the filing of the application by the property owner or authorized agent of
the owner, is authorized prior to the acceptance of the annexation by the city
but after receipt of the annexation transcript from the County Commissioners to
take all procedural steps necessary, including, but not limited to, providing
the appropriate notices, advertising, and holding public hearings, in order to
make or be prepared to make its recommendation for the approval, denial or
modification of the proposed zoning classification to City Council.
   (d)   City Council shall not take final legislative action on the zoning
application of the property owner or on motion of the city to rezone the
property prior to the effective date of the ordinance approving the annexation.
(Ord. 2005-133, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 1145.08 OVERLAY DISTRICTS.
   (a)   Overlay districts are zoning tools used for dealing with unique
situations or accomplishing special planning and zoning goals. Overlay
districts may be created where the land use regulations and associated
development standards of the underlying zoning districts are deemed inadequate
to be effective. As the name implies, overlay zoning districts are “overlaid”
on top of base zoning districts. The overlay district alters or adds to the
zoning requirements of the base zoning district or districts. Overlay districts
are shown on the official Zoning Map as dashed lines labeled with the overlay
map designation or with the overlay district name. Overlay districts shall be
given a two letter designator that follows the designation of the underlying
base zoning district. For example, a lot located in the B-1 Central Business
District and in the Downtown Overlay District shall have the zoning designation
of B1-DO.
   (b)   The following overlay districts are included in the City Zoning Code:
 
Zoning Map Designation Overlay District Name
DO                     Downtown Overlay District
 
(Ord. 2005-136, passed 11-28-2005)
CHAPTER 1147: R-1, R-2, R-3 AND R-4 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
Section
1147.01   Purpose
1147.02   Permitted uses
1147.03   Accessory uses
1147.04   Conditional uses
1147.05   Development standards
1147.06   Corner lots
1147.07   Flag lots
Cross-reference:
   Compliance and general regulations, see
Ch. 1171
   Districts and boundaries, see
Ch. 1145
   Frontage and yard modifications, see
Ch. 1183
   Height, see
Ch. 1181
   Nonconforming uses, see
Ch. 1173
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1175
   Yard projections, see
Ch. 1185
§ 1147.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-4 Districts is to encourage the
orderly development of low to medium density single-family homes and customary
supporting facilities, such as schools, churches and golf courses.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998; Ord. 99-48, passed 4-12-1999)
§ 1147.02 PERMITTED USES.
   Land and buildings in the R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-4 Single-Family Districts
shall be used only for the following purposes:
   (a)   Dwelling structures. Single-family structures;
   (b)   Agricultural. Any customary agricultural use, building or structure,
including nurseries, greenhouses and animal farms, provided any lot or tract in
the use shall not be less than ten acres in area and provided that any
greenhouse heating plant shall be not less than 100 feet distant from every lot
line;
   (c)   Public schools. Public schools offering general educational courses
and having no rooms regularly used for housing, provided it occupies a lot of
not less than five acres;
   (d)   Private schools. Private schools offering general educational courses
similar to those ordinarily given in public schools and having no rooms
regularly used for housing, provided it occupies a lot of not less than five
acres;
   (e)   Parks. Parks, playgrounds and play fields;
   (f)   Residential facilities. Foster homes and family foster homes as
defined in R.C. § 2151.011(B), family homes and group homes licensed pursuant
to R.C. § 5123.19 and adult family homes and adult group homes licensed
pursuant to R.C. § 3722.02;
   (g)   Institutions, public and cultural. Public libraries, churches and
other places of worship, Sunday school buildings and parish houses; and
   (h)   Golf courses. Golf courses, including buildings, structures and uses
as are necessary for their operation.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998; Ord. 99-48, passed 4-12-1999)
§ 1147.03 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses, building or other structures customarily incidental to any
aforesaid permitted or conditionally permitted uses may be established, erected
or constructed; provided, that the accessory uses shall not involve the conduct
of any business, trade or industry, or any private way or walk giving access to
the activity, or any billboard, sign or poster other than authorized herein.
Accessory uses may include the following:
   (a)   Gardening, pets and animals. Gardening, hobby greenhouses, the raising
of vegetables or fruits and the keeping of household pets, domestic or farm
animals exclusively for the use or personal enjoyment of residents of the
premises and not for commercial purposes with the exception of produce grown
and sold as part of a valid home occupation. Any heating plant and any
structure in which fowl, bees or farm animals are kept shall be located at
least 100 feet from every lot line;
   (b)   Parking facilities. Garages, carports or other parking spaces for the
exclusive use of residents of the premises;
   (c)   Swimming pools. Swimming pools, exclusively for the use of the
residents and their guests, and subject to the provisions of the Building Code;
   (d)   Real estate and professional signs. Real estate announcements and
professional signs subject to the provisions of §
1171.15 and
Chapter 1187 of the codified ordinances;
   (e)   Home occupations and professional offices. See §
1171.15; and
   (f)   Solar units and dish-type satellite signal receiving stations. See §
1171.07(d).
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1147.04 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be allowed in the R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-4 Single-
Family Residential District subject to approval in accordance with
Chapter 1172:
   (a)   Child day-care centers as regulated by §
1172.04;
   (b)   Convalescent, nursing or rest homes as regulated by §
1172.05; and
   (c)   Home-based barber shops and beauty salons as regulated by §
1172.10.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998; Ord. 99-48, passed 4-12-1999)
§ 1147.05 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (a)   Generally. The following development standards shall apply to R-1, R-
2, R-3 and R-4 Districts:
Table 1147 - R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-4Development Standards
  District
  R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4
Table 1147 - R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-4Development Standards
                                                   District
                                                   R-1    R-2    R-3    R-4
Minimum lot area (in square feet)                  40,000 20,000 15,000 12,750
Minimum lot width (in feet)                        150    100    100    85
Minimum corner lot width (in feet)                 175    120    120    100
Minimum setbacks of principal buildings (in feet)
   Front (a)                                    60     50     50     40
   SiMinimum                                    15     10     10     10
        Total                                      50     30     30     20
   Rear                                         40     30     30     30
Minimum setback for accessory structures (in feet)
   Front (b)                                    ---    ---    ---    ---
   Side and rear                                25     15     15     10
Maximum impervious surface ratio                   35%    40%    45%    50%
Maximum height of principal buildings (in feet)    35     35     35     35
Minimum floor area of dwelling unit (in square     1,600  1,500  1,400  1,250
feet)
(a)   For lots fronting on two streets, the principal building shall be set
back from both streets according to the front setback of the district in which
it is located.
(b)   Accessory structures not permitted in front yard.
 
   (b)   Landscaping. All landscaping shall conform to the Landscape Ordinance.
   (c)   Parking. All driveways in new subdivisions must be paved.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
   (d)   Garages. All single-family dwellings shall have a minimum of a one car
garage.
(Ord. 99-48, passed 4-12-1999; Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
§ 1147.06 CORNER LOTS.
   On corner lots, where lots have frontage on more than one public right-of-
way, the required front yard shall be provided on both streets and the
remaining lot line(s) shall comply with the side yard requirements.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1147.07 FLAG LOTS.
   Flag lots shall be approved only if all of the following conditions are met:
   (a)   The applicant shall demonstrate that significant natural conditions
including topography, natural watercourses or scenic vistas will be preserved
with the creation of flag lot(s);
   (b)   No more than 5% of the lots in the subdivision shall be flag lots; and
   (c)   There shall be a minimum of 20 feet of lot width at the street
frontage for a flag lot and an additional ten feet of street frontage for each
additional adjacent flag lot.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
CHAPTER 1148: R-6 CONDOMINIUM AND LANDOMINIUM RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
Section
1148.01   Purpose
1148.02   Permitted uses
1148.03   Conditional uses
1148.04   Development standards
1148.05   Corner lots
1148.06   Flag lots
Charter reference:
   Density of multi-family buildings, see Charter §
11.08
   Percentage of dwellings permitted as apartments, see Charter §
11.07
Cross-reference:
   Compliance and general regulations, see
Ch. 1171
   Condominium defined, see §
1133.51
   Districts and boundaries, see
Ch. 1145
   Frontage and yard modifications, see
Ch. 1183
   Height, see
Ch. 1181
   Landominium defined, see §
1133.94
   Nonconforming uses, see
Ch. 1173
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1175
   Yard projections, see
Ch. 1185
§ 1148.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the District is to accommodate existing, higher density
residential development by allowing property zoned R-6 to develop at approved
densities but under more restrictive standards.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1148.02 PERMITTED USES.
   Land and buildings in the R-6 Residential District shall be used only for
the following purposes:
   (a)   Dwelling structures. Single-family structures including condominium
and landominium uses;
   (b)   Agricultural. Any customary agricultural use, building or structure,
including nurseries, greenhouses and animal farms, provided any lot or tract in
the use shall not be less than ten acres in area and provided that any
greenhouse heating plant shall be located not less than 150 feet from every lot
line;
   (c)   Accessory uses. Accessory buildings and uses in association with
permitted dwellings including garages, gardening, pets and animals, parking
facilities and swimming pools, club houses, rental offices, real estate and
professional signs, and solar units and dish type satellites as regulated in §
1171.07. Home occupations shall be regulated by §
1171.15;
   (d)   Public schools and parks. Public schools offering general educational
courses and having no rooms regularly used for housing, parks, playgrounds and
play fields;
   (e)   Private schools. Private school offering general educational courses
similar to those ordinarily given in public schools and having no rooms
regularly used for housing;
   (f)   Residential facilities. Foster homes and family foster homes as
defined in R.C. § 2151.011(B), family homes and group homes licensed pursuant
to R.C. § 5123.19 and adult family homes and adult group homes licensed
pursuant to R.C. § 3722.02;
   (g)   Institutions, public and cultural. Public libraries, churches and
other places of worship, Sunday school buildings and parish houses; and
   (h)   Golf courses. Golf courses, including buildings, structures and uses
as are necessary for their operation.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1148.03 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be allowed in the R-6 Residential District subject
to approval in accordance with
Chapter 1172:
   (a)   Child day-care centers as regulated by §
1172.04;
   (b)   Convalescent, nursing or rest homes as regulated by §
1172.05;
   (c)   Funeral homes; and
   (d)   Utility stations as regulated by the Landscape Ordinance and operated
within a completely enclosed structure.
(Ord. 2004-15, passed 3-8-2004)
§ 1148.04 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (a)   Generally. The following standards shall apply to listed uses in R-
6 Districts:
Table 1148 - R-6 Development Standards
 Use
 Landominium, Condominium, Townhome (c)
Table 1148 - R-6 Development Standards
                                                                 Use
                                                                 Landominium,
                                                                 Condominium,
                                                                 Townhome (c)
Minimum project area                                             1 acre
Minimum lot width                                                100 feet
Minimum setbacks from project boundary                           30 feet
Minimum building setbacks
   Arterial or collector street                               50 feet
   Local or private street (a)                                40 feet
Maximum height of principal buildings                            45 feet (b)
Minimum distance between buildings                               20 feet (b)
                                                                 1,200 square
Minimum square footage (livable floor area, as referenced in §  feet per unit
1133.80)                                                         (without
                                                                 basement)
                                                                 1,000 square
                                                                 feet per unit
                                                                 (with basement)
(a)   Distance from back of curb or if a curb is not present, edge of pavement.
(b)   For buildings taller than 20 feet, the minimum distance between buildings
shall be the height of the building or 30 feet, whichever is less.
(c)   Detached single family dwellings with frontage on a public street shall
comply with the development standards for the R-4 District in §
1147.05 of this code.
 
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
   (b)   Maximum densities. The maximum net density for any residential use in
an R-6 District shall be six units per acre. Net density shall exclude any
public right-of-way.
   (c)   Landscaping. All landscaping shall conform to the Landscape Ordinance.
   (d)   Site planning. All site plans shall comply with the procedures in
Chapter 1135.
   (e)   Parking. All parking shall be provided as required in
Chapter 1175. At least one off-street parking space located within a fully
enclosed attached structure and at least one unenclosed surface parking space
shall be provided for each unit.
   (f)   Setback. Any multi-family structure in the R-6 District shall be at
least 75 feet from any single-family district.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1148.05 CORNER LOTS.
   On corner lots, where lots have frontage on more than one public right-of-
way, the required front yard shall be provided on both streets and the
remaining lot line(s) shall comply with the side yard requirements.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1148.06 FLAG LOTS.
   Flag lots shall be approved only if all of the following conditions are met:
   (a)   The applicant shall demonstrate that significant natural conditions
including topography, natural watercourses or scenic vistas will be preserved
with the creation of flag lot(s);
   (b)   No more than 5% of the lots in the subdivision shall be flag lots; and
   (c)   There shall be a minimum of 20 feet of lot width at the street
frontage for a flag lot and an additional ten feet of street frontage for each
additional adjacent flag lot.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
CHAPTER 1149: R-7 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
Section
1149.01   Purpose
1149.02   Permitted uses
1149.03   Conditional uses
1149.04   Development standards
1149.05   Corner lots
Charter reference:
   Density of dwelling units, see Charter §
11.08
   Percentages of dwellings permitted as apartments, see Charter §
11.07
Cross-reference:
   Compliance and general regulations, see
Ch. 1171
   Districts and boundaries, see
Ch. 1145
   Frontage and yard modifications, see
Ch. 1183
   Height, see
Ch. 1181
   Nonconforming uses, see
Ch. 1173
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1175
   Yard projections, see
Ch. 1185
§ 1149.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the District is to accommodate new, higher density
residential development by limiting the intensity of the use. The district also
serves a transition between uses of lower and higher densities.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1149.02 PERMITTED USES.
   Land and buildings in the Multi-Family Residential District shall be used
only for the following purposes:
   (a)   Dwelling structures. Two-family and multi-family structures having two
or more dwelling units per structure;
   (b)   Accessory uses. Accessory buildings and uses in association with
permitted dwellings including garages, gardening, pets and animals, parking
facilities and swimming pools, club houses, rental offices, real estate and
professional signs, and solar units and dish type satellites as regulated in §
1171.07. Home occupations shall be regulated by §
1171.15;
   (c)   Public schools and parks. Public schools offering general educational
courses and having no rooms regularly used for housing. Parks, playgrounds and
play fields;
   (d)   Private schools. Private schools offering general educational courses
similar to those ordinarily given in public schools and having no rooms
regularly used for housing;
   (e)   Religious institutions. Churches and other places of worship, Sunday
school buildings and parish houses;
   (f)   Residential facilities. Foster homes and family foster homes as
defined in R.C. § 2151.011(B), family homes and group homes licensed pursuant
to R.C. § 5123.19 and adult family homes and adult group homes licensed
pursuant to R.C. § 3722.02; and
   (g)   Golf courses. Golf courses, including buildings, structures and uses
as are necessary for their operation.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1149.03 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be allowed in the R-7 Residential District subject
to approval in accordance with
Chapter 1172:
   (a)   Child day-care centers as regulated by §
1172.04;
   (b)   Convalescent, nursing or rest homes as regulated by §
1172.05;
   (c)   Funeral homes; and
   (d)   Utility stations as regulated by the Landscape Ordinance and operated
within a completely enclosed structure.
(Ord. 2004-15, passed 3-8-2004)
§ 1149.04 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (a)   Generally. The following standards shall apply to listed uses in R-
7 Districts:
Table 1149 - R-7 Development Standards
 Use
 Multi-Family, Landominium, Condominium, Townhome (c)
Table 1149 - R-7 Development Standards
                                       Use
                                       Multi-Family, Landominium, Condominium,
                                       Townhome (c)
Minimum project area                   1 acre
Minimum lot width                      100 feet
Minimum setbacks from project boundary 30 feet
Minimum building setbacks
   Arterial or collector street     50 feet
   Local or private street (a)      40 feet
Maximum height of principal buildings  45 feet (b)
Minimum distance between buildings     20 feet (b)
Minimum square footage (livable floor  750 square feet for a one-bedroom
area)
                                       1,000 square feet for a two or more
                                       bedroom
(a)   Distance from back of curb or if a curb is not present, edge of
pavement.
(b)   For buildings taller than 20 feet, the minimum distance between
buildings shall be the height of the building or 30 feet, whichever is less.
(c)   Detached single- and two-family dwellings with frontage on a public
street shall comply with the development standards for the R-4 District in §
1147.05 of this code.
 
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
   (b)   Maximum densities. The maximum net density for any residential use in
an R-7 District shall be six units per acre. Net density shall exclude any
public right-of-way.
   (c)   Landscaping. All landscaping shall conform to the Landscape Ordinance.
   (d)   Site planning. All site plans shall comply with the procedures in
Chapter 1135.
   (e)   Parking. All parking shall be provided as required in
Chapter 1175. At least one off-street parking space located within a fully
enclosed attached structure and at least one unenclosed surface parking space
shall be provided for each unit.
   (f)   Setback. Any multi-family structure in the R-7 District shall be at
least 75 feet from any single-family district.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1149.05 CORNER LOTS.
   On corner lots, where lots have frontage on more than one public right-of-
way, the required front yard shall be provided on both streets and the
remaining lot line(s) shall comply with the side yard requirements.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
CHAPTER 1153: O-1 OFFICE PARK DISTRICT
Section
1153.01   Purpose
1153.02   Principal permitted uses
1153.03   Conditional uses
1153.04   Prohibited uses
1153.05   Development standards
1153.06   Objectionable uses
Cross-reference:
   Compliance and general regulations, see
Ch. 1171
   Districts and boundaries, see
Ch. 1145
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1175
   Signs and billboards, see
Ch. 1187
§ 1153.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the O-1 District is to create professional office areas that
will be acceptable within the city’s suburban areas and will not adversely
affect adjacent residential neighborhoods. Only professional establishments
which are free from objectionable features shall be permitted.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1153.02 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   No building, structure or land shall be used and no building or structure
shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or designed
for other than the following uses:
   (a)   Offices. Professional and administrative offices including medical and
dental offices and clinics, financial institutions such as banks, building and
loan companies, savings and loans, insurance and real estate offices;
   (b)   Recreational. Private health clubs and recreational facilities
including, but not limited to, swimming pools, tennis courts, golf courses,
baseball diamonds and the like not operated for commercial purposes, including
buildings, structures and uses as are necessary for their operation;
   (c)   Funeral homes. Funeral homes or mortuaries; and
   (d)   Institutional, public and cultural. Public libraries, museums,
churches and other places of worship, Sunday school buildings and parish
houses, public elementary and high schools or private schools with a curriculum
the same as ordinarily given in public elementary and high schools and having
no rooms regularly used for housing and sleeping rooms.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1153.03 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (a)   Business and personal services. Business and personal services of a
type and nature clearly supplementary to and complementing the principal uses
permitted. In the same building or complex of buildings with the principal use,
such as research and medical laboratories, office supply and equipment repair
shops and service, pharmacies, restaurants, child daycare and similar uses;
provided that the business and personal services shall be conducted primarily
for the convenience of the principal permitted uses. These business and
personal services shall not occupy in the aggregate more than 25% of the gross
area of any one building or building complex of the principal permitted uses.
   (b)   Child day-care centers. Child day-care centers as regulated by §
1172.04.
   (c)   Commercial parking garages and lots.  Commercial parking garages and
lots for passenger vehicles only, provided a reservoir space is provided within
the garage or lot for holding cars awaiting entrance which reservoir space
shall have a vehicular capacity of not less than 2% of the total parking
capacity of the garage or lot, but in any case not less than eight vehicles.
(Ord. 2004-15, passed 3-8-2004)
§ 1153.04 PROHIBITED USES.
   The following uses are prohibited:
   (a)   Retail and wholesale sales establishments, and exterior advertising or
product display;
   (b)   The practice of veterinary medicine;
   (c)   Research laboratories or facilities discharging contaminants into the
air or waste system which would be in excess of normal and endanger the health
and welfare of the surrounding community; and
   (d)   Warehousing and storage.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1153.05 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (a)   Generally. The following standards shall apply to all uses in O-
1 Districts:
Table 1153 - O-1 Development Standards
Table 1153 - O-1 Development Standards
Minimum area of   5 acres
district
Minimum lot area  43,560 square feet per lot
Minimum lot width 150 feet
Minimum lot depth 200 feet
Minimum setback   Not abutting a       Abutting a           Abutting right-of-
requirements      residential district residential district way
   Front       50 feet (a)          50 feet (a)          50 feet (a)
   Side        15 feet (a)          100 feet (a)         50 feet (a)
   Rear        25 feet (a)          100 feet (a)         50 feet (a)
Maximum height    60 feet (a)
(a)   Required setbacks are shown for a maximum height of 60 feet. For every
one foot of height above the 60-foot maximum, each of the required front, side
and rear yard setbacks are increased by two feet. No building shall exceed a
maximum height of 90 feet.
 
   (b)   Landscaping. All landscaping shall conform to the Landscape Ordinance.
   (c)   Site planning. All site plans shall comply with the procedures in
Chapter 1135.
   (d)   Illumination of accessways and parking areas. Accessways, parking
areas and all other exterior areas which may be illuminated shall employ only
fixtures which direct the light downward in a manner so as to control the glare
and spill of light onto adjoining public or private properties. No fixture
shall be mounted more than 20 feet above the ground level. Poles and fixtures
shall be decorative and in character with the particular office park theme.
   (e)   Maximum building height. Main structures including parking garages
shall not exceed three stories or 40 feet in height except as provided in
Chapter 1181.
   (f)   Off-street parking and loading.
      (1)   Off-street parking and loading facilities shall be provided as
specified in
Chapter 1175.
      (2)   Outside parking of any vehicle over 25 feet in length for a period
of more than 24 hours is prohibited.
      (3)   Parking of fleet vehicles, as defined in §
1133.78, shall be prohibited in front of the building line, and outside parking
of more than five fleet vehicles shall be prohibited unless completely screened
from adjacent properties and public rights-of-way with a wall constructed of
the same material as the principal building.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1153.06 OBJECTIONABLE USES.
   No processes and equipment shall be employed which are objectionable by
reason of odor, dust, smoke, cinders, gas fumes, noise, vibration, radiation,
refuse matter or water carried waste.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
CHAPTER 1155: B-1 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
Section
1155.01   Purpose
1155.02   Principal permitted uses
1155.03   Conditional uses
1155.04   Business in enclosed buildings
1155.05   Development standards
1155.06   Objectionable uses
Cross-reference:
   Compliance and general regulations, see
Ch. 1171
   Districts and boundaries, see
Ch. 1145
   Motels and motor hotels, see
Ch. 1177
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1175
§ 1155.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of the B-1 District to permit and to encourage the
establishment of a wide variety of shopping goods and services in the central
area in a way as to attract consumers from a large trade area and encourage the
reuse of existing older structures. Only those uses that will materially
interfere with the overall function of the central area shall be excluded.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1155.02 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   No building, structure or land shall be used and no building or structure
shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or designed
for other than one of the following uses, except as provided in §
1155.01. No use within the B-1 District shall be developed with a drive-in or
drive-through facility unless the facility complies with the standards in §
1172.08.
   (a)   Offices.
      (1)   Business, professional and administrative offices;
      (2)   Offices of business and professional associations; and
      (3)   Medical offices and clinics.
   (b)   Retail, commercial and service uses.
      (1)   Specialty retail and commercial uses, including drug stores;
      (2)   Specialty food stores;
      (3)   Home furnishings, home improvements, materials and equipment stores
with no outside storage;
      (4)   Garden supply;
      (5)   General merchandise and grocery stores;
      (6)   Personal services;
      (7)   Business and cleaning services;
      (8)   Art studios;
      (9)   Financial establishments without drive-through facilities; and
      (10)   Restaurants, standard, without drive-through facilities.
   (c)   Institutional, public and cultural uses.
      (1)   Public offices and buildings;
      (2)   Public and private elementary, junior high and high schools;
      (3)   Libraries, museums and art galleries;
      (4)   Churches and places of worship; and
      (5)   Child day-care centers.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1155.03 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted only as specifically authorized by the
Planning Commission and Council in accordance with any applicable provisions of
this Zoning Ordinance.
   (a)   Commercial parking garages and lots. Commercial parking garages and
lots for passenger vehicles only, provided a reservoir space is provided within
the garage or lot for holding cars awaiting entrance, which reservoir space
shall have a vehicular capacity of not less than 2% of the total parking
capacity of the garages or lot, but in any event not less than two vehicles.
   (b)   Residential use. First floor residential use is prohibited, however
residential use is permitted on the second floor or above. Residential use
permitted by this section shall comply with minimum livable floor area
requirements established for an R-6 Multi-Family Residential District in
Chapter 1148.
   (c)   Bed and breakfasts. As regulated in §
1172.09.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1155.04 BUSINESS IN ENCLOSED BUILDINGS.
   All business, services, processing or storage of materials shall be
conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building, except for the sale of
automotive fuel, lubricants and fluids at service stations and outdoor display
or storage vehicles, of materials and equipment as hereinbefore specifically
authorized or as may be authorized by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1155.05 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (a)   Lot area. No minimum lot area is required.
   (b)   Lot width. No minimum lot width is required.
   (c)   Front yard setback. The minimum front yard setback shall be the
average of existing commercial structures on the same side of the street and
facing thereon within the same block. Where there are no adjacent commercial
structures, the front yard setback shall be not less than 15 feet measured from
the street right-of-way, and sufficient to meet screening and buffer yard
standards specified in the Landscape Ordinance.
   (d)   Side and rear yards. No minimum side or rear yards shall be required,
provided that the requirements of
Chapter 1175 and the Landscape Ordinance are met.
   (e)   Impervious surface ratio. The maximum impervious surface ratio shall
be .90.
   (f)   Site plan. A site plan shall be submitted prior to obtaining a
building permit as specified in
Chapter 1135.
   (g)   Maximum building height. No structure shall exceed three stories or 40
feet in height except as provided in
Chapter 1181.
   (h)   Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided as specified in
Chapter 1175, with up to 50% of total required spaces available through public
parking lots and parking garages within a distance of 500 feet of the building
line of the use.
   (i)   Loading. Off-street loading facilities shall be provided as specified
in
Chapter 1175.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1155.06 OBJECTIONABLE USES.
   No processes and equipment shall be employed or goods sold which are
objectionable by reason of odor, dust, smoke, cinders, gas, fumes, noise,
vibration, radiation, refuse matter or water-carried waste. Objectionable noise
shall be any noise prohibited by the Noise Ordinance.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
CHAPTER 1157: B-2 SHOPPING CENTER DISTRICT
Section
1157.01   Purpose
1157.02   Submission of plans
1157.03   Commission findings
1157.04   Principal permitted uses
1157.05   Conditional uses
1157.06   Development standards
1157.07   Accessory uses
1157.08   Objectionable uses
Cross-reference:
   Compliance and general regulations, see
Ch. 1171
   Districts and boundaries, see
Ch. 1145
   Motels and motor hotels, see
Ch. 1177
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1175
§ 1157.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the B-2 District is to permit and to encourage the
development of a pre-planned commercial center with multiple stores or offices
managed as a total entity and designed with:
   (a)   Aesthetic consideration in site and architectural layout;
   (b)   Coordinated pedestrian and vehicular circulation; and
   (c)   On-site parking and service areas.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1157.02 SUBMISSION OF PLANS.
   The owner of a tract of land located in any district and containing not less
than five acres may submit to the Planning Commission for its review a
preliminary plan for the use and development of the tract of land for an
integrated commercial shopping center.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1157.03 COMMISSION FINDINGS.
   The applicant shall demonstrate the following to the Planning Commission:
   (a)   Adequate size. The proposed shopping center is adequate but not
excessive in size for the population which may reasonably be expected to be
served by the center;
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
   (b)   Traffic congestion to be avoided. The proposed shopping center will
not aggravate an existing traffic congestion situation, and that any additional
traffic generated by the shopping center will be properly directed and any
potential future congestion shall be obviated by proposed public improvements
of access thoroughfares and by appropriate provisions in the shopping center
plan for proper entrances and exits and internal facilities or traffic
circulation and parking.
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
   (c)   Integrated design. The plan provides for a shopping center consisting
of one or several groups of establishments in buildings of integrated and
harmonious design together with properly arranged facilities for traffic and
parking, landscaping and other features which tend to create an attractive and
efficient shopping center, convenient, pleasant and safe to use, which would
harmoniously fit into and have not appreciable adverse effects on the adjoining
or surrounding development.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1157.04 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (a)   Offices.
      (1)   Business, professional and administrative offices;
      (2)   Offices of business and professional associations; and
      (3)   Medical offices and clinics.
   (b)   Retail, commercial and service uses.
      (1)   Large retail establishments, as specified in
Chapter 1174;
      (2)   Specialty retail and commercial uses, including drug stores;
      (3)   General merchandise and grocery stores;
      (4)   Specialty food stores;
      (5)   Home furnishings, home improvements, materials and equipment stores
with no outside storage;
      (6)   Garden supply;
      (7)   Personal services;
      (8)   Business and cleaning services;
      (9)   Art studios;
      (10)   Financial establishments without drive-through facilities; and
      (11)   Restaurants, standard, without drive-through facilities.
   (c)   Institutional, public and cultural uses.
      (1)   Public offices and buildings;
      (2)   Public and private elementary, junior high and high schools;
      (3)   Libraries, museums and art galleries;
      (4)   Churches and places of worship;
      (5)   Child day-care centers; and
      (6)   Financial offices.
(Ord. 2006-81, passed 8-28-2006; Ord. 2017-52, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 1157.05 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (a)   Convenience food stores, carry-outs, mini-markets and drive-through
and drive-in stores, including photo kiosks, drive-in windows which are
accessory to the operation of a financial establishment or fast food
restaurant, and as specified in §
1172.08;
   (b)   Taverns, bars and nightclubs. Establishments primarily engaged in the
retail sale of drinks, such as beer, ale, wine, liquor and other alcoholic
beverages, for consumption on the premises. The sale of food may also be a part
of the operation of these establishments;
   (c)   Vehicle sales, rental and service, as specified in §
1172.06;
   (d)   Automobile service stations, as specified in §
1172.06;
   (e)   Automobile leasing facilities, as specified in §
1172.06.
   (f)   Automobile accessories as specified in §
1172.06;
   (g)   Theaters; and
   (h)   Animal hospitals, veterinarian clinics and kennels subject to the
additional standards in §
1172.11.
(Ord. 2004-155, passed 1-10-2005)
§ 1157.06 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The following minimum standards shall be observed in the design of
commercial shopping centers.
   (a)   Yards. No building shall be less than 50 feet distant from any
boundary of the tract on which the shopping center is located. The center shall
be permanently screened from all adjoining properties located in any
residential district as regulated by the Landscape Ordinance.
   (b)   Signs. In addition to the requirements in
Chapter 1187, all signs in B-2 Districts are subject to express approval by the
Planning Commission. All signs within the center shall be controlled by written
agreement between the owners and tenants of the center, or otherwise, to avoid
excessive advertising and to ensure a harmonious appearance to the center as a
whole. In a neighborhood shopping center, all signs shall only be indirectly
illuminated with white light. All signs shall conform to the distance
requirements from property lines established for the buildings in the center.
   (c)   Impervious surface. The amount of impervious surface covering the site
in proportion to the amount of total site area shall not exceed .85.
   (d)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be provided as specified in the
Landscape Ordinance.
   (e)   Site plan. A site plan shall be submitted prior to obtaining a
building permit as specified in
Chapter 1135.
   (f)   Height regulation. No principal or accessory structures shall exceed
three stories or 40 feet in height, except as provided in
Chapter 1181.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1157.07 ACCESSORY USES.
   All accessory uses and structures shall be approved by the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1157.08 OBJECTIONABLE USES.
   Processes and equipment employed and goods produced or sold shall be limited
to those which are not objectionable by reason of odor, dust, smoke, cinders,
gas, fumes, noise, vibration, refuse matter or water-carried waste, and shall
comply with the B-1 District standards in
Chapter 1155. Objectionable noise shall be any noise prohibited by the Noise
Ordinance.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
CHAPTER 1159: B-3 ROAD SERVICE DISTRICT
Section
1159.01   Purpose
1159.02   Principal permitted uses
1159.03   Conditional uses
1159.04   Accessory uses
1159.05   Objectionable uses
1159.06   Enclosed buildings
1159.07   Night operation
1159.08   Development standards
Cross-reference:
   Compliance and general regulations, see
Ch. 1171
   Districts and boundaries, see
Ch. 1145
   Motels and motor hotels, see
Ch. 1177
   Service stations, see §
1172.06
§ 1159.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of the B-3 Road Service District to allow the development
of highway oriented commercial uses along the community’s major thoroughfares.
Both the intensity and the potential impact on residential uses are mitigated
through lot width, setback and supplemental landscape standards.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1159.02 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (a)   Large retail establishments, as specified in
Chapter 1174;
   (b)   Specialty retail and commercial uses, including drug stores with or
without drive-throughs;
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
   (c)   General merchandise and grocery stores;
   (d)   Specialty food stores;
   (e)   Home furnishings;
   (f)   Nursery and garden supply;
   (g)   Personal services;
   (h)   Business and cleaning services;
   (i)   Art studios;
   (j)   Financial establishments with drive-through facilities subject to the
additional standards in §
1172.08;
   (k)   Restaurants, standard, with drive-through facilities subject to the
additional standards in §
1172.08;
   (l)   Convenience food stores, carryouts and mini-markets subject to the
additional standards in §
1172.08;
   (m)   Restaurant, fast food, with drive-through facilities subject to the
additional standards in §
1172.08;
   (n)   Taverns, bars and nightclubs;
   (o)   Fraternal and social associations;
   (p)   Motels and hotels;
   (q)   Commercial entertainment, indoor and commercial recreation, indoor;
   (r)   Theaters and concert halls, meeting and banquet halls;
   (s)   Commercial entertainment, outdoor, with structures set back at least
200 feet from any residential property;
   (t)   Vehicle sales, rental and services, not including farm equipment,
semi-tractor trailers and construction equipment;
   (u)   Automobile service stations, not including major repair, paint
spraying or body work subject to the additional standards in §
1172.06;
   (v)   Auto repair, body shops, automobile accessories subject to the
additional standards in §
1172.06;
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
   (w)   Automobile washing facilities subject to the additional standards in §
1172.07;
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
   (x)   Vehicle storage;
   (y)   Cellular or wireless communication systems. See
Chapter 1188 for additional requirements;
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
   (z)   Bakeries;
   (aa)   Publishing, printing and blueprinting shops;
   (bb)   Child day-care centers subject to the additional standards in §
1172.04; and
   (cc)   Offices.
      (1)   Business, professional and administrative offices;
      (2)   Offices of business and professional associations; and
      (3)   Medical offices and clinics.
   (dd)   Sweepstakes/internet café with no more than five computerized
sweepstakes devices per establishment. In a multi-tenant shopping center, an
ESTABLISHMENT shall mean each separate tenant space.
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999; Ord. 2004-15, passed 3-8-2004; Ord. 2004-155,
passed 1-10-2005; Ord. 2006-81, passed 8-28-2006; Am. Ord. 2011-64, passed 8-8-
2011)
§ 1159.03 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Animal hospitals, veterinarian clinics and kennels subject to the additional
standards in §
1172.11.
(Ord. 2004-155, passed 1-10-2005)
§ 1159.04 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses and structures are permitted as regulated by §
1171.07.
(Ord. 2004-155, passed 1-10-2005)
§ 1159.05 OBJECTIONABLE USES.
   Processes and equipment employed and goods produced or sold shall be limited
to those which are not objectionable by reason of odor, dust, smoke, cinders,
gas, fumes, noise, vibration, refuse matter or water-carried waste, and shall
comply with the B-1 District standards in
Chapter 1155. Objectionable noise shall be any noise prohibited by the Noise
Ordinance.
(Ord. 2004-155, passed 1-10-2005)
§ 1159.06 ENCLOSED BUILDINGS.
   All businesses, services or processing shall be conducted wholly within a
completely enclosed building, except for incidental display of merchandise, the
sale of automotive fuel, lubricants and fluids at service stations, loading and
unloading operations, parking, the outdoor display or storage of vehicles,
materials and equipment.
(Ord. 2004-155, passed 1-10-2005)
§ 1159.07 NIGHT OPERATION.
   No building customarily used for night operation shall have any openings,
other than stationary windows or required fire exits, within 200 feet of any
residence district, and any space used for loading or unloading of commercial
vehicles in connection with the operation shall not be within 100 feet of any
residence district.
(Ord. 2004-155, passed 1-10-2005)
§ 1159.08 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (a)   Generally. The following standards shall apply to all uses in B-
3 Districts:
Table 1159 - B-3 Development Standards
Table 1159 - B-3 Development Standards
Minimum lot area                         40,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                        200 feet
Minimum setbacks
   From any residential district      100 feet (a)
   Front and side                     25 feet (a)(b)
   Rear                               40 feet (a)
Maximum impervious surface ratio         .90
Minimum setback for accessory structures
   From any residential district      100 feet (a)
   Front (c)                          —
   Side                               25 feet
   Rear                               40 feet
Maximum height of accessory buildings    20 feet
(a)   Minimum setback for all structures, uses and parking, except where
specifically stated otherwise.
(b)   For lots fronting on two streets, the principal building shall be set
back from both streets according to the front setback of the district in which
it is located.
(c)   Accessory structures are not permitted in a front yard.
 
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
   (b)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be provided as specified in the
Landscape Ordinance.
   (c)   Site plan. A site plan shall be submitted prior to obtaining a
building permit as specified in
Chapter 1135.
   (d)   Height regulations. No principal or accessory structures shall exceed
three stories or 40 feet in height, except as provided in
Chapter 1181.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
   (e)    Parking and driveway structures. If the parking and/or driveway
structure is located adjacent to a residential district, the setback
requirements shall be as set forth in
Table 1159. Parking and driveway structures not adjacent to any residential use
or district shall:
      (1)   In the case of parking structures be set back from the front lot
line not less than 25 feet;
      (2)   Be set back from the side lot line not less than ten feet; and
      (3)   Be set back from the rear lot line not less than ten feet.
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999; Ord. 2004-155, passed 1-10-2005)
CHAPTER 1160: B-4 COMMERCIAL RECREATION DISTRICT
Section
1160.01   Purpose
1160.02   Principal permitted uses
1160.03   Accessory uses
1160.04   Development standards
1160.05   Approval required
Cross-reference:
   Commercial recreation facility, see §
1133.46
   Hotel defined, see §
1133.88
§ 1160.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Commercial Recreation District is to regulate intensive
recreation, resort and entertainment uses in order to mitigate their impact on
surrounding, less intensive, land uses. Because of their size, late hours of
operation and wide range of ancillary activities, a major theme park creates
significant impacts unlike any other uses in the B-1, B-2 or B-3 Business
Districts. Therefore, a special district was created to accommodate these
activities.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1160.02 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (a)   Mechanical rides or attractions;
   (b)   Indoor movie theaters;
   (c)   Amphitheaters;
   (d)   Arcades;
   (e)   Specialty retail shops and restaurants;
   (f)   Stages;
   (g)   Swimming facilities;
   (h)   Other similar uses compatible with divisions (a) through (g);
   (i)   Hotels and conference facilities;
   (j)   Professional offices; and
   (k)   Cellular or wireless communication systems. See
Chapter 1188 for additional requirements.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998; Ord. 2014-2, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 1160.03 ACCESSORY USES.
   (a)   Temporary lodging including apartments and dormitories;
   (b)   Water distribution and pumping facilities for the exclusive use of on-
site operations;
   (c)   Building and mechanical assembly and repair facilities for the
exclusive use of on-site operations;
   (d)   Fences;
   (e)   Ticket booths or guard shacks; and
   (f)   Signs.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1160.04 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (a)   Setbacks. Minimum setbacks from rights-of-way and property lines shall
be as follows:
Table 1160 - B-4 Setbacks
Permitted Use Setback from Right-of-Way Property Line Setback
                                        Front Side and Rear
Table 1160 - B-4 Setbacks
                                                     Setback  Property Line
Permitted Use                                        from     Setback
                                                     Right-   Front    Side and
                                                     of-Way            Rear
(1)   Mechanical rides or attractions
(2)   Indoor movie theaters
(3)   Amphitheaters
(4)   Arcades
(5)   Specialty retail shops and restaurants (a)  500 feet 500 feet 100 feet
(6)   Stages
(7)   Swimming facilities
(8)   Water distribution and pumping facilities
(9)   Building and mechanical assembly and repair
facilities
(10)   Hotels
(11)   Conference facilities                      50 feet  50 feet  25 feet
(12)   Professional offices
(13)   Parking garages                            50 feet  50 feet  25 feet
(14)   Parking lots                               15 feet  15 feet  15 feet
(a)   May be permitted no closer than 75 feet to a right-of-way if an extension
of an existing building.
 
   (b)   Minimum lot area. Two acres.
   (c)   Minimum lot width. Two hundred feet.
   (d)   Maximum building height. The maximum building height for all principal
permitted uses within 200 feet of a right-of-way shall be 40 feet.
   (e)   Landscaping. All uses within 200 feet of a right-of-way shall comply
with the requirements of the Landscape Ordinance.
   (f)   Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided as specified in
Chapter 1175.
   (g)   Signs. All signs within 200 feet of a right-of-way shall comply with
the requirements according to
Chapter 1187.
   (h)   Lighting. Lighting shall be reflected away from adjacent residential
districts.
   (i)   Noise. All uses shall comply with the city’s Noise Ordinance.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1160.05 APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   Uses in this district shall comply with the approval procedures pursuant to
Chapter 1135 except as specifically exempted below:
   (a)   Permitted uses contained in §
1160.02(a) through (h) and located a minimum of 500 feet from any right-of-way
shall be exempt from the procedures contained in
Chapter 1135 except that permits shall be required for all structures; and
   (b)   Accessory uses located a minimum of 50 feet from a right-of-way and
less than 200 square feet in area shall be exempt from the procedures contained
in
Chapter 1135.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998; Ord. 2014-2, passed 2-10-2014)
CHAPTER 1161: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
Section
1161.01   Purpose
1161.02   Permitted buildings and uses
1161.03   Land planning criteria
1161.04   Area and density regulations
1161.05   Peripheral setbacks
1161.06   Required open spaces
1161.07   Intent of procedural requirements; required charges
1161.08   Concept plan of development area
1161.09   Rezoning
1161.10   Referral for review and reports
1161.11   Report to Council
1161.12   Action by Council
1161.13   Change in zone map
1161.14   Final plan of a development area
1161.15   Conditions for approval by Commission
1161.16   Zoning certificates
1161.17   Progressive development
1161.18   Amendments to plan
Cross-reference:
   Fees, see §§
205.01,
1121.02
   PUD defined, see §
1133.122
§ 1161.01 PURPOSE.
   (a)   The purpose of the PUD District is to provide an alternate subdivision
and platting procedure and:
      (1)   To permit the creation of areas within the city that can be
developed or redeveloped with maximum flexibility in design;
      (2)   To promote the efficient use of land and facilitate an economic
arrangement of buildings, circulation systems and utilities; and to promote
conformance to the city’s Land Use and Thoroughfare Plan, Landscape Ordinance,
access management plan, Noise Ordinance, driveway approaches and curb cuts and
any other applicable regulations;
      (3)   To provide for and locate suitable supporting recreation
facilities, educational facilities and other public and semi-public common
facilities, while preserving the existing landscape to the greatest extent
possible;
      (4)   To encourage the most skillful planning in the arrangement of
buildings, the preservation of open space, the utilization of topography and
other site features;
      (5)   To obtain creative and coordinated architectural and site designs
harmonious and compatible with surrounding uses; and
      (6)   To encourage a mix of land use types and densities within a
development in order to establish a balanced overall development pattern.
   (b)   In order to carry out these purposes, procedures supplemental to those
applicable in other use districts are established in this chapter, under which
development plans particularly designed to meet these objectives may be
prepared and submitted for approval.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1161.02 PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND USES.
   Any use permitted in this Zoning Ordinance may be permitted in the Planned
Unit Development District provided that it is consistent with the overall
purpose of the PUD District and is compatible with the adjacent uses. Planning
Commission reserves the right to prohibit certain uses which it may find
objectionable for the reason that the uses are not consistent with the purpose
set forth in §
1161.01 or the use is not consistent with the land planning criteria of §
1161.03 or other requirements set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1161.03 LAND PLANNING CRITERIA.
   The following planning criteria are established to guide and control the
planning, development and use of land in a PUD District and are in addition to
all other applicable regulations in the Zoning Ordinance.
   (a)   Relationship of buildings to each other.
      (1)   Evaluation of appearance of a project shall be based on quality of
its overall design and relationship to surroundings. Architectural style is not
restricted; however, extremes of style not indigenous to the city are not
encouraged.
      (2)   Buildings shall be in scale and harmonious with permanent
neighboring developments.
      (3)   Materials shall be in harmony with adjoining structures.
      (4)   Materials shall be selected for suitability to the type of building
and design in which they are used.
      (5)   Materials shall be of durable quality.
      (6)   There should be definite transitions between changes of material
and plane while maintaining an overall simple geometry for the building mass.
      (7)   In any design in which the structural frame is exposed to view, the
structural materials shall be compatible within themselves and harmonious to
their surroundings.
      (8)   Exterior building components such as windows, doors, eaves and
parapets shall have balanced proportions.
      (9)   All sides of a structure should receive design consideration. A
facade unrelated to the rest of the building is not in keeping with acceptable
design.
      (10)   Colors shall be harmonious and accents, if used, shall be
compatible.
      (11)   All projections and mechanical details such as louvers, exposed
flashing, flues, vents, gutters and downspouts are to be recognized as
architectural features and are to be treated to match the color of the adjacent
surface or an approved complementary color.
      (12)   Mechanical equipment or other utility hardware on the roof, ground
or elevations shall, wherever possible, be located so as not to be visible from
any public ways or adjacent residential areas. Where the limitation on location
is not possible, the facilities shall be screened from public view with
landscaping and/or materials harmonious with building.
      (13)   Refuse and waste removal areas, service yards, storage yards and
exterior work areas shall be screened from view from public ways with
landscaping and/or materials harmonious with the building.
      (14)   Monotony of design in single or multiple building projects shall
be avoided. Variation of exterior wall material, detail, form and siting shall
be used to provide visual interest. In multiple building projects, variable
siting of individual buildings may be used to help prevent a monotonous
appearance.
   (b)   Relationship of buildings to site.
      (1)   Projects shall reflect the character of the site upon which they
are located. Compatibility to grade conditions, degree of exposure from
passers-by, the context of adjacent structures, exceptional views, tree masses
and size of the lot are some of the factors to be considered.
      (2)   The site shall be planned to accomplish a desirable transition with
the streetscape, and to provide for adequate planting, safe pedestrian movement
and parking areas.
      (3)   Consideration of the appropriateness of providing setbacks and
yards in excess of zoning restrictions is encouraged to enhance compatible
relationships between buildings, and between buildings and adjacent streets.
      (4)   Plans should demonstrate a concern for the conservation of energy
by their sensitivity to factors such as the orientation of a building, the use
and location of glass, and the use of landscape materials on the site.
      (5)   Parking areas shall be treated with decorative elements, building
wall extensions, plantings, beams or other means so as to minimize the impact
of parked vehicles on the view from public ways and adjacent residential areas.
      (6)   Fencing plans must be a part of the submittal at the earliest
stages and should be consistent with the general plan for the site.
      (7)   The design of fences and screening walls shall give specific
consideration to the relief of monotony, such as breaking up major lengths by
complementary landscaping.
      (8)   Newly installed utility services, and service revisions
necessitated by exterior alterations, shall be underground.
      (9)   Grades of walks, parking spaces, terraces and other paved areas
shall provide an inviting and stable appearance for walking and, if seating is
provided, for sitting.
      (10)   Residential units shall have access to or directly abut public or
common open space areas.
   (c)   Relationship of project to adjoining area.
      (1)   Designs shall demonstrate a harmony in texture, lines and masses
between all adjacent buildings. Monotony shall be avoided.
      (2)   The height and scale of each building shall be compatible with its
site and existing (or anticipated) adjoining buildings.
      (3)   Adjacent buildings of different architectural styles shall be made
compatible by means such as screens, sight breaks and materials.
      (4)   Attractive landscape transition or compatible use characteristics
to adjoining properties shall be provided.
      (5)   Project features that may have negative impacts upon adjacent
properties, such as parking lots, service entrances, loading zones, mechanical
equipment and the like, shall be buffered from the adjacent properties.
   (d)   Landscape and site treatment.
      (1)   Where natural or existing topographic patterns contribute to the
appearance of a development, they shall be preserved and enhanced. Modification
to topography will be permitted where it contributes to good appearance.
      (2)   Each landscape plan shall address the functional aspects of
landscaping such as drainage, erosion prevention, wind barriers, provisions for
shade, energy conservation, sound absorption, dust abatement and reduction of
glare.
      (3)   Landscape treatment shall be provided to enhance architectural
features, strengthen vistas and important axes, and to provide shade.
      (4)   Unity of design shall be achieved by repetition of certain plant
varieties and other materials, and by correlation with adjacent developments.
      (5)   Plant material shall be selected for interest in its structure,
texture, color and for its ultimate growth. Plants that are indigenous to the
area and others that will be hardy, harmonious to the design, and of attractive
appearance shall be used.
      (6)   Parking areas and related trafficways shall be enhanced with
landscaped areas, including trees or tree groupings.
      (7)   In locations where plants will be susceptible to injury by
pedestrian or motor traffic, they shall be protected by appropriate curbs, tree
guards or other devices.
      (8)   Where building sites limit planting, the placement of approved
trees in parkways is encouraged.
      (9)   Where landscaping is used as screening, it shall be equally
effective in winter and summer.
      (10)   In areas where general planting will not prosper, other materials
shall be used, such as fences, walls and pavings of wood, brick, stone, gravel
and cobbles. Suitable plants shall be combined with the materials where
possible.
      (11)   Landscape screening shall be of a height and density so that it
provides the full desired effect within three years growing time.
   (e)   Signs.
      (1)   Every sign shall have appropriate scale in its design and in its
visual relationship to buildings and surroundings.
      (2)   Every sign shall be designed as an integral architectural element
of the building and site to which it principally relates.
      (3)   The height of a sign shall not exceed the predominant height of the
principal building to which it relates, or the maximum height permitted by the
city’s sign regulations, whichever is lower.
      (4)   The colors, materials and lighting of every sign shall be
restrained and harmonious with the building and site to which it principally
relates.
      (5)   The number of colors and graphic elements on a sign shall be held
to the minimum needed to convey the sign’s major message, and shall be composed
in proportion to the area of the sign face. The listing of individual services
rendered or items offered for sale, and the use of telephone numbers, arrows
and multiple logos on a sign are generally unacceptable.
      (6)   Identification signs of a prototype design and corporation logos
shall conform to the criteria for all other signs.
      (7)   Each sign shall be compatible with signs on adjoining premises, and
shall not compete for attention.
   (f)   Lighting.
      (1)   All exterior lighting should balance the need for energy
conservation with needs for safety, security and decoration.
      (2)   Where decorative exterior floodlighting is used, it shall consist
of an appropriate composition of brightness relationships, textures and
restrained colors to dramatize a setting and extend the hours of the setting’s
usefulness. Floodlighting fixtures shall be located or shielded so that their
presence is minimized.
      (3)   All exterior lighting shall be part of the architectural and
landscape design concept. Fixtures, standards and all exposed accessories shall
be concealed or harmonious with other project design materials.
      (4)   In general, the height of exterior lighting fixtures shall not
exceed the predominant height of the principal building to which it relates.
      (5)   Exterior lighting shall not be designed to permit an adverse effect
upon neighboring properties. Designs shall specify appropriate light cut-off
angles for all sources of strong illumination.
      (6)   If high pressure sodium vapor luminaries are used for free-standing
parking lot and internal access route lighting, they should be color corrected
for compatibility.
   (g)   Miscellaneous structures and street hardware.
      (1)   Miscellaneous structures and street hardware (i.e., seating,
lighting, mailboxes and the like) shall be designed to be a part of the
architectural and landscape design concept.
      (2)   The materials shall be compatible, the scale shall be appropriate,
and the colors shall be in harmony with buildings and surroundings.
   (h)   Maintenance design factors.
      (1)   Continued quality of appearance depends upon the extent of quality
of maintenance. The choice of materials and their use, together with the types
of finishes and other protective measures, must be conducive to easy
maintenance and upkeep.
      (2)   Materials and finishes shall be selected for their durability and
wear as well as for their beauty. Proper measures and devices shall be
incorporated for protection against the elements, neglect, damage and abuse.
      (3)   Provisions for washing and cleaning of buildings and structures and
control of dirt and refuse shall be included in the design. Configurations that
tend to catch and accumulate debris, leaves, trash, dirt and rubbish shall be
avoided.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1161.04 AREA AND DENSITY REGULATIONS.
   The various area, yard and height regulations of a planned unit development
area in a PUD District are defined and set forth as follows.
   (a)   Development area. The minimum area to qualify as a planned unit
development area shall be not less than five contiguous acres. A parcel or
parcels of land with less acreage may be considered for planned development
when it is demonstrated that the smaller area has a unique feature of
geography, topography or other development aspect which is determined to be
appropriate for the district designation. However, contiguous property of less
than five acres may be added to a previously established PUD District without
any demonstrated basis.
   (b)   Lot width, setback and yard requirements. Lot width, setback and yard
requirements may be varied to accommodate a variety of structural patterns,
clustering design and housing types.
   (c)   Development area density. The maximum net density for single-family
residential use is six dwelling units per acre and the maximum net density for
multi-family is eight units per acre. The calculation of residential density
shall be determined by dividing the total number of units by the net
residential area. Net residential area excludes that portion dedicated to
right-of-way.
   (d)   Standards for increase in residential density.
      (1)   The Planning Commission may recommend authorization of an increase
in the residential density of the planned unit development. If the Planning
Commission finds that any of the following conditions would be created by an
increase in density, it may then use either of the provisions listed in
division (d)(2) hereof:
         A.   Inconvenient or unsafe access to the planned residential
development;
         B.   Traffic congestion in the streets which adjoin the planned
residential development; or
         C.   An excessive burden on parks, recreational areas, schools and
other public facilities which serve or are proposed to serve the planned
residential development.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may use either of the following provisions
in order to control the conditions specified in division (d)(1) hereof:
         A.   Prohibit any increase in density; or
         B.   Limit the increase in density by an amount which is sufficient to
avoid the creation of any of these conditions.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1161.05 PERIPHERAL SETBACKS.
   (a)   The minimum setbacks for buildings, parking and streets along the
boundary of any PUD District shall be the following:
 
Table 1161 - PUD Peripheral Setbacks
PUD Use             If adjacent to a     If adjacent to a non- If adjacent to a
                    residential district residential district  right-of-way
Non-residential use 75 feet              20 feet               50 feet
Residential use     40 feet              40 feet               50 feet
 
   (b)   The Planning Commission may allow for a reduction of the setbacks if
the applicant demonstrates that any negative impacts of reducing the setback is
sufficiently mitigated.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1161.06 REQUIRED OPEN SPACES.
   The planned unit development will only be approved if the development plan
contains areas to be allocated for common open space which satisfy the
standards governing the usability and quality of common open space that are
contained below.
   (a)   No open area may be accepted as common open space under the provisions
of this Zoning Ordinance unless it meets the following standards:
      (1)   Common open space shall comprise at least 20% of the project area;
      (2)   The location, shape, size and character of the common open space
shall be suitable for the planned unit development. Public utility and similar
easements and rights-of-way for water courses and other similar channels may be
acceptable for common open space provided it does not comprise more than 50% of
the minimum open space total, unless the land or right-of-way is usable as a
trail or similar purpose and has been approved by the Commission. Common open
space shall not include private yards, required setbacks between the project
boundary lines and buildings, and minimum spacing between buildings;
      (3)   Common open space shall be used for amenity or recreational
purposes or remain undeveloped. The uses authorized for the common open space
shall be appropriate to the scale and character of the planned unit
development, considering its size, density, expected population, including ages
and number, topography and the number and type of dwellings or uses to be
provided;
      (4)   Common open space shall be suitably improved for its intended use,
but common open space containing natural features worthy of preservation may be
left unimproved. The buildings, structures and improvements which are permitted
in the common open space shall be appropriate to the uses which are authorized
for the common open space and shall conserve and enhance the amenities of the
common open space having regard to its topography and unimproved condition;
      (5)   The development schedule which is part of the development plan
shall coordinate the improvement of the common open space, the construction of
buildings, structures and improvements in the common open space and the
construction of other buildings in the planned development;
      (6)   If the final development plan provides for buildings, structures or
improvements in the common open space, the developer shall provide a bond of
100% of the City Engineer’s estimate of the cost of those improvements so that
the buildings, structures and improvements will be completed before the final
plat is recorded. Upon request of the developer, the Planning Commission may
delay the requirements of posting bond, the delay to be based upon the
development schedule. If the developer does not complete the buildings,
structures and improvements at the time set forth in the schedule, then the
Commission shall require that a bond be provided for the remainder of the
improvements. The Commission shall release the bond or other assurance when the
buildings, structures or improvements have been completed according to the
development plan; and
      (7)   The use and improvement of the common open space shall be planned
in relation to any existing or proposed public or semi-public open space which
adjoins or which is within 1,500 feet of the perimeter of the planned
development.
   (b)   All land shown on the final development plan as common open space
shall be conveyed under one of the following options:
      (1)   It may be conveyed to a public agency which will agree to maintain
the common open space and any buildings, structures or improvements which have
been placed on it; and
      (2)   It may be conveyed to trustees provided in an indenture
establishing an association or similar organization for the maintenance of the
planned residential development. The common open space shall be conveyed to the
trustees subject to covenants to be approved by the Planning Commission which
restrict the common open space to the uses or extent of development specified
on the final development plan and which provide for the maintenance of the
common open space in a manner which assures its continuing use for its intended
purpose.
   (c)   No common open space may be put to any use not specified in the final
development plan unless the final development plan has been amended to permit
that use. However, no change of use so authorized may be considered as a waiver
of any of the covenants limiting the use of common open space areas and all
rights to enforce these covenants are expressly reserved.
   (d)   If the common open space is not conveyed to a public agency, either
one of the following methods of enforcement may be provided:
      (1)   The legal right to develop the common open space for those uses not
specified in the final development plan may be conveyed to a public agency;
      (2)   The restrictions governing the use, improvement and maintenance of
the common open space may be stated as conditions to the conveyance of the
common open space, the fee title to the common open space to vest in a public
agency, at its discretion, in the event of a substantial default in the stated
conditions; or
      (3)   The covenants governing the use, improvement and maintenance of the
common open space may authorize a public agency to enforce their provisions.
   (e)   The Chief Building Official shall not issue a building permit for any
building or structure shown on the final development plan for any stage of the
planned residential development unless the common open space allocated to that
stage by the development schedule has been conveyed under one of the options
provided in division (d) hereof.
§ 1161.07 INTENT OF PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS; REQUIRED CHARGES.
   (a)   It is the purpose of §§
1161.07 through
1161.18 to establish procedures, supplementary to those applicable in the
standard zoning districts created by this Zoning Ordinance, under which a
developer may prepare development plans particularly designed to meet the
objectives for a planned unit development. Procedures are also established for
professional review of the development plans, action thereon by the city and
the implementation thereof.
   (b)   The applicant shall be responsible for the reasonable expenses
incurred by the city in reviewing the plan or any modifications to the plan.
Expenses may include items such as the cost of professional and review
services, including expenses and legal fees in connection with reviewing the
plan and prepared reports, the publication and mailing of public notice in
connection therewith and any other reasonable expenses directly attributable
thereon.
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
   (c)   At the time of submitting the concept plan to the Planning Commission
for consideration, the applicant shall make a deposit in the office of the
Clerk in an amount equal to the estimated cost of the city’s expense. This
deposit shall be as established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One -
Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the deposit shall be as
set by ordinance from time to time. When this deposit has been depleted to 33%,
another deposit will be requested. For those projects where the city estimates
the city’s cost to be less than $500, no deposit will be required. In these
cases, the city’s cost will be recovered by billing the developer.
   (d)   Failure to pay the above within 30 days of invoice will stop all
processing of the concept plan.
§ 1161.08 CONCEPT PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT AREA.
   (a)   The developer is encouraged to meet with the City Planner and City
Engineer prior to submission of a concept plan. The intent of this meeting is
to discuss early and informally, the purpose and effect of the ordinance and
the criteria and standards contained herein. It will also give the developer
the opportunity to become familiar with zoning and other applicable
regulations, as well as the benefit of any comments on his or her specific
proposal by the city staff.
   (b)   The concept plan together with an application shall be filed with the
City Engineer. The application package must be submitted at least 30 days prior
to a regular Planning Commission meeting to be placed on the agenda for that
meeting. Prior to the meetings, copies of the concept plan and application
shall be forwarded to individual members of the Planning Commission, the Law
Director, the Utilities Director, City Planner, Police Chief, Park Director and
Fire Chief, for a report.
   (c)   The concept plan shall include the following information:
      (1)   The boundary of the proposed planned unit development with bearings
and distances indicated for all proposed boundary lines. The total area of the
proposed planned unit development should be indicated;
      (2)   The names of all adjacent property owners including those across
the street from the proposed development and within 200 feet;
      (3)   Existing features of the site within 100 feet including topography,
vegetation, roadways, structures, permanent facilities, drainage courses and
utilities;
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
      (4)   The specific location of proposed land uses within the planned unit
development. The amount of area dedicated to each type of land use shall be
indicated. The types of uses and their extent, size and composition in terms of
use, intensity and coverage of structures shall be specified. For residential
developments, dwelling unit density in terms of dwelling units per gross acre
and minimum lot sizes, frontages and setbacks shall be specified;
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
      (5)   The interior open space system;
      (6)   The conceptual circulation system, noting the primary roadway and
pedestrian systems within the project and their connection to the existing
network;
      (7)   All FEMA designated 100-year floodplain areas; and
      (8)   The zoning of all adjoining properties.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1161.09 REZONING.
   If rezoning is required, application may be made concurrent with the concept
plan according to the procedures established in
Chapter 1137.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1161.10 REFERRAL FOR REVIEW AND REPORTS.
   Upon receipt of a concept plan of a development area, the City Engineer
shall transmit a copy of the concept plan to the Law Director and planner (or
planning consultant) for their review, report and recommendation. The City
Engineer shall also transmit a copy of all covenants, restrictions and
easements to be recorded and covenants for maintenance to the Law Director for
his or her review, report and recommendation. The Law Director, Engineer and
Planner shall each, within 30 days from receiving a concept plan of the
development area, unless otherwise extended, provide and furnish to the
Planning Commission a report upon their respective jurisdiction with four
copies. Copies of each report shall be filed with the Planning Commission, one
copy shall be submitted to the Mayor and one copy filed with the City Manager.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1161.11 REPORT TO COUNCIL.
   (a)   Within 60 days, unless otherwise extended by consent of a developer,
after a concept plan has been filed with the City Engineer, the Planning
Commission shall evaluate the plan and reports required under §
1161.10, and it shall furnish to Council its detailed report and
recommendations with respect thereto. Planning Commission may extend the 60
days set forth above for good cause. The Planning Commission shall notify the
developer of any extension prior to the elapse of the original 60 days. Failure
to submit the report within 60 days shall not be deemed either an approval or
disapproval of the concept plan.
   (b)   The report of the Planning Commission shall include a finding either
that the concept plan complies with the regulations, standards, criteria and
purpose prescribed by this Zoning Ordinance for planned unit development areas
applicable to the proposal, or a finding of any failure of the compliance, and
a recommendation that the concept plan be approved, disapproved or modified. If
in any evaluation, the Planning Commission finds that any regulations,
standards or criteria prescribed by this Zoning Ordinance are inapplicable
because of unusual conditions of the development area, or the nature and
quality of the proposed design, it may recommend to Council that an adjustment
in the regulations, standards or criteria be made, and that special conditions
be required for the development, provided the adjustment or conditions will not
be in conflict with the promotion of the public health, safety and general
welfare of the municipality. The adjustments and conditions shall constitute a
part of the proposed concept plan.
   (c)   The concept plan, together with eight copies of the report of the
Planning Commission, shall be filed with the Clerk for submission to Council
and the Mayor.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1161.12 ACTION BY COUNCIL.
   (a)   Council, at its next regular meeting following receipt of the Planning
Commission report, or as otherwise extended by consent of the developer, shall
set a date for a public hearing on the concept plan of the development area,
including the report of the Commission thereon, and shall give at least 15
days’ notice of the time, place and purpose of such hearing by publication in
one newspaper of general circulation in the city.
   (b)   Following the public hearing, Council shall either approve, disapprove
or modify the concept plan in conformity with regulations, standards, criteria
and purpose prescribed by this Zoning Ordinance. Council may affirm any report
of the Planning Commission or disapprove a favorable report of the Planning
Commission by a majority vote of its members. If Council reverses a report of
the Commission recommending disapproval of a concept plan, it may only do so by
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members elected to or appointed to
Council.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998; Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999; Ord. 2015-90,
passed 10-12-2015)
§ 1161.13 CHANGE IN ZONE MAP.
   On filing of the required inspection fee, the City Engineer shall cause a
notation to be made on the Zone Map to reflect the area which is included in
the concept plan in a PUD District, and shall return the concept plan to the
Planning Commission with a report of Council’s action thereon.
(Ord. 2004-155, passed 1-10-2005)
§ 1161.14 FINAL PLAN OF A DEVELOPMENT AREA.
   The developer of any parcel or parcels of land for which a concept plan has
been approved by Council, and who has posted the inspection fee, may submit a
final plan of the development area. Twenty copies of the plan shall be filed
with the City Engineer at least 14 working days before the next regularly
scheduled Planning Commission meeting, and upon payment of the appropriate fees
shall be submitted by him or her to the Planning Commission.
   (a)   The final plan of the development area shall contain and be
accompanied by the following unless waived by Planning Commission as
inapplicable:
      (1)   Topography, at a two-foot contour interval, of the proposed
development area, including property lines, easements, street right-of-way,
existing structures, trees and landscape features existing thereon,
floodplains, wetlands, ravines, stream areas, ponds and lakes, and including a
certificate, by a registered engineer or surveyor, of the gross area of the
development area in acres and square feet;
      (2)   The vehicular and pedestrian traffic patterns, with a traffic
impact study, including the proposed location and design of public and private
streets; the directional flow and location of existing and proposed storm and
sanitary sewers and sewers connecting with existing or proposed municipal
interceptor, outlet or trunk sewers outside the development area; the location
and design of parking and service areas; and an estimate of traffic volumes to
be generated, including the assignment of traffic to proposed entrances and
exits;
      (3)   A site plan, including the proposed public and private street
system with right-of-way, all easements, the use and subdivision of all land
including common and private land, and the location of each existing structure
to be retained;
      (4)   A plat of the development area showing street right-of-way,
subdivided and common land and easements in accordance with the requirements of
the City Subdivision Regulations which shall be in form for recording;
      (5)   Detailed plans and specifications for all streets, sidewalks, storm
and sanitary sewers, water mains, street illumination, and all other site
features of the development area or that portion of the development area to be
developed, designed in accordance with the City Subdivision Regulations and
Building Codes. Upon approval and recommendation from the City Engineer,
Planning Commission may vary the city’s subdivision regulations to allow more
flexibility in design;
      (6)   A detailed landscape plan showing all site features and finished
grading for public and private lands within the development area;
      (7)   The final form of covenants running with the land and deed
restrictions (including the use of common land); covenants, restrictions or
easements to be recorded; declaration of covenants, restrictions and bylaws of
a home association and its incorporation; declaration of condominium ownership
and other covenants, if any, for maintenance;
      (8)   Estimated project cost, including estimates for all public and
private improvements;
      (9)   Construction schedule and land disposition program;
      (10)   Site plans, floor plans, elevations and cross sections for all
buildings;
      (11)   Descriptive data as to the type of buildings, square footage for
each use and number of dwelling units in each building type; and
      (12)   In the event the final plan of a development area includes the
subdivision of land, any map, plat or other data required for compliance with
the provisions of the City Subdivision Regulations.
   (b)   The Planning Commission may require additional drawings to supplement
the above when more information is needed or when special conditions occur.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1161.15 CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL BY COMMISSION.
   If the Planning Commission finds that a proposed final plan of development
area is in substantial accordance with and represents a detailed extension of
the concept plan heretofore approved by Council; that it complies with all of
the conditions and adjustments which may have been imposed in the approval of
the concept plan; that it is in accordance with the design criteria and
provisions of this Zoning Ordinance which apply particularly to any plan of the
planned unit development; that all agreements, contracts, deed restrictions,
dedications, declarations of ownership and other required documents are in
acceptable form and have been executed; that development pursuant to a
previously approved final plan is in accordance with that plan and the approved
concept plan; that all fee payments have been made and that the provisions of
the subdivision regulations have been met; that the location, design, size and
uses will result in an attractive, healthful, efficient and stable environment
for commerce and/or residential development; that the design size and use are
consistent with land use plans adopted by the Planning Commission or Council;
then the Commission shall approve the final plan.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1161.16 ZONING CERTIFICATES.
   No zoning certificates or other permits shall be issued until approval of
the final development plan, payment of the required fees and review of building
plans are complete.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1161.17 PROGRESSIVE DEVELOPMENT.
   When the final plan of the development area provides for partial development
of the total area for which a concept plan has been approved, the Planning
Commission may require inspections of the improvements then made, or detail
plans for all improvements in the development area to permit evaluation of the
progress and conformance of development of the entire parcel to the concept
plan or a previously approved final plan before further or partial development
may be approved.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1161.18 AMENDMENTS TO PLAN.
   At any time after the approval of a concept plan or a final plan of a
development area, the owner or owners may request an amendment of their plans;
the request of the amendment shall be filed with the City Engineer and one copy
filed with the Clerk of Council. If the amendment, as determined by Planning
Commission, represents a departure from the intent of, or a major departure
from the substance of, the concept plan, the amendment shall then be subject to
the same procedure and conditions of approval as the original application. For
the purposes of this section, a MAJOR DEPARTURE FROM THE SUBSTANCE OF A CONCEPT
PLAN shall include, but not be limited to, an increase in or relocation of
areas planned for a particular use or the addition of a use not included in the
approved concept plan.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
CHAPTER 1162: HT-1 HIGH TECH LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
Section
1162.01   Purpose
1162.02   Principal permitted uses
1162.03   Prohibited uses
1162.04   Development standards
Cross-reference:
   Noise, see
Ch. 511
   Nuisances generally, see
Ch. 521
   District established, see
Ch. 1145
   Signs, see
Ch. 1187
§ 1162.01 PURPOSE.
   (a)   It is the purpose of the High Tech Light Industrial District to create
quality high tech industrial development in campus type surroundings. This
district will be created in areas of the city generally adjoining interstates
or other major vehicular thoroughfares which will not adversely affect adjacent
residential neighborhoods. This district shall provide for uses which:
      (1)   Have no objectionable influences; and
      (2)   Whose objectionable features will be completely enclosed within the
building structure.
   (b)   In the interest of general health and welfare, residential and certain
institutional uses are not permitted in this district.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1162.02 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   No building, structure or land shall be used and no building or structure
shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or designed
for other than one of the following uses.
   (a)   Office. All principal permitted uses and conditional uses as included
in the O-1 Office Park District in
Chapter 1153.
   (b)   Manufacturing, fabricating, assembly, testing, repair, servicing and
processing. Manufacturing, fabricating, assembly, testing, repair, servicing
and processing of the following:
      (1)   Aircraft parts other than engines;
      (2)   Apparel with the exception of leather and fur goods;
      (3)   Audio products;
      (4)   Bags;
      (5)   Brooms and brushes;
      (6)   Communication equipment;
      (7)   Costume novelties, buttons and novelties;
      (8)   Diecut paper, paperboard and cardboard;
      (9)   Drugs;
      (10)   Electric lighting and wiring equipment;
      (11)   Electrical industrial apparatus;
      (12)   Electronic components and accessories;
      (13)   Electronic computing equipment;
      (14)   Envelopes;
      (15)   Fabricated textile products;
      (16)   Fabricated wire products;
      (17)   Furniture and fixtures;
      (18)   Glass containers;
      (19)   Glassware, pressed and blown;
      (20)   Guided missiles and space vehicles;
      (21)   Jewelry, silverware and plated ware;
      (22)   Lampshades except metal;
      (23)   Luggage;
      (24)   Musical instruments and parts;
      (25)   Office machines;
      (26)   Office showroom;
      (27)   Paperboard containers and boxes;
      (28)   Pens, pencils and other office/artists supplies;
      (29)   Perfumes, cosmetics and other toilet preparations;
      (30)   Photographic and optical goods, watches and clocks;
      (31)   Plumbing fixtures and heating apparatus;
      (32)   Pottery and related products;
      (33)   Professional, scientific and controlling instruments;
      (34)   Radio and television sets, except communication types;
      (35)   Service industry machines;
      (36)   Sighting and fire control equipment;
      (37)   Small arms;
      (38)   Special industry machinery except metal working equipment;
      (39)   Toys, amusements, sporting and athletic goods; and
      (40)   Umbrellas, parasols and canes.
   (c)   Other establishments. Other establishments including:
      (1)   Commercial parking garages and lots if accessory to a principal
permitted use;
      (2)   Data processing services;
      (3)   Motels, hotels;
      (4)   Motion picture production;
      (5)   Public utility substations; and
      (6)   Warehouses directly associated with manufacturing or related
operations on- site. The square footage of the footprint of the warehouse area
cannot exceed 50% of the square footage of the footprint of the entire
facility.
   (d)   Sexually oriented businesses. Sexually oriented businesses are also
permitted subject to the supplemental standards set forth in
Chapter 1189.
   (e)   Cellular or wireless communications systems. See
Chapter 1188 for additional requirements.
   (f)   Additional uses. Any other use which the Planning Commission may find
to be similar in character to the uses, including accessory uses, enumerated in
this section and consistent with the purpose and intent of this district.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998; Ord. 2017-52, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 1162.03 PROHIBITED USES.
   Prohibited uses are as follows:
   (a)   Residential dwellings, dwelling units and residences of any kind with
the exception of motels, hotels or rooming houses;
   (b)   Any use which required the storage of parts or finished products not
within the principal structure is strictly prohibited;
   (c)   Any use which emits any type of noxious or offensive emissions of
smoke, dust, gas, fumes, odors or vibrations beyond the building line is
strictly prohibited; and
   (d)   Any use which emits noise in violation of the Noise Ordinance is
strictly prohibited.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1162.04 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (a)   Generally. The following development standards shall apply to HT-
1 Districts:
Table 1162 - HT-1 Development Standards
Table 1162 - HT-1 Development Standards
Minimum area of   10 acres
district
Minimum lot area  43,560 square feet per lot
Minimum lot width 150 feet
Minimum lot depth 200 feet
Minimum setback   Not abutting a       Abutting a           Abutting right of-
requirements      residential district residential district way
   Front       50 feet (a)          50 feet (a)          50 feet (a)
   Side        15 feet (a)          100 feet (a)         50 feet (a)
   Rear        25 feet (a)          100 feet (a)         50 feet (a)
Maximum height    60 feet (a)
(a)   Required setbacks are shown for a maximum height of 60 feet. For every
one foot of height above the 60-foot maximum, each of the required front, side
and rear yard setbacks are increased by two feet. No building shall exceed a
maximum height of 90 feet.
 
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
   (b)   Storage/loading. All uses, including storage, loading and unloading
shall be conducted entirely within an enclosed building. Loading and unloading
activities shall satisfy the provisions of this division if:
      (1)   A vehicle or trailer is located sufficiently close to the exterior
wall or loading dock of the building so that all loading and unloading occurs
between the confines of the building and the interior of the vehicle or
trailer; and
      (2)   The vehicle or trailer is located on the rear of the building and
is sufficiently screened from view from the roadway and any adjoining
properties as determined by the Planning Commission to be necessary to conceal
the loading and unloading activities from view.
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
   (c)   Off-street parking and loading.
      (1)   In addition to the requirements contained in division (b) above,
off-street parking and loading facilities shall be provided as specified in
Chapter 1175.
      (2)   Outside parking of any vehicle over 25 feet in length for a period
of more than 24 hours is prohibited.
      (3)   Parking of fleet vehicles, as defined in §
1133.78, shall be prohibited in front of the building line, and outside parking
of more than five fleet vehicles shall be prohibited unless completely screened
from adjacent properties and public rights-of-way with a wall constructed of
the same material as the principal building.
   (d)   Exterior building material.
      (1)   Unfinished or unpainted non-decorative concrete block shall not be
used on any exterior wall.
      (2)   Metal siding shall not be used on any wall facing a public street
or a residential district. If metal siding is utilized on any remaining wall,
it shall be subject to the approval of Planning Commission.
      (3)   A combination of brick, masonry, glass, architectural metal wall
panels, or other suitable building materials shall be used on the front facade
of the building, subject to the approval by the Planning Commission.
   (e)   Mechanical screening. All roof mounted mechanical equipment shall be
screened from view from adjacent property and zoning districts and from road
rights-of-way in all zoning districts using durable, compatible, opaque
materials.
   (f)   Fencing. In addition to the regulations in §
1185.02, any fencing proposed shall be subject to the approval of the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 2004-155, passed 1-10-2005; Ord. 2015-89, passed 9-28-2015)
CHAPTER 1163: I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
Section
1163.01   Purpose
1163.02   Principal permitted uses
1163.03   Prohibited uses
1163.04   Development standards
1163.05   Accessory permitted uses
Cross-reference:
   District established, see
Ch. 1145
   Noise, see
Ch. 511
   Nuisances generally, see
Ch. 521
   Signs, see
Ch. 1187
§ 1163.01 PURPOSE.
   (a)   It is the purpose of the I-1 District to create industrial areas that
will be acceptable within the city and will not adversely affect adjacent
business or residential neighborhoods by permitting industrial establishments
which are either:
      (1)   Relatively free from objectionable influences; or
      (2)   Ones whose objectionable features will be obviated by design and/or
appropriate devices.
   (b)   In the interest of general health and welfare, residential and certain
institutional uses are not permitted within this district.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1163.02 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   No building, structure or land shall be used and no building or structure
shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or designed
for other than one of the following uses:
   (a)   Manufacturing. Light industrial use which ordinarily uses only light
machinery and is conducted entirely within an enclosed, substantially
constructed building and is not noxious or offensive by reasons of the emission
of smoke, dust, gas fumes, odors, noises or vibrations beyond the confines of
the building;
   (b)   Warehousing, storage, and distribution. Uses which include the
warehousing, storage, or distribution of goods and materials, which may include
wholesale distribution from one business to another business and which may not
include retail or customer sales to the general public on the premises;
   (c)   Contractor’s yard and related establishments. Building material yards,
excluding concrete mixing, contractor’s equipment storage yard or plant; or
storage yard for rental of equipment commonly used by contractors; storage and
sales of grain, livestock feed or fuel; carting, express or hauling
establishments, including storage of vehicles; provided the uses are conducted:
      (1)   Wholly within a completely enclosed building or buildings, except
for storage of vehicles, which building shall be distant at least 100 feet from
any residential district, unless the building has no openings other than
stationary windows and required fire exits within the distance, but not within
50 feet of any residential district in any case; or
      (2)   When conducted within an area completely enclosed on all sides with
a solid wall or uniformly painted solid board fence not less than six feet
high, but not within 200 feet of any residential district; provided further
that all storage yards related to the uses in this division shall be enclosed.
   (d)   Sexually oriented businesses. Sexually oriented businesses are also
permitted subject to the supplemental standards set forth in
Chapter 1189;
   (e)   Cellular or wireless communications systems. See
Chapter 1188 for additional requirements;
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
   (f)   Automobile repair shops. Automobile repair shops performing major
repair work, including automobile body repair and painting, automobile glass
work, automobile transmission work, automobile engine overhaul and repair, and
radiator repair work; and
   (g)   Office. Office for corporate and regional headquarters.
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999; Ord. 2004-15, passed 3-8-2004; Ord. 2016-54,
passed 4-11-2016; Ord. 2017-52, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 1163.03 PROHIBITED USES.
   Prohibited uses are as follows:
   (a)   Residential. Dwellings, dwelling units and residences of any kind,
including hotels, motels, rooming houses and other tourist homes and bed and
breakfasts;
   (b)   Institutional. Schools, orphanages, child day-care centers, churches,
homes for the aged and similar institutions for human care; and
   (c)   Business. Those businesses authorized for central business districts,
shopping center districts and road service districts.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1163.04 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The following development standards shall apply to I-1 districts:
   (a)   Development standards.
Table 1163 - I-1 Development Standards
Table 1163 - I-1 Development Standards
Minimum lot area                                2 acres
Maximum building height (a)                     40 feet
Minimum Setback
Structures NOT abutting a residential district   
(a)
   Front (b)                                 25 feet
   Side                                      12 feet
   Rear                                      10 feet
Structures abutting a residential district (a)   
   Front                                     50 feet
   Side and rear                             100 feet
Parking structures or paved areas                
   Front (c)                                 25 feet
   Side and rear                             10 feet
(a)   Minimum setbacks are for structures up to 40 feet in height. For each
additional foot in height, the setback shall increase by two feet. No
building shall exceed 90 feet in height.
(b)   For lots fronting on two streets, the front setback shall apply to both
yards abutting the street right-of-way.
(c)   Excludes areas required for access to street.
 
   (b)   Off-street parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as specified in
Chapter 1175.
   (c)   Storage and unloading. The storage of raw materials and/or
manufactured products shall be behind the rear of the building and shall be
sufficiently screened from view from the roadway and the adjoining properties
as determined by the Planning Commission to be necessary to conceal the storage
from view. Loading and unloading operations shall be conducted in the rear or
side of the building and shall be sufficiently screened from view from the
roadway and the adjoining properties as determined by the Planning Commission
to be necessary to conceal the loading and unloading operations from view.
   (d)   Exterior building material.
      (1)   Unfinished or unpainted non-decorative concrete block shall not be
used on any exterior wall.
      (2)   Metal siding shall not be used on any wall facing a public street
or a residential district. If metal siding is utilized on any remaining wall,
it shall be subject to the approval of Planning Commission.
      (3)   A combination of brick, masonry, glass, architectural metal wall
panels, or other suitable building materials shall be used on the front facade
of the building, subject to the Planning Commission approval.
   (e)   Mechanical screening. All roof mounted mechanical equipment shall be
screened from view from all adjacent property and zoning districts and from
road rights-of-way in all zoning districts using durable, compatible, opaque
materials.
(Ord. 2004-155, passed 1-10-2005; Ord. 2015-89, passed 9-28-2015)
§ 1163.05 ACCESSORY PERMITTED USES.
   Accessory permitted uses shall be limited to those set forth as follows:
   (a)   Any accessory use customarily incidental to a principal permitted use;
and
   (b)   A dwelling unit for the family of a watchman, caretaker, guard or
operator provided that the dwelling unit is located on a tract used for an
industrial purpose and within a building used primarily for an industrial
purpose, where the dwelling unit occupies no more than 25% of the lot area, and
does not exceed one-third of the area of the whole building. The dwelling unit
shall be occupied only by the watchman, caretaker, guard or operator employed
by the individual, firm or corporation which owns, rents, leases or operates
the industrial use located on the tract.
   (c)   The storage, handling, and distribution of flammable and combustible
liquids shall be limited to a 10,000 gallon aggregate capacity at any one time.
   (d)   The storage, handling, and distribution of flammable gases shall be
limited to a 2,000 gallon aggregate capacity at any one time.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998; Ord. 2016-54, passed 4-11-2016)
CHAPTER 1165: I-2 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
Section
1165.01   Purpose
1165.02   Principal permitted uses
1165.03   Prohibited uses
1165.04   Development standards
1165.05   Accessory permitted uses
Cross-reference:
   District established, see
Ch. 1145
   Noise, see
Ch. 511
   Nuisances generally, see
Ch. 521
   Signs, see
Ch. 1187
§ 1165.01 PURPOSE.
   (a)   It is the purpose of the I-2 District to create industrial areas that
will be acceptable within the city and will not adversely affect adjacent
business or residential neighborhoods by permitting industrial establishments
which are either:
      (1)   Ones whose operations are relatively free from objectionable
influences; or
      (2)   Ones whose objectionable features will be obviated by design and/or
appropriate devices.
   (b)   In the interest of general health and welfare, residential and certain
institutional uses are not permitted within this district.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1165.02 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   No building, structure or land shall be used and no building or structure
shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or designed
for other than one of the following uses:
   (a)   Manufacturing. An industrial use which ordinarily uses heavy
machinery, requires both buildings and open area for manufacturing,
fabricating, processing, heavy repairing, dismantling, storage or disposal of
raw materials, manufactured products and wastes, which is not injurious to
health or safety of humans or animals or injurious to vegetation; and which is
not noxious or offensive by reason of the emission of smoke, dust, gas fumes,
odors or vibrations beyond the limits of the premises upon which the industry
is conducted;
   (b)   Warehousing, storage, and distribution. Uses which include the
warehousing, storage, or distribution of goods and materials, which may include
wholesale distribution from one business to another business and which may not
include retail or customer sales to the general public on the premises;
   (c)   Sexually oriented businesses. Sexually oriented businesses are also
permitted subject to the supplemental standards set forth in
Chapter 1189;
   (d)   Cellular or wireless communications systems. See
Chapter 1188 for additional requirements;
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999; Ord. 2004-155, passed 1-10-2005; Ord. 2016-54,
passed 4-11-2016)
   (e)   Automobile repair shops. Automobile repair shops performing major
repair work, including automobile body repair and painting, automobile glass
work, automobile transmission work, automobile engine overhaul and repair, and
radiator repair work; and
   (f)   General offices. General offices directly associated with related
operations on-site. The square footage of the office cannot exceed 50% of the
square footage of the footprint of the entire facility.
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999; Ord. 2004-155, passed 1-10-2005; Ord. 2016-54,
passed 4-11-2016; Ord. 2017-52, passed 5-15- 2017)
§ 1165.03 PROHIBITED USES.
   Prohibited uses are as follows:
   (a)   Residential. Dwellings, dwelling units and residences of any kind,
including hotels, motels, rooming houses, tourist homes, and bed and breakfast
and guest houses;
   (b)   Institutional. Schools, orphanages, child day-care centers, churches,
homes for the aged and similar institutions for human care; and
   (c)   Business. Those businesses authorized for central business districts,
shopping center districts and road service districts.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1165.04 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The following development standards shall apply to I-2 Districts:
   (a)   Development standards.
Table 1165 - I-2 Development Standards
Table 1165 - I-2 Development Standards
Minimum lot area                               5 acres
Maximum building height (a)                    40 feet
Minimum Setback
Structures NOT abutting residential district    
(a)
   Front (b)                                50 feet
   Side                                     12 feet
   Rear                                     10 feet
Structures abutting a residential district (a)  
   Front                                    50 feet
   Side and rear                            100 feet
Parking structures or paved areas               
   Front (c)                                25 feet
   Side and rear                            10 feet
(a)   Minimum setbacks are for structures up to 40 feet in height. For each
additional foot in height, the setback shall increase by two feet. No building
shall exceed 90 feet in height.
(b)   For lots fronting on two streets, the front setback shall apply to both
yards abutting the street right-of-way.
(c)   Excludes areas required for access to street.
 
   (b)   Off-street parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as specified in
Chapter 1175.
   (c)   Storage and unloading. All outside operations and storage of raw
materials and/or manufactured products shall be behind the rear of the building
and shall be sufficiently screened from view from the roadway and adjoining
properties as determined by the Planning Commission to be necessary to conceal
the operation and storage from view. Loading and unloading operations shall be
conducted in the rear or side of the building and shall be sufficiently
screened from view from the roadway and adjoining properties as determined by
the Planning Commission to be necessary to conceal the loading and unloading
operations from view.
   (d)   Exterior building material.
      (1)   Unfinished or unpainted non-decorative concrete block shall not be
used on any exterior wall.
      (2)   Metal siding used on any wall shall be subject to the approval of
Planning Commission.
      (3)   A combination of brick, masonry, glass, architectural metal wall
panels, or other suitable building materials shall be used on the front facade
of the building, subject to Planning Commission approval.
   (e)   Mechanical screening. All roof mounted mechanical equipment shall be
screened from view from all adjacent property and zoning districts and from
road rights-of-way in all zoning districts using durable, compatible, opaque
materials.
(Ord. 2004-155, passed 1-10-2005; Ord. 2015-89, passed 9-28-2015)
§ 1165.05 ACCESSORY PERMITTED USES.
   Accessory permitted uses shall be limited to those set forth as follows:
   (a)   The storage, handling, and distribution of flammable and combustible
liquids shall be limited to a 10,000 gallon aggregate capacity at any one time.
   (b)   The storage, handling, and distribution of flammable gases shall be
limited to a 2,000 gallon aggregate capacity at any one time.
(Ord. 2016-54, passed 4-11-2016)
CHAPTER 1169: FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT AND FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
Section
1169.01   Statutory authorization
1169.02   Findings of fact
1169.03   Statement of purpose
1169.04   Methods of reducing flood loss
1169.05   Lands to which these regulations apply
1169.06   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
1169.07   Abrogation and greater restrictions
1169.08   Interpretation
1169.09   Warning and disclaimer of liability
1169.10   Severability
1169.11   Definitions
1169.12   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
1169.13   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
1169.14   Floodplain development permits
1169.15   Application required
1169.16   Review and approval of a floodplain development permit application
1169.17   Inspections
1169.18   Post-construction certifications required
1169.19   Revoking a floodplain development permit
1169.20   Exemption from filing a development permit
1169.21   Map maintenance activities
1169.22   Data use and flood map interpretation
1169.23   Substantial damage determinations
1169.24   Use and development standards for flood hazard reduction
1169.25   Use regulations
1169.26   Water and wastewater systems
1169.27   Subdivisions and large developments
1169.28   Residential structures
1169.29   Nonresidential structures
1169.30   Accessory structures
1169.31   Recreational vehicles
1169.32   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks
1169.33   Assurance of flood carrying capacity
1169.34   Appeals Board established
1169.35   Powers and duties
1169.36   Appeals
1169.37   Variances
1169.38   Procedure at hearings
1169.39   Appeal to the court
1169.40   Compliance required
1169.41   Notice of violation
1169.99   Violations and penalties
Statutory reference:
   Construction permits and prohibitions for dams, dikes or levees, see R.C. §
1521.06
   Marking flood areas, see R.C. § 1521.14
   Reduction of assessed valuation for establishing reservoirs, see R.C. §
1521.09
§ 1169.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   Article XVIII, § 3, of the Ohio Constitution grants municipalities the legal
authority to adopt land use and control measures for promoting the health,
safety and general welfare of its citizens. Therefore, the City Council does
ordain as follows in this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The City of Mason has special flood hazard areas that are subject to
periodic inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax
base. Additionally, structures that are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage also contribute to the flood loss. In
order to minimize the threat of such damages and to achieve the purposes
hereinafter set forth, these regulations are adopted.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of these regulations to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare, and to:
   (a)   Protect human life and health;
   (b)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (c)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (d)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (e)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (f)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the proper use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to protect property and
minimize future flood blight areas;
   (g)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions;
   (h)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within and
near flood prone areas;
   (i)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
   (j)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial values
of the floodplain;
   (k)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or environmentally
incompatible; and
   (1)   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish their purposes, these regulations include methods and
provisions for:
   (a)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   (b)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (c)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
   (d)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating, and other
development which may increase flood damage; and
   (e)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers, which
will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.05 LANDS TO WHICH THESE REGULATIONS APPLY.
   These regulations shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the City of Mason as identified as the Floodplain Overlay
District and in §
1169.06, including any additional areas of special flood hazard annexed by City
of Mason. The Floodplain Overlay District map is on file at the City of Mason
Municipal Center located at 6000 Mason-Montgomery Road, Mason, Ohio 45040.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.06 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE ARES OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   (a)   For the purposes of these regulations, the following studies and/or
maps are adopted:
      (1)   Flood Insurance Study Warren County, Ohio and Incorporated Areas
and Flood Insurance Rate Map Warren County, Ohio and Incorporated Areas both
effective December 17, 2010.
      (2)   Other studies and/or maps, which may be relied upon for
establishment of the flood protection elevation, delineation of the 100-year
floodplain, floodways or delineation of other areas of special flood hazard,
including the 500-year floodplain and floodway.
      (3)   Any hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis authored by a
registered professional engineer in the State of Ohio which has been approved
by the City of Mason as required by §
1169.27 Subdivisions and Large Scale Developments.
   (b)   Any revisions to the aforementioned maps and/or studies are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations. Such maps
and/or studies are on file at the City of Mason Municipal Center located at
6000 Mason-Montgomery Road, Mason, Ohio 45040.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.07 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   These regulations are not intended to repeal any existing ordinances
including subdivision regulations, zoning or building codes. In the event of a
conflict between these regulations and any other ordinance, the more
restrictive shall be followed. These regulations shall not impair any deed
restriction covenant or easement but the land subject to such interests shall
also be governed by the regulations.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.08 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of these regulations, all provisions
shall be:
   (a)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (b)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (c)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes. Where a provision of these regulations may be in conflict with
a state or Federal law, such state or Federal law shall take precedence over
these regulations.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.09 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by these regulations is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. These regulations do
not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. These regulations
shall not create liability on the part of the City of Mason, any officer or
employee thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any flood
damage that results from reliance on these regulations or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.10 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section or provision of these regulations be declared by the
courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the regulations as a whole, or any part thereof other than the part
so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.11 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in these
regulations shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in
common usage and to give these regulations the most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same lot with, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal structure.
   APPEAL.  A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of these regulations or a request for a
variance.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The base flood may also be referred to as the 1% chance annual
flood or 100-year flood.
   BASE (100-YEAR) FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the
base flood in relation to a specified datum, usually the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum of 1929 or the North  American Vertical Datum of 1988, and
usually expressed in Feet Mean Sea Level (MSL). In Zone AO areas, the base
flood elevation is the natural grade elevation plus the depth number (from one
to three feet).
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR.  See “Lowest Floor.”
   EXECUTIVE ORDER 11988 (FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT). Issued by President Carter in
1977, this order requires that no federally assisted activities be conducted in
or have the potential to affect identified special flood hazard areas, unless
there is no practicable alternative.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FILL. A deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters, and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM).  Usually the initial map, produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, or U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, for  a community depicting approximate special flood hazard areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has delineated the areas of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RISK ZONES. Zone designations on FHBMs and FIRMs that
indicate the magnitude of the flood hazard in specific areas of a community.
Following are the zone definitions:
      (1)   ZONE A: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood;
base flood elevations are not determined.
      (2)   ZONES A1-30 AND ZONE AE: Special flood hazard areas inundated by
the 100-year flood; base flood elevations are determined.
      (3)   ZONE AO: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; with flood depths of one to three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping
terrain); average depths are determined.
      (4)   ZONE AH: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; flood depths of one to three feet (usually areas of ponding); base flood
elevations are determined.
      (5)   ZONE A99: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood to be protected from the 100-year flood by a Federal flood protection
system under construction; no base flood elevations are determined.
      (6)   ZONE B AND ZONE X (SHADED): Areas of 500-year flood; areas subject
to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot or with
contributing drainage area less than one square mile; and areas protected by
levees from the base flood.
      (7)   ZONE C AND ZONE X (UNSHADED): Areas determined to be outside the
500-year floodplain.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report in which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has provided flood profiles, floodway boundaries (sometimes shown
on Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps), and the water surface elevations of the
base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The Flood Protection Elevation, or FPE, is the
base flood elevation plus two feet of freeboard. In areas where no base flood
elevations exist from any authoritative source, the flood protection elevation
can be historical flood elevations, or base flood elevations determined and/or
approved by the Floodplain Administrator.
   FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT. Also known as “500-year flood”, it is the land
in the floodplain subject to a 0.2% or greater chance of flooding in any given
year, as designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency on Flood
Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Insurance Studies, Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps
and Flood Hazard Boundary Maps as Zones B and Zone X (shaded).
   FLOODWAY. A floodway is the channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that have been reserved in order to pass the base flood
discharge. A floodway is typically determined through a hydraulic and
hydrologic engineering analysis such that the cumulative increase in the water
surface elevation of the base flood discharge is no more than a designated
height. In no case shall the designated height exceed the National Flood
Insurance Program minimum standards at any point within the community. 
      (1)   The City of Mason requires no more than 0.10 feet rise at any point
within the community as shown on the Floodplain Overlay District.
      (2)   The floodway is an extremely hazardous area, and is usually
characterized by any of the following: Moderate to high velocity flood waters,
high potential for debris and projectile impacts, and moderate to high erosion
forces.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for the purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the
hydrologic effect of urbanization in a watershed.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listings on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district; or
      (3)   Individually listed on the State of Ohio's inventory of historic
places maintained by the Ohio Historic Preservation Office.
      (4)   Individually listed on the inventory of historic places maintained
by the Mason Historic Society whose historic preservation program has been
certified by the Ohio Historic Preservation Office.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS. An analysis performed by a
professional engineer, registered in the State of Ohio, in accordance with
standard engineering practices as accepted by FEMA, used to determine flood
elevations and/or floodway boundaries.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A letter of map change is an official FEMA
determination, by letter, to amend or revise effective flood insurance  rate
maps, flood boundary and floodway maps, and flood insurance studies. LOMCs are
broken down into the following categories:
      (1)   Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated special flood
hazard area. A LOMA amends the current effective flood insurance rate map and
establishes that a specific property is not located in a special flood hazard
area.
      (2)   Letter of Map Revision (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to manmade changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features. One
common type of LOMR, a LOMR-F, is a determination concerning whether a
structure or parcel has been elevated by fill above the base flood elevation
and is, therefore, excluded from the special flood hazard area.
      (3)   Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment by FEMA as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum
National Flood Insurance Program floodplain management criteria. A CLOMR does
not amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps, or flood insurance studies.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement) of a structure. This definition excludes an “enclosure below the
lowest floor” which is an unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, provided that such enclosure is built in accordance with the
applicable design requirements specified in these regulations for enclosures
below the lowest floor.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”. For the purposes
of these regulations, a manufactured home includes manufactured homes and
mobile homes as defined in R.C. Chapter 3733.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. As specified in the Ohio Administrative Code 3701-
27-01, a manufactured home park means any tract of land upon which three or
more manufactured homes, used for habitation are parked, either free of charge
or for revenue purposes, and includes any roadway, building, structure,
vehicle, or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the facilities of the
park. A tract of land that is subdivided and the individual lots are not for
rent or rented, but are for sale or sold for the purpose of installation of
manufactured homes on the lots, is not a manufactured home park, even though
three or more manufactured homes are parked thereon, if the roadways are
dedicated to the local government authority.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The NFIP is a federal program
enabling property owners in participating communities to purchase insurance
protection against losses from flooding. This insurance is designed to provide
an insurance alternative to disaster assistance to meet the escalating costs of
repairing damage to buildings and their contents caused by floods.
Participation in the NFIP is based on an agreement between local communities
and the federal government that states if a community will adopt and enforce
floodplain management regulations to reduce future flood risks to all
development in special flood hazard areas, the federal government will make
flood insurance available within the community as a financial protection
against flood loss.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
on or after the initial effective date of the City of Mason Flood Insurance
Rate Map, March 15, 1979, and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   PERSON. Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other entity, including state and local
governments and agencies. An agency is further defined in R.C. § 111.15 as any
governmental entity of the state and includes, but is not limited to, any
board, department, division, commission, bureau, society, council, institution,
state college or university, community college district, technical college
district, or state community college. “Agency” does not include the general
assembly, the controlling board, the adjutant general's department, or any
court.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ARCHITECT. A person registered to engage in the
practice of architecture under the provisions of R.C. §§ 4703.01 to 4703.19.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER.  A person registered as a professional
engineer under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR. A person registered as a professional
surveyor under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Also known as “Areas of Special Flood Hazard”, it
is the land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in
any given year. Special flood hazard areas are designated by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency on flood insurance rate maps, flood insurance
studies, flood boundary and floodway maps and flood hazard boundary maps as
Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-30, and A99. Special flood hazard  areas may also refer
to areas that are flood prone and designated from other federal state or local
sources of data including but not limited to historical flood information
reflecting high water marks, previous flood inundation areas, and flood prone
soils associated with a watercourse.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  The date the building permit was issued, provided
the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit
date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of a building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, manufactured home, or gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement.  This term includes structures, which have incurred “substantial
damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include:
      (1)   Any improvement to a structure that is considered “new
construction,”
      (2)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified prior to the application for a development permit by
the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (3)   Any alteration of a “historic structure,” provided that the
alteration would not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the standards of these regulations
consistent with the variance conditions herein.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these regulations.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.12 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Manager or official designee for the City of Mason is hereby
appointed to administer and implement these regulations and is referred to
herein as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.13 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include but are not limited to:
   (a)   Evaluate applications for permits to develop in special flood hazard
areas.
   (b)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information.
   (c)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met, or refuse to issue the same in
the event of noncompliance.
   (d)   Inspect buildings and lands to determine whether any violations of
these regulations have been committed.
   (e)   Make and permanently keep all records for public inspection necessary
for the administration of these regulations including flood insurance rate
maps, letters of map amendment and revision, records of issuance and denial of
permits to develop in special flood hazard areas, determinations of whether
development is in or out of special flood hazard areas for the purpose of
issuing floodplain development permits, elevation certificates, variances, and
records of enforcement actions taken for violations of these regulations.
   (f)   Enforce the provisions of these regulations.
   (g)   Provide information, testimony, or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings.
   (h)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and FEMA follow-up.
   (i)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, must meet the development standards of these regulations.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.14 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to begin construction or other
development activity including but not limited to filling; grading;
construction; alteration, remodeling, or expanding any structure; or alteration
of any watercourse wholly within, partially within or in contact with any
identified special flood hazard area, as established in §
1169.06, until a floodplain development permit is obtained from the Floodplain
Administrator. Such floodplain development permit shall show that the proposed
development activity is in conformity with the provisions of these regulations.
No such permit shall be issued by the Floodplain Administrator until the
requirements of these regulations have been met.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.15 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   An application for a floodplain development permit shall be required for all
development activities located wholly within, partially within, or in contact
with an identified special flood hazard area. Such application shall be made by
the owner of the property or his or her authorized agent, herein referred to as
the applicant, prior to the actual commencement of such construction on a form
furnished for that purpose. Where it is unclear whether a development site is
in a special flood hazard area, the Floodplain Administrator may require an
application for a floodplain development permit to determine the development's
location. Such applications shall include, but not be limited to:
   (a)   Site plans drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions,
and topography of the area in question; the location of existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing.
   (b)   Elevation of the existing, natural ground where structures are
proposed.
   (c)   Elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, of all proposed
structures.
   (d)   Such other material and information as may be requested by the
Floodplain Administrator to determine conformance with, and provide enforcement
of these regulations.
   (e)   Technical analyses conducted by the appropriate design professional
registered in the State of Ohio and submitted with an application for a
floodplain development permit when applicable:
      (1)   Floodproofing certification for non-residential floodproofed
structure as required in §
1169.29.
      (2)   Certification that fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor of a
structure not meeting the design requirements of §
1169.28(e) are designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces.
      (3)   Description of any watercourse alteration or relocation that the
flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be diminished, and
maintenance assurances as required in §
1169.33 (c).
      (4)   A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis demonstrating that the
cumulative effect of proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot in special flood hazard areas
where the Federal Emergency Management Agency has provided base flood
elevations but no flood way as required by §
1169.33(b).
      (5)   A hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis showing impact of
any development on flood heights in an identified floodway as required by §
1169.33(a).
      (6)   Generation of base flood elevation(s) for subdivision and large-
scale developments as required by §
1169.27.
   (f)    A floodplain development permit application fee set by the schedule
of fees adopted by the City of Mason.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.16 REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF A FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (a)   Review.
      (1)   After receipt of a complete application, the Floodplain
Administrator shall review the application to ensure that the standards of
these regulations have been met. No floodplain development permit application
shall be reviewed until all information required in §
1169.15 has been received by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review all floodplain
development permit applications to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those federal, state or local governmental agencies from which
prior approval is required. The applicant shall be responsible for obtaining
such permits as required including permits issued by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers under Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act and Section 404 of the
Clean Water Act, and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency under Section 401
of the Clean Water Act.
   (b)   Approval. Within 30 days after the receipt of a complete application,
the Floodplain Administrator shall either approve or disapprove the
application. If an application is approved, a floodplain development permit
shall be issued. All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon
the commencement of work within one year. A floodplain development permit shall
expire one year after issuance unless the permitted activity has been
substantially begun and is thereafter pursued to completion.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.17 INSPECTIONS.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall make periodic inspections at appropriate
times throughout the period of construction in order to monitor compliance with
permit conditions.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.18 POST-CONSTRUCTION CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   The following as-built certifications are required after a floodplain
development permit has been issued:
   (a)   For new or substantially improved residential structures, or
nonresidential structures that have been elevated, the applicant shall have a
Federal Emergency Management Agency Elevation Certificate completed by a
registered surveyor to record as-built elevation data. For elevated structures
in Zone A and Zone AO areas without a base flood elevation, the elevation
certificate may be completed by the property owner or owner’s representative.
   (b)   For all development activities subject to the standards of §
1169.21(a), a letter of map revision.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.19 REVOKING A FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be revocable, if among other things,
the actual development activity does not conform to the terms of the
application and permit granted thereon. In the event of the revocation of a
permit, an appeal may be taken to the Appeals Board in accordance with §§
1169.34 through
1169.39, Appeals and Variances.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.20 EXEMPTION FROM FILING A DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (a)   An application for a floodplain development permit shall not be
required for:
      (1)   Maintenance work such as roofing, painting, and basement sealing,
or for small nonstructural development activities (except for filling and
grading) valued at less than $5,000.
      (2)   Development activities in an existing or proposed manufactured home
park that are under the authority of the Ohio Department of Health and subject
to the flood damage reduction provisions of the Ohio Administrative Code
Section 3701.
      (3)   Major utility facilities permitted by the Ohio Power Siting Board
under Section 4906 of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (4)   Hazardous waste disposal facilities permitted by the Hazardous
Waste Siting Board under R.C. § 3734.
      (5)   Development activities undertaken by a federal agency and which are
subject to Federal Executive Order 11988 - Floodplain Management.
   (b)   Any proposed action exempt from filing for a floodplain development
permit is also exempt from the standards of these regulations.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.21 MAP MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   To meet National Flood Insurance Program minimum requirements to have flood
data reviewed and approved by FEMA, and to ensure that City of Mason flood
maps, studies and other data identified in §
1169.06 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data, the following map maintenance
activities are identified:
   (a)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date such
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
         A.   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
         B.   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
         C.   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and
         D.   Subdivision or large scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations in accordance with §
1169.27.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical data,
required in accordance with §
1169.21(a), prepared in a format required for a conditional letter of map
revision or letter of map revision, and submitted to FEMA. Submittal and
processing fees for these map revisions shall be the responsibility of the
applicant.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a conditional letter of
map revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for:
         A.   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood
elevation; and
         B.   Proposed development which increases the base flood elevation by
more than one foot in areas where FEMA has provided base flood elevations but
no floodway.
      (4)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a letter of map
revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to §
1169.21(a)(1).
   (b)   Right to Submit New Technical Data. The Floodplain Administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such
as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include appropriate
supporting documentation made in writing by the Mayor of City of Mason, and may
be submitted at any time.
   (c)   Annexation/detachment. Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of the City of Mason have
been modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority over an
area, or no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management
regulations for a particular area. In order that the City of Mason flood
insurance rate map accurately represent the City of Mason boundaries, include
within such notification a copy of a map of the City of Mason suitable for
reproduction, clearly showing the new corporate limits or the new area for
which the City of Mason has assumed or relinquished floodplain management
regulatory authority.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.22 DATA USE AND FLOOD MAP INTERPRETATION.
   The following guidelines shall apply to the use and interpretation of maps
and other data showing areas of special flood hazard:
   (a)   In areas where FEMA has not identified special flood hazard areas, or
in FEMA identified special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation and
floodway data have not been identified, the Floodplain Administrator shall
review and reasonably utilize any other flood hazard data available from a
federal, state, or other source.
   (b)   Base flood elevations and floodway boundaries produced on FEMA flood
maps and studies shall take precedence over base flood elevations and floodway
boundaries by any other source that reflect a reduced floodway width and/or
lower base flood elevations. Other sources of data, showing increased base
flood elevations and/or larger floodway areas than are shown on FEMA flood maps
and studies, shall be reasonably used by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (c)   When preliminary flood insurance rate maps and/or flood insurance
study have been provided by FEMA:
      (1)   Upon the issuance of a Letter of Final Determination by the FEMA,
the preliminary flood hazard data shall be used and replace all previously
existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA for the purposes of administering
these regulations.
      (2)   Prior to the issuance of a letter of final determination by FEMA,
the use of preliminary flood hazard data shall only be required where no base
flood elevations and/or floodway areas exist or where the preliminary base
flood elevations or floodway area exceed the base flood elevations and/or
floodway widths in existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA. Such
preliminary data may be subject to change and/or appeal to FEMA.
   (d)   The Floodplain Administrator shall make interpretations, where needed,
as to the exact location of the flood boundaries and areas of special flood
hazard. A person contesting the determination of the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in §§
1169.34 through
1169.39, Appeals and Variances.
   (e)   Where a map boundary showing an area of special flood hazard and field
elevations disagree, the base flood elevations or flood protection elevations
(as found on an elevation profile, floodway data table, established high water
marks, etc.) shall prevail.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.23 SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE DETERMINATIONS.
   (a)   Damages to structures may result from a variety of causes including
flood, tornado, wind, heavy snow, fire, etc. After such a damage event, the
Floodplain Administrator shall:
      (1)   Determine whether damaged structures are located in special flood
hazard areas;
      (2)   Conduct substantial damage determinations for damaged structures
located in special flood hazard areas; and
      (3)   Make reasonable attempt to notify owners of substantially damaged
structures of the need to obtain a floodplain development permit prior to
repair, rehabilitation, or reconstruction.
   (b)   Additionally, the Floodplain Administrator may implement other
measures to assist with the substantial damage determination and subsequent
repair process. These measures include issuing press releases, public service
announcements, and other public information materials related to the floodplain
development permits and repair of damaged structures; coordinating with other
federal, state, and local agencies to assist with substantial damage
determinations; providing owners of damaged structures materials and other
information related to the proper repair of damaged structures in special flood
hazard areas; and assist owners of substantially damaged structures with
increased cost of compliance insurance claims.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.24 USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   The following use and development standards apply to development wholly
within, partially within, or in contact with any special flood hazard area as
established in §
1169.06 or §
1169.22(a).
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.25 USE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Permitted uses. All uses not otherwise prohibited in this section or
any other applicable land use regulation adopted by City of Mason are allowed
provided they meet the provisions of these regulations.
   (b)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Private water supply systems in all special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, permitted under R.C. § 3701.
      (2)   Infectious waste treatment facilities in all special flood hazard
areas, permitted under R.C. § 3734.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.26 WATER AND WASTEWATER SYSTEMS.
   The following standards apply to all water supply, sanitary sewerage and
waste disposal systems not otherwise regulated by the Ohio Revised Code:
   (a)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems;
   (b)   New and replacement sanitary sewerage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
   (c)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.27 SUBDIVISIONS AND LARGE DEVELOPMENTS.
   (a)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage and are subject to all applicable standards in these
regulations.
   (b)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (c)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
   (d)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments containing at least 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less.
   (e)   The applicant shall meet the requirement to submit technical data to
FEMA in §
1169.21(a)(1)(D) when a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis is completed that
generates base flood elevations as required by §
1169.27(d).
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.28 RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (a)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
Where a structure, including its foundation members, is elevated on fill to or
above the base flood elevation, the requirements for anchoring (§
1169.28(a)) and construction materials resistant to flood damage (§
1169.28(b)) are satisfied.
   (b)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with methods and materials resistant to flood damage.
   (c)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or elevated so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (d)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure, including manufactured homes, shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above the flood protection elevation. Where flood
protection elevation data are not available, the structure shall have the
lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least two feet above the highest
adjacent natural grade.
   (e)   New construction and substantial improvements, including manufactured
homes, that do not have basements and that are elevated to the flood protection
elevation using pilings, columns, posts, or solid foundation perimeter walls
with openings sufficient to allow unimpeded movement of flood waters may have
an enclosure below the lowest floor provided the enclosure meets the following
standards:
      (1)   Be used only for the parking of vehicles, building access, or
storage; and
      (2)   Be designed and certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters; or
      (3)   Have a minimum of two openings on different walls having a total
net area not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area,
and the bottom of all such openings being no higher than one foot above grade.
The openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other coverings or
devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
   (f)   Manufactured homes shall be affixed to a permanent foundation and
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
   (g)   Repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s
continued designation as a historic structure and is the minimum necessary to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure, shall be exempt
from the development standards of this §
1169.28.
   (h)   In AO Zones, new construction and substantial improvement shall have
adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around
and away from the structure.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.29 NONRESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (a)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall meet the requirements of §
1169.28(a) through (c) and (e) through (h).
   (b)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other non-residential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to or above the level of the flood
protection elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall meet all of the following standards:
      (1)   Be dry floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water to the level of the flood
protection elevation;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
      (3)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect,
through the use of a Federal Emergency Management Agency floodproofing
certificate, that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
§
1169.29(b)(1) and (2).
   (c)   Where flood protection elevation data are not available, the structure
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least two feet
above the highest adjacent natural grade.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.30 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing standards may be granted for
accessory structures containing no more than 600 square feet. Such structures
must meet the following standards:
   (a)   They shall not be used for human habitation;
   (b)   They shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
   (c)   They shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
   (d)   They shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
   (e)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall be
elevated or floodproofed to or above the level of the flood protection
elevation; and
   (f)   They shall meet the opening requirements of §
1169.28(e)(3).
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.31 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles must meet at least one of the following standards:
   (a)   They shall not be located on sites in special flood hazard areas for
more than 180 days, or
   (b)   They must be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
   (c)   They must meet all standards of §
1169.28.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.32 ABOVE GROUND GAS OR LIQUID STORAGE TANKS.
   All above ground gas or liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent
flotation or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.33 ASSURANCE OF FLOOD CARRYING CAPACITY.
   Pursuant to the purpose and methods of reducing flood damage stated in these
regulations, the following additional standards are adopted to assure that the
reduction of the flood carrying capacity of watercourses is minimized:
   (a)   Development in floodways.
      (1)    In floodway areas, development shall cause no increase in flood
levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. Prior to issuance of
a floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer,
demonstrating that the proposed development would not result in any increase in
the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   Development in floodway areas causing increases in the base flood
elevation may be permitted provided all of the following are completed by the
applicant:
         A.   Meet the requirements to submit technical data in §
1169.21(a);
         B.   An evaluation of alternatives, which would not result in
increased base flood elevations and an explanation why these alternatives are
not feasible;
         C.   Certification that no structures are located in areas that would
be impacted by the increased base flood elevation;
         D.   Documentation of individual legal notices to all impacted
property owners within and outside the community, explaining the impact of the
proposed action on their property; and
         E.   Concurrence of the Mayor of City of Mason and the Chief Executive
Officer of any other communities impacted by the proposed actions.
   (b)   Development in riverine areas with base flood elevations but no
floodways.
      (1)   In riverine special flood hazard areas identified by FEMA where
base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been designated,
the cumulative effect of any proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the base flood
elevation more than 1.0 (one) foot at any point. Prior to issuance of a
floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer,
demonstrating that this standard has been met; or
      (2)   Development in riverine special flood hazard areas identified by
FEMA where base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been
designated causing more than one foot increase in the base flood elevation may
be permitted provided all of the following are completed by the applicant:
         A.   An evaluation of alternatives which would result in an increase
of one foot or less of the base flood elevation and an explanation why these
alternatives are not feasible;
         B.   Section
1169.33(a)(2), items A. and C. through E.
   (c)   Alterations of a watercourse. For the purpose of these regulations, a
watercourse is altered when any change occurs within its banks. The extent of
the banks shall be established by a field determination of the “bankfull
stage.” The field determination of “bankfull stage” shall be based on methods
presented in Chapter 7 of the USDA Forest Service General Technical Report RM-
245, Stream Channel Reference Sites: An Illustrated Guide to Field Technique or
other applicable publication available from a federal, state, or other
authoritative source. For all proposed developments that alter a watercourse,
the following standards apply:
      (1)   The bankfull flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse shall not be diminished. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a description of the
extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development, and certification by a registered professional engineer
that the bankfull flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be
diminished.
      (2)   Adjacent communities, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the
Ohio Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water, must be notified prior
to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse. Evidence of such notification
must be submitted to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      (3)   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the necessary
maintenance for the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that
the flood carrying capacity will not be diminished. The Floodplain
Administrator may require the permit holder to enter into an agreement with
City of Mason specifying the maintenance responsibilities. If an agreement is
required, it shall be made a condition of the floodplain development permit.
      (4)   The applicant shall meet the requirements to submit technical data
in §
1169.21(a)(1)(C) when an alteration of a watercourse results in the relocation
or elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.34 APPEALS BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   (a)   The City of Mason Zoning Board of Appeals is hereby appointed to serve
as the Appeals Board for these regulations as established by City Code.
   (b)   Records of the Appeals Board shall be kept and filed in Government
Center at 6000 Mason-Montgomery Road, Mason, Ohio.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.35 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (a)   The Appeals Board shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by
the Floodplain Administrator in the administration or enforcement of these
regulations.
   (b)   Authorize variances in accordance with §
1169.37 of these regulations.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.36 APPEALS.
   (a)   Any person affected by any notice and order, or other official action
of the Floodplain Administrator may request and shall be granted a hearing on
the matter before the Appeals Board provided that such person shall file,
within 14 days of the date of such notice and order, or other official action,
a brief statement of the grounds for such hearing or for the mitigation of any
item appearing on any order of the Floodplain Administrator's decision. Such
appeal shall be in writing, signed by the applicant, and be filed with the
Floodplain Administrator. Upon receipt of the appeal, the Floodplain
Administrator shall transmit said notice and all pertinent information on which
the Floodplain Administrator’s decision was made to the Appeals Board.
   (b)   Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the Appeals Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the appeal, give notice in writing to parties in interest,
and decide the appeal within a reasonable time after it is submitted.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.37 VARIANCES.
   Any person believing that the use and development standards of these
regulations would result in unnecessary hardship may file an application for a
variance. The Appeals Board shall have the power to authorize, in specific
cases, such variances from the standards of these regulations, not inconsistent
with federal regulations, as will not be contrary to the public interest where,
owning to special conditions of the lot or parcel, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of these regulations would result in unnecessary hardship.
   (a)   Application for a variance.
      (1)   Any owner, or agent thereof, of property for which a variance is
sought shall make an application for a variance by filing it with the
Floodplain Administrator, who upon receipt of the variance shall transmit it to
the Appeals Board.
      (2)   Such application at a minimum shall contain the following
information: Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant; legal
description of the property; parcel map; description of the existing use;
description of the proposed use; location of the floodplain; description of the
variance sought; and reason for the variance request.
      (3)   All applications for a variance shall be accompanied by a variance
application fee set in the schedule of fees adopted by the City of Mason.
   (b)   Public hearing. At such hearing the applicant shall present such
statements and evidence as the Appeals Board requires. In considering such
variance applications, the Appeals Board shall consider and make findings of
fact on all evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other
sections of these regulations and the following factors:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others.
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community.
      (5)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use that
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage.
      (6)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable.
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development.
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area.
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site.
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (c)   (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         A.   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
         B.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship due to the physical characteristics of the property.
Increased cost or inconvenience of meeting the requirements of these
regulations does not constitute an exceptional hardship to the applicant.
         C.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights beyond that which is allowed in these regulations;
additional threats to public safety; extraordinary public expense, nuisances,
fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws.
         D.   A determination that the structure or other development is
protected by methods to minimize flood damages.
         E.   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
      (2)   Upon consideration of the above factors and the purposes of these
regulations, the Appeals Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances, as it deems necessary to further the purposes of these regulations.
   (d)   Other conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing items in §
1169.37(b)(1) through (11) have been fully considered. As the lot size
increases beyond one-half acre, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and the cost of flood insurance will
be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor
elevation.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.38 PROCEDURE AT HEARINGS.
   (a)   All testimony shall be given under oath.
   (b)   A complete record of the proceedings shall be kept, except
confidential deliberations of the Board, but including all documents presented
and a verbatim record of the testimony of all witnesses.
   (c)   The applicant shall proceed first to present evidence and testimony in
support of the appeal or variance.
   (d)   The administrator may present evidence or testimony in opposition to
the appeal or variance.
   (e)   All witnesses shall be subject to cross-examination by the adverse
party or their counsel.
   (f)   Evidence that is not admitted may be proffered and shall become part
of the record for appeal.
   (g)   The Board shall issue subpoenas upon written request for the
attendance of witnesses. A reasonable deposit to cover the cost of issuance and
service shall be collected in advance.
   (h)   The Board shall prepare conclusions of fact supporting its decision.
The decision may be announced at the conclusion of the hearing and thereafter
issued in writing or the decision may be issued in writing within a reasonable
time after the hearing.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.39 APPEAL TO THE COURT.
   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Appeals Board may appeal such
decision to the Warren County Court of Common Pleas, as provided in R.C.
Chapter 2506.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.40 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (a)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, repaired, extended, converted, enlarged or altered without full
compliance with the terms of these regulations and all other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of these regulations,
unless specifically exempted from filing for a development permit as stated in
§
1169.20.
   (b)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit shall be a violation
of these regulations and shall be punishable in accordance with §
1169.99.
   (c)   Floodplain development permits issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the Floodplain Administrator authorize only the use,
and arrangement, set forth in such approved plans and applications or
amendments thereto. Use, arrangement, or construction contrary to that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of these regulations and punishable in
accordance with §
1169.99.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.41 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the Floodplain Administrator determines that there has been a
violation of any provision of these regulations, he shall give notice of such
violation to the person responsible therefore and order compliance with these
regulations as hereinafter provided. Such notice and order shall:
   (a)   Be put in writing on an appropriate form;
   (b)   Include a list of violations, referring to the section or sections of
these regulations that have been violated, and order remedial action, which, if
taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of these regulations;
   (c)   Specify a reasonable time for performance;
   (d)   Advise the owner, operator, or occupant of the right to appeal;
   (e)   Be served on the owner, occupant, or agent in person. However, this
notice and order shall be deemed to be properly served upon the owner,
occupant, or agent if a copy thereof is sent by registered or certified mail to
the person’s last known mailing address, residence, or place of business, and/
or a copy is posted in a conspicuous place in or on the dwelling affected.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 1169.99 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Violation of the provisions of these regulations or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall be deemed to be a strict liability offense, and
shall constitute a second degree misdemeanor. Any person who violates these
regulations or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon
conviction thereof be fined or imprisoned as provided by the laws of the City
of Mason. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City of Mason from taking
such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
The City of Mason shall prosecute any violation of these regulations in
accordance with the penalties stated herein.
(Ord. 2010-110, passed 11-1-2010)
CHAPTER 1170: DOWNTOWN OVERLAY DISTRICT
Section
   
1170.01   Purpose
   
1170.02   Creation and boundaries
   
1170.03   Effect of DO Downtown Overlay designation
   
1170.04   Permitted uses
   
1170.05   Prohibited uses
   
1170.06   Development standards
   
1170.07   Zoning certificate required
   
1170.08   Zoning certificate review guidelines and standards
   
1170.09   Zoning certificate review procedures
   
1170.10   Revocation
   
1170.11   Site maintenance after approval
   
1170.12   Appeals
   
1170.13   Penalties
   
1170.14   Severability
   
1170.15   Minimum maintenance requirement
   
1170.16   Exclusions
   
1170.17 – 1170.20   Reserved for future use
   
1170.21   Design Review Board fee
   Cross-reference:
   District established, see
Ch. 1145
   Noise, see
Ch. 511
   Nuisances generally, see
Ch. 521
   Signs, see
Ch. 1187
§ 1170.01 PURPOSE.
   (a)   To establish procedures whereby the historical and architecturally
significant assets located within the Downtown Overlay District are afforded
protection from actions that would be detrimental to preserving irreplaceable
cultural and community resources;
   (b)   To follow the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for the
Rehabilitation of Historic Buildings;
   (c)   To enhance property values, protect property rights, stabilize and
improve downtown and adjacent neighborhoods, and increase economic and
financial benefits to city businesses and inhabitants;
   (d)   To create a vibrant community focal point through innovative and
creative site design and architecture that continuously evolves over time;
   (e)   To encourage new development at appropriate locations in a manner
consistent with desired architectural and urban design guidelines;
   (f)   To encourage higher density mixed use development with an above-grade
residential and office component, pedestrian friendly site design, and an urban
“Main Street” character;
   (g)   To promote developments where the physical, visual and spatial
characteristics are established and reinforced through the consistent use of
compatible urban design and architectural design elements; and
   (h)   To prohibit or restrict uses that are disruptive to pedestrian
activities and have as their principal function the sale and services of motor
vehicles, such as automobile service stations, auto parts retail stores, car
washes, new and used motor vehicle sales or service establishments, drive-in
restaurants and restaurants with drive-through facilities, business with drive-
through facilities (such as, but not limited to, banks, credit unions,
pharmacies and the like).
(Ord. 2005-136, passed 11-28-2005)
§ 1170.02 CREATION AND BOUNDARIES.
   This chapter of the Zoning Code is created as an overlay district to be
applied within and adjacent to the B-1 Central Business District as the City
Council designates by ordinance. The boundaries of the district are depicted on
the Official Zoning Map. The Downtown Overlay District is described as:
   (a)   The parcels fronting Main Street from Mason Road to Kings Mills Road;
   (b)   The parcels fronting Reading Road/US 42 from 4th Avenue to Main
Street; and
   (c)   Other parcels as depicted on the Official Zoning Map as amended.
(Ord. 2005-136, passed 11-28-2005; Ord. 2006-75, passed 7-24-2006; Ord. 2014-3,
passed 2-10-2014)
§ 1170.03 EFFECT OF DO DOWNTOWN OVERLAY DESIGNATION.
   The Downtown Overlay District regulations apply in combination with
underlying base zoning district regulations and all other applicable standards
of this Zoning Code. When Downtown Overlay District standards conflict with the
underlying base zoning district regulations and other standards of this Zoning
Code, the regulations of the Downtown Overlay District will apply. In this
case, the underlying zoning districts are the B-1 Central Business District, R-
4 Single-Family Residential District and B-3 Road Service District.
(Ord. 2005-136, passed 11-28-2005)
§ 1170.04 PERMITTED USES.
   (a)   Within the Downtown Overlay District, no building shall be erected,
used or structurally altered, nor shall the land or premises be used in whole
or in part, except for uses permitted in the underlying zoning district except
as otherwise permitted and prohibited in the following additional provisions.
   (b)   The uses permitted in Chapter 1155, B-1 Central Business District, §§
1155.02 and
1155.03, and the other uses permitted in this section are principally permitted
uses in the Downtown Overlay District subject to the requirements of the
Downtown Mason Guideline Handbook.
      (1)   Public parks, greens, squares and plazas;
      (2)   Outdoor seating operated and maintained by a restaurant, café or
coffee shop;
      (3)   Public parking lots;
      (4)   Financial institutions and drug stores, cafes and coffee shops and
other similar consumer service uses with drive through facilities as approved
by Planning Commission;
      (5)   Single-family residential. The use shall comply with the minimum
livable floor area requirements established for an R-4 Single-Family
Residential District in
Chapter 1147; and
      (6)   Ballet, dance and fine arts studios.
(Ord. 2005-136, passed 11-28-2005; Ord. 2014-3, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 1170.05 PROHIBITED USES.
   Auto oriented and more intensive commercial uses and associated ancillary
uses are prohibited including:
   (a)   Vehicle sales, rental and services;
   (b)   Equipment sales, rental and services;
   (c)   Auto repair, body shops, automobile accessories;
   (d)   Automobile washing facilities;
   (e)   Automobile service stations;
   (f)   Vehicle storage; and
   (g)   Other similar uses as determined by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2005-136, passed 11-28-2005)
§ 1170.06 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   Except as otherwise noted, buildings and uses in the Downtown Overlay
District shall comply with the architectural and site development guidelines
and additional review procedures established in the Downtown Mason Design
Guideline Handbook, as adopted and amended by City Council. The Downtown Mason
Design Guideline Handbook is hereby adopted by reference, in its entirety, as
if its entire text and substance were a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-136, passed 11-28-2005)
§ 1170.07 ZONING CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   (a)   Alterations and new construction shall conform to procedural
requirements of
Chapter 1135 of the Zoning Ordinance.
   (b)   Repairs, informal approval. In order to expedite and encourage timely
maintenance, repair work, and minor construction in the Downtown Overlay
District, the Planning Commission (Commission) authorizes city staff (staff) to
review and approve certain repair, maintenance work and minor construction
activities. Staff may solicit comments and recommendations from qualified
individuals in order to make a determination if the proposed project is
appropriate for the property. Staff may forward the application to the
Commission for zoning certificate approval when a determination regarding the
proposed modification cannot be made. Staff may approve:
      (1)   Replacement of missing bricks, repointing with same color and type
of mortar and reconstruction with brick matching in color, size, and shape.
      (2)   Replacement of clapboards, siding, moldings, fascia boards,
gutters, railing units, shutters, awnings, canopies, shingles and other
exterior surfaces when there in no change in design, materials, or general
appearance.
      (3)   Cleaning and repointing of the foundation and repair when like
materials and colors is used. The same mortar mixture should be used to allow
similar expansion and contraction of the foundation.
      (4)   Installation of window air conditioners when they are not facing
the street and if there is no change in window structure and installation of
ground and roof mounted air conditioner units that are properly screened and
inconspicuously located (tubing and connections must not be readily visible).
      (5)   Replacement of existing storm windows with a similar product. A
change from wooden to metal or vinyl storm windows is required to be reviewed
by the Commission.
      (6)   Replacement of windows when they are of like material, in size,
shape, and appearance.
      (7)   The replacement of roofing materials that are similar or better
than what was previously on the structure. In the case where slate, tile or
cedar shakes are proposed to be replaced with a different material, Commission
approval is required.
      (8)   Signage installation and replacement.
      (9)   Accessory structures not attached to the main building.
      (10)   Decks, porches, and patios not located on the front of the main
building.
      (11)   Pavement and parking lots.
      (12)   Landscaping.
      (13)   Accessible ramps not located in front of the main building.
      (14)   Ornamental fencing for the purpose of enclosing outdoor eating or
sitting areas subject to the fencing being a maximum of four feet in height,
constructed out of metal with a black finish, and designed with at least 70%
transparency.
   (c)   Demolition. No demolition, in part or in whole, of any structure
located in the Downtown Overlay District shall be undertaken prior to obtaining
a zoning certificate from the Commission. The demolition of buildings
identified as background or non-historic buildings will be evaluated within the
context of the greater downtown. While background and non-historic buildings
may not be historically or architecturally significant, their removal should be
considered in the context of the proposed replacement or redevelopment of the
site and the impact the loss of the existing structure will have on the
Downtown Overlay District. The Commission will review demolition requests for
landmark and contributing structures with additional scrutiny.
      (1)   Redevelopment site plan approval required. A redevelopment site
plan for demolition and redevelopment of the site must be submitted as part of
a zoning certificate application. The redevelopment site plan must meet the
data requirements of §
1135.05. In addition to the requirements of §
1135.05, the applicant shall provide evidence of financing and a commitment to
build new which mitigates any adverse effect of the proposed removal upon the
property, streetscape and the district through one or more of the following:
         A.   New construction that complies with all regulations of the
Downtown Overlay District and is consistent with guidance contained in the
Downtown Mason Design Guidelines Handbook.
         B.   Exterior rehabilitation or restoration of the remaining structure
that is consistent with the Downtown Mason Overlay District and guidance
contained in the Downtown Mason Design Guidelines Handbook.
         C.   Landscaping the entire parcel consistent with the Downtown Mason
Design Guidelines Handbook and City Landscape and Street Tree Ordinance. This
regulation shall apply only when the building is declared a public nuisance.
      (2)   Additional requirements for landmark and contributing buildings. It
is the intent of this regulation to preserve, retain and rehabilitate landmark
and contributing buildings located in the Downtown Overlay District. The
Commission may approve demolition request for landmark and contributing
structures only after the applicant has provided compelling evidence that the
standards authorizing demolition have been met. Thus, an application for a
zoning certificate for demolition of a landmark and contributing building, or
any portion thereof, must meet one condition of division (c)(2)A., B., or C.
below and the conditions of division (c)(2)D. below.
         A.   Evaluation of significance. The applicant presents clear evidence
showing that the building in question is not locally significant and that its
removal will not adversely affect the architectural or historic integrity of
the streetscape or community.
          B.   Evaluation of condition. The applicant presents clear evidence
that the structure has incurred extensive damage to its basic structural
elements, such as the roof, walls and foundation, requiring substantial
reconstruction. The applicant shall provide photographs showing such condition,
as well as a written evaluation of condition provided by a competent architect,
structural engineer, or other building professional.
         C.   Evaluation of rehabilitation costs. The applicant presents clear
evidence that the square foot cost of meeting the minimum building code would
exceed the square foot market value of similarly used and improved structures
in the district.
         D.   Evaluation of alternatives to demolition. Alternatives to
demolition must be given serious consideration by the applicant. The applicant
must present all demolition alternatives that were analyzed and demonstrate to
the Commission’s satisfaction that no feasible alternative to demolition exist.
As such, the applicant shall investigate alternatives to demolition and prepare
a feasibility analysis for each demolition alternative for the Commission’s
consideration. At minimum, the applicant shall consider the following
alternatives:
            1.   Offering the building for sale at a fair market price to a
buyer who could make use of the structure;
            2.   Moving the historic building to another appropriate location
on the lot, elsewhere downtown, or elsewhere in the city;
            3.    Rehabilitating and occupying only part of the building while
“mothballing” the remainder for remodeling at a later time;
            4.   Preserving a portion of the structure; or
            5.   Seeking grants or tax credits to help finance the
rehabilitation and reuse of the building.
      (3)   Security required. The applicant shall post a performance bond with
security sufficient to insure completion of the:
         A.   Demolition including the removal of all subgrade improvements;
         B.   Site grading, stabilization and landscaping; and
         C.   The redevelopment site plan as approved by the Commission.
      (4)   Timing of demolition. A building permit shall not be issued by the
Engineering and Building Department for the demolition of any structure or any
part thereof within a designated Downtown Overlay District until such time the
applicant receives a zoning certificate and redevelopment plan approval from
the Commission, and the required security is posted.
      (5)   Denial of a zoning certificate for demolition. The Commission and
applicant shall undertake meaningful and continuing discussion during the
waiting period prescribed in §
1170.09(b) in order to find a means of preserving the property. The Commission
and applicant shall investigate the feasibility of all means of preserving the
listed property. If the Commission and applicant do not agree on a means of
preserving the structure at the initial meeting, then they must continue to
meet for the purpose of finding a method of saving the structure, and such good
faith meetings shall be held at least every 45 days after the initial meeting.
If the applicant fails to meet with the Commission in good faith, at the time
specified, then the Commission’s denial of the application will stand. If,
after holding such good faith meeting in the waiting period specified by the
Commission, the Commission determines that failure to issue a zoning
certificate will create a substantial hardship to the applicant and that such
certificate may be issued without substantial detriment to the public welfare
and without substantial deviation from the purposes of this chapter, then and
in such event, staff shall issue a zoning certificate for such request.
   (d)   Formal site plan review required. Any drive through facility or new
construction, not meeting the requirements in division (b) above, shall require
formal site plan approval by the Commission subject to the requirements of §
1135.05.
   (e)   Informal site plan review required. Any project that does not meet the
requirements listed in division (b) above shall require informal site plan
review by the City Planner or his agent in accordance with the informal review
and approval procedures of §
1135.04.
(Ord. 2005-136, passed 11-28-2005; Ord. 2014-3, passed 2-10-2014; Ord. 2015-89,
passed 9-28-2015)
§ 1170.08 ZONING CERTIFICATE REVIEW GUIDELINES AND STANDARDS.
   These guidelines and standards are in addition to those listed in
Chapter 1135 of the Zoning Ordinance.
   (a)   In its consideration of whether a proposed alteration or new
construction is deserving of a zoning certificate (ZC), the Commission shall
consider the guidelines set forth in the Downtown Mason Design Guidelines
Handbook.
   (b)   In its considerations of whether a proposed alteration is deserving of
a ZC, the Commission may consider the cost of modifications, where costs for a
particular action or inaction may be unreasonable given existing conditions of
a structure, site or area.
   (c)   The Commission shall encourage repairs and alterations to landmark and
contributing structures, not including demolition, that are compatible with
their existing architectural form, design and materials. Additions to landmark
and contributing buildings shall be contemporary but compatible in form, style
and materials with the original structure. This work shall be guided by the
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation, per this chapter.
   (d)   The Commission shall be flexible in its review of plans for
alteration, repair or demolition of background and non-historic buildings, as
well as other sites and areas of little historic or cultural value, except
where the repair, alteration or demolition would seriously impair the historic
value and character of surrounding landmark and contributing structures or of
the surrounding downtown area.
   (e)   Alteration, additions or new construction shall not be limited to any
one period or architectural style. Historic periods represented by landmark and
contributing buildings in the downtown area will be respected, and new work
shall be harmonious and compatible with existing character of the downtown.
   (f)   The requirements in this chapter and the Downtown Mason Design
Guideline Handbook are minimum requirements, and under no circumstance shall
they preclude an applicant and the Commission from agreeing to more extensive
requirements.
   (g)   The Commission may modify building design guidelines of the Downtown
Mason Design Guideline Handbook when a proposed addition, new construction, or
project does not meet the minimum standards but is deemed to be a quality
project by the majority of Commission members.
   (h)   The Commission may request experts to aid in its deliberations subject
to financial availability as approved by City Council.
(Ord. 2005-136, passed 11-28-2005; Ord. 2014-3, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 1170.09 ZONING CERTIFICATE REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   The review of a zoning certificate shall follow the procedures as set forth
in
Chapter 1135 of the Zoning Ordinance unless modified by this chapter.
   (a)   Upon denying a zoning certificate, the Commission may impose a waiting
period of at least 30 days, but not to exceed six months from the date of
disapproval, during which time the Commission shall negotiate with the owner of
the property in order to develop a compromise proposal acceptable to both. The
first meeting between the Commission and applicant shall be held within 60 days
from the date of disapproval. If a compromise proposal is accepted by both
parties, the Commission may henceforth issue a zoning certificate.
(Ord. 2005-136, passed 11-28-2005; Ord. 2014-3, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 1170.10 REVOCATION.
   Approval of a ZC relating to the Downtown Overlay District may be revoked by
the Commission if new construction or alterations are not in conformance with
the approved plans. In such a case, staff shall place the ZC on the agenda of
the Commission for consideration, and give written notice mailed by regular or
electronic mail to the applicant at least ten days prior to the meeting. The
applicant shall be given the opportunity to present information to the
Commission and answer questions. The Commission may revoke the approval of the
ZC if it finds that a violation exists and has not been remedied prior to the
meeting. No work requiring ZC approval may commence or continue after a ZC
revocation is instituted by the Commission. The applicant shall thereafter
reapply for a ZC approval before work may recommence.
(Ord. 2005-136, passed 11-28-2005; Ord. 2014-3, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 1170.11 SITE MAINTENANCE AFTER APPROVAL.
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of a property for which ZC
approval has been granted to maintain the property in accordance with the
approved ZC application and building design. Any property owner, who fails to
maintain an approved ZC in full compliance with approvals granted by the
Commission according to the provisions of these regulations, shall be deemed in
violation of the use provisions of these regulations and shall be subject to
the penalties stated in this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-136, passed 11-28-2005; Ord. 2014-3, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 1170.12 APPEALS.
   The applicant, upon receipt of a letter of disapproval, shall have the right
of appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals afforded by the City Charter. Where
such appeal is available only the determination of the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall constitute a final order, adjudication or decision by the city.
(Ord. 2005-136, passed 11-28-2005; Ord. 2014-3, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 1170.13 PENALTIES.
   Whoever authorizes the construction, reconstruction, alteration or
demolition of any exterior feature of any structure, work of art, object or
area in violation of this regulation, or whoever maintains, changes or installs
a sign in violation of this regulation, shall be deemed in violation of the
municipal code and the violation shall be punishable under §
1135.99. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate and distinct
violation for as long as one year with respect to alterations and for as long
as two years with respect to demolition.
(Ord. 2005-136, passed 11-28-2005; Ord. 2014-3, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 1170.14 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof is held invalid,
the invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this
chapter which can be given effect without the invalid provision or application
and to this end the provisions of this chapter are hereby declared severable.
(Ord. 2005-136, passed 11-28-2005; Ord. 2014-3, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 1170.15 MINIMUM MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENT.
   The owner of a landmark or contributing structure or any structure within
the Downtown Overlay District shall provide sufficient maintenance and upkeep
for the structure to ensure its perpetuation and to prevent its destruction by
deterioration, whether the building is vacant or occupied.
(Ord. 2005-136, passed 11-28-2005; Ord. 2014-3, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 1170.16 EXCLUSIONS.
   The following items are excluded from this regulation:
   (a)   The removal/demolition of declared public nuisance (e.g. fire damaged
buildings) that pose a threat to the health and safety of the general public;
   (b)   Temporary repairs needed to prevent structural deterioration and decay
following a natural disaster or other acts of nature recognized by the city;
and
   (c)   Normal and ordinary maintenance functions not regulated elsewhere in
this chapter are excluded from this regulation.
(Ord. 2005-136, passed 11-28-2005; Ord. 2014-3, passed 2-10-2014)
§§ 1170.17 – 1170.20 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
§ 1170.21 DESIGN REVIEW BOARD FEE.
   Review fees. Each applicant shall pay, prior to the review of an
application, a fee as established and set forth in the fee schedule in Part One
- Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these Codified Ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time. In addition, the applicant shall pay, prior to
the issuance of a Certificate of Appropriateness, any reasonable cost the city
has incurred in obtaining independent expert consultations that the city
determines are necessary to review the application and advise the city.
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
***** TITLE SEVEN: ZONING GENERAL PROVISIONS *****
CHAPTER 1171: COMPLIANCE AND GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
1171.01   Conformance required
1171.02   Board to determine additional uses
1171.03   Board to determine additional prohibited uses
1171.04   Conversion of dwellings
1171.05   Rear dwellings
1171.06   Yard requirements along zoning boundary line in less restricted
district
1171.07   Accessory uses in all zoning districts
1171.08   Street frontage required
1171.09   Traffic visibility across corner lots
1171.10   Required area or space cannot be reduced
1171.11   Main building or structure
1171.12   Off-street parking and loading
1171.13   Encroaching doors
1171.14   Unsafe buildings
1171.15   Home occupations
1171.16   Underground wiring and utilities
1171.17   Temporary storage containers
1171.18   Residential construction dumpsters
1171.19   Medical marijuana
Charter reference:
   Zoning, Housing and Building Appeals Board powers and duties, see Charter §
7.04
Cross-reference;
   Definitions, see
Ch. 1133
   Enforcement and penalty, see
Ch. 1135
§ 1171.01 CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   (a)   Except as hereinafter specified, no land, building, structure or
premises, shall hereafter be used, and no building or part thereof, or other
structure, shall be located, erected, moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged
or altered except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the
district in which it is located.
   (b)   These regulations include, without limitation, the following:
      (1)   The use of building, structure or land, including performance
standards for the control of any dangerous and objectionable elements, as
defined herein, in connection with the use;
      (2)   The height, size and dimensions of buildings or structures;
      (3)   The size or dimensions of lots, yards and other open spaces
surrounding building; and
      (4)   The provision, location, size, improvement and operation of off-
street parking, loading and unloading spaces.
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
§ 1171.02 BOARD TO DETERMINE ADDITIONAL USES.
   Uses other than those specifically mentioned in this Zoning Ordinance as
permitted uses in each of the districts may also be allowed therein, provided
that, in the judgment of the Zoning Board of Appeals, as evidenced by
resolution of record, other uses are of similar character to those mentioned
and will have no adverse influence or no more adverse influence on adjacent
properties or the neighborhood or the community than the permitted uses
specifically mentioned for the district.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1171.03 BOARD TO DETERMINE ADDITIONAL PROHIBITED USES.
   Uses other than those specifically prohibited in this Zoning Ordinance in
any district shall also be prohibited therefrom, provided that in the judgment
of the Zoning Board of Appeals, as evidenced by resolution of record, other
uses are similar in character to those specifically prohibited in that they
would have similar or more serious adverse influence on adjacent properties or
the neighborhood or the community than the uses specifically mentioned as
prohibited in the district.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1171.04 CONVERSION OF DWELLINGS.
   The conversion of any building into a dwelling or the conversion of any
dwelling so as to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units or
families, shall be permitted only within a district in which a new building for
similar occupancy would be permitted under this Zoning Ordinance, but only when
the resulting occupancy shall comply with the requirements governing new
construction in the district, with respect to minimum lot size, lot area per
dwelling unit, percentage of lot coverage, dimensions of yards and other open
spaces and off-street parking. Each conversion shall be subject also to further
requirements as may be specified hereinafter with the chapter applying to the
district.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1171.05 REAR DWELLINGS.
   No building in the rear of a principal building on the same lot shall be
used for residential purposes unless it conforms to all the yard and other open
space and off-street parking requirements of this Zoning Ordinance. For the
purpose of determining the front yard in these cases, the rear line of the
required rear yard for the principal building in front shall be considered the
front lot line for the building in the rear. In addition, there must be
provided for any rear dwellings an unoccupied and unobstructed accessway not
less than 20 feet wide, to a public street for each dwelling unit in a
dwelling, or one not less than 50 feet wide for three or more dwelling units.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1171.06 YARD REQUIREMENTS ALONG ZONING BOUNDARY LINE IN LESS RESTRICTED
DISTRICT.
   Along any zoning boundary line, on a lot adjoining the boundary line in the
less restricted district, any abutting side yard, rear yard or court, unless
subject to greater restrictions or requirements stipulated by other provisions
of this Zoning Ordinance, shall have a minimum width and depth equal to the
average of the required minimum width or depth for the side yard, rear yards or
courts in the two districts on either side of the zoning boundary line. In
cases where the height of a proposed structure on the lot in less restricted
district is greater than the maximum height permitted in the adjoining more
restricted district, the minimum width or depth of the side yard, rear yard or
court for the structure shall be determined by increasing the minimum width or
depth for the highest structure permitted in a more restricted district by one
foot for each two feet by which the proposed structure exceeds the maximum
height permitted in a more restricted district.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1171.07 ACCESSORY USES IN ALL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (a)   General. An accessory building may be erected detached from the
principal building or may be erected as an integral part of the principal
building, or it may be connected therewith by a breezeway or similar structure.
No accessory building shall be erected in any required court or yard. No
accessory building shall be greater in size than 35% of the gross floor area of
the principal building, nor shall it occupy more than 35% of a required rear or
side yard. No accessory building shall be greater than 15 feet in height in
residential districts, R-1 through R-7, or 20 feet in height in business
districts, B-1 through B-3. Accessory uses in B-4, HT-1, I-1 and I-2 shall
comply with current height restrictions for each zone.
   (b)   Corner lots. In any district, where a corner lot adjoins in the rear a
lot fronting on the side street, no part of an accessory building on the corner
lot within 25 feet of the common lot line shall be nearer a side street lot
line than the least depth of the front yard required along the side street for
a dwelling or building on the adjoining lot, and in no case shall any part of
the accessory building be nearer to the side street lot line than the least
width of the side yard required for the principal building to which it is
accessory.
   (c)   Without main building. No accessory building or structure shall be
erected or constructed prior to the erection or construction of the principal
or main building.
   (d)   Solar units, dish-type satellite signal receiving stations and ham
radio towers. 
      (1)   Any solar unit or dish-type satellite signal receiving station
greater than 18 inches in diameter shall be located in the rear yard with no
part projecting into the side or front yard and shall be located so that
however turned or otherwise used, all parts of the use shall be set back at
least 20 feet from side and rear lot lines. On a corner lot, the required
setback shall be no less than the required setback for the principal dwelling
or structure on the lot plus an additional five feet, or 20 feet, whichever is
greater.
      (2)   The height of any solar unit or dish-type satellite signal
receiving station shall not extend above 15 feet or the height of the main
building to which it is associated, whichever is less. The maximum diameter of
any dish-type receiving station shall not exceed 12 feet. No installation or
erection of a solar unit or dish-type satellite signal receiving station
greater than 30 inches in diameter shall commence before a permit is obtained
in accordance with the provisions of the Building Code.
      (3)   Only one solar unit and only one dish-type antenna greater than 30
inches in diameter shall be permitted per lot.
      (4)   Television towers or radio towers used by amateur radio operators
shall be located in the rear yard and shall not exceed 50 feet in height above
grade. All parts of the accessory structure shall be set back at least 20 feet
from the side and rear lot lines. On a corner lot, the required setback shall
be no less than the required setback for the principal dwelling or structure on
the lot plus an additional five feet, or 20 feet, whichever is greater. No
installation or erection of an amateur radio tower shall commence before a
permit is obtained in accordance with the City Building Code.
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
§ 1171.08 STREET FRONTAGE REQUIRED.
   Except as permitted by other provisions of this Zoning Ordinance, no lot
shall contain any building used in whole or part for residential purposes
unless the lot abuts for at least 65 feet on a street; except cul-de-sac lots
and flag lots. Cul-de-sac and flag lots shall comply with zoning frontage at
the building line and shall comply with the applicable provisions in Chapters
1147 and 1148.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1171.09 TRAFFIC VISIBILITY ACROSS CORNER LOTS.
   Sight distance as defined in the Ohio Department of Transportation’s
Location and Design Manual, Vol. 1. shall govern if they are more strict then
the standards found in this section. No fence, wall, sign, structure, vehicle
or planting shall be erected, established or maintained on any lot which will
obstruct the view of drivers in vehicles approaching an intersection of two
roads or the intersection of a road and a driveway or curb cut. Fences, walls,
signs, structures, vehicles or plantings located in the triangular area
described below shall not be permitted to obstruct cross-visibility between a
height of 30 inches and five feet above the lowest point of the intersecting
road(s) (see
Figure 1171.09A).
   (a)   Unobstructed sight area. The unobstructed triangular area is described
as follows.
      (1)   Driveway intersection sight triangle. At intersections of driveways
with streets, the sight triangle shall be established by locating the
intersection of the street curb with the driveway edge, and by measuring from
this point a distance of ten feet along the driveway to a point and a distance
of 20 feet along the street curb to a point and connecting these points (see
Figure 1171.09B)
      (2)   Street intersection sight triangle. At street-intersections, the
sight triangle shall be formed by measuring at least 35 feet along curb lines
and connecting these points. Within the first 20 feet of the street
intersection sight triangles, no structure or landscaping material is permitted
except required ground cover. Within the portion of sight triangle that is
located between 20 feet and 35 feet, signs and trees shall be permitted only
when the pole or trunk is the only part of a sign or tree that is visible
between the ground and five feet above the ground, or otherwise does not
present a traffic visibility hazard (see
Figure 1171.09B).
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998; Ord. 2004-15, passed 3-8-2004)
Figure 1171.09A Site Clearance Zones
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c92b507198cac9540f9ff13dca280883e1007fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3850.jpg]
 
Figure 1171.09B Clear Vision Zones
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c92b507198cac9540f9ff13dca280883e1007fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3852.jpg]
 
§ 1171.10 REQUIRED AREA OR SPACE CANNOT BE REDUCED.
   No lot, yard, court, parking area or other space shall be reduced in area or
dimension so as to make the area or dimension less than the minimum required by
this Zoning Ordinance. No part of a yard, court, parking area or other space
provided about, or for, any building or structure for the purpose of complying
with the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance shall be included as part of the
yard, court, parking area or other space required under this Zoning Ordinance
for another building or structure.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1171.11 MAIN BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.
   Only one main building or structure can be located on any lot of record.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1171.12 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   In every district spaces for off-street parking and for off-street loading
and unloading shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 1175.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1171.13 ENCROACHING DOORS.
   Every garage building or portion of a main building used for garage purposes
shall be so equipped that the doors when open or being opened will not project
beyond any lot line of the lot on which the building is located; and when the
doors open to an alley the wall or portion thereof containing the doors shall
be at least six feet from the line forming the common boundary between the lot
and the alley.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1171.14 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   The Engineering and Building Department of the city shall have the authority
under the City Building Code to declare a building unsafe for occupancy.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1171.15 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (a)   It is the intent and purpose of this section to preserve the quiet and
privacy of residential districts against the detracting encroachment or
infiltration of commercial endeavors, while also preserving the right of
individual residents to pursue legitimate hobbies and occupations, and to
retain or improve skills not utilized in their principle avocation. The burden
of proof that a home occupation complies with both the specified limitations
and the above intent and purpose shall be on the person or persons involved in
the home occupation. Procedures shall be established by the City Manager for
receiving and handling complaints, and may include fees and penalties separate
from others in this Zoning Ordinance if approved by action of Council.
   (b)   In any residence district, no home occupation shall be permitted which
represents a nuisance to other residents in the vicinity. For purposes of this
Zoning Ordinance, the term NUISANCE shall include any circumstance associated
with the home occupation which has a detrimental influence beyond the limits of
the property being used. Circumstances which shall be deemed to be of
detrimental influence shall include, but not necessarily be limited to a
violation of any of the following restrictions:
      (1)   There shall be no more than one nonilluminated sign, no larger than
one square foot in area, which shall be located in conjunction with a curb-side
mail box installation or attached to the dwelling;
      (2)   Nothing shall be done to make the building or lot appear in any way
as anything but a dwelling and residential lot;
      (3)   No one is employed from outside the resident family;
      (4)   Mechanical and electrical equipment used shall be only that
normally used or found in a single-family dwelling; and, when performance rated
shall be limited to normally domestic ratings rather than commercial or
industrial;
      (5)   No product may be offered for sale at the dwelling unless that
product has been produced or substantially altered in form or value by the home
occupation activities;
      (6)   Delivery of supplies and materials shall be accomplished by private
automobile, regular mail service or small delivery vehicles of the type
normally used for small parcel deliveries to single-family dwellings. In the
latter case there shall be no more than two deliveries per week; and at no time
shall semitrailer type vehicles be involved;
      (7)   The volume of activity shall be limited so that no more than two
automobiles or other vehicles involved in the home occupation are present
outside the dwelling at any one time;
      (8)   No odors or trash accumulation shall be present outside the
dwelling; and
      (9)   No vibrations or electrical interferences generated by the home
occupation shall be noticeable outside the lot limits. No sounds generated by
the home occupation shall be emitted in violation of the Noise Ordinance.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1171.16 UNDERGROUND WIRING AND UTILITIES.
   Underground electric and telephone lines and other utilities are mandatory
in all zoning districts. For the purposes of this Zoning Ordinance, underground
wiring and utilities shall not be considered structures. In industrial
subdivisions where Duke Energy advises the city that the power load
requirements are sufficiently large as to make underground service impractical
or unfeasible, electric and telephone lines may be installed overhead along
rear lot and telephone lines. In an event where feed and the cost of installing
underground service is impractical and unfeasible, electric and telephone lines
may be installed overhead with the approval of the City Manager and Council.
Should Council approve the overhead distribution system, all connections to it
shall be made underground. All facilities are to be constructed on one side of
the road without overhead crossovers.
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
§ 1171.17 TEMPORARY STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   A temporary storage container (including portable storage units, shipping
containers, or similar storage structures) is permitted as a temporary,
accessory use in commercial and residential districts and shall be regulated as
follows:
   (a)   A temporary storage container is only permitted for a period not to
exceed 30 days within a one-year period but may be extended once by the Zoning
Administrator for up to thirty (30) additional days. A zoning certificate is
required to place a portable storage unit on any premises.
   (b)   A temporary storage container must be: located on a concrete or
asphaltic concrete surface, a minimum of 10 feet from the right-of-way, and a
minimum of three (3) feet from all other property lines, unless otherwise
approved by the Zoning Administrator.
   (c)   Temporary storage containers, on a property at any one time, may not
exceed an aggregate of 1,200 cubic feet on the interior.
   (d)   If the temporary storage container is being used to store personal
property as a result of a major calamity (e.g. fire, flood, auto, tree or other
event where there is significant property damage), the Zoning Administrator may
extend the time limitation of subsection (a), not to exceed six months per
calendar year.
   (e)   Temporary storage containers, whose duration does not exceed 72 hours,
shall not be required to obtain a zoning certificate.
(Ord. 2016-54, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 1171.18 RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION DUMPSTERS.
   A dumpster for the purpose of residential construction activities is
permitted as a temporary, accessory use in a residential district and shall be
regulated as follows:
   (a)   A dumpster is only permitted for a period not to exceed 30 days within
a one-year period but may be extended once by the Zoning Administrator for up
to thirty (30) additional days. A zoning certificate is required to place a
dumpster on any premises.
   (b)   A dumpster must be located a minimum of 10 feet from the right-of-way
and a minimum of three (3) feet from all other property lines.
   (c)   A maximum of one dumpster is allowed on a property at any one time and
is limited to a maximum 40-yard capacity and 23 feet in length.
   (d)   Dumpsters, whose duration does not exceed 72 hours, shall not be
required to obtain a zoning certificate.
(Ord. 2016-54, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 1171.19 MEDICAL MARIJUANA.
   Pursuant to the authority set forth in R.C. § 3796.29, medical marijuana
cultivation, processing, and retail dispensaries as licensed and defined under
R.C. Chapter 3796 shall not be permitted in any zoning district, overlay or
Planned Unit Development within the City of Mason.
(Ord. 2017-139, passed 1-22-2018)
CHAPTER 1172: CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES
Section
1172.01   Purpose
1172.02   Approval procedures
1171.03   General standards for conditional uses
1172.04   Child day-care centers
1172.05   Convalescent, nursing and rest homes
1172.06   Automobile service stations, automobile repair and body shops,
automobile accessories
1172.07   Automobile washing
1172.08   Convenience food stores and drive-in and drive-through facilities;
fast food restaurants
1172.09   Bed and breakfasts
1172.10   Home-based barber shops and beauty salons
1172.11   Animal hospitals, veterinarian clinics and kennels
Cross-reference
   Conditional uses, see
Ch. 1172
   Conditional variances, see §
1141.09
§ 1172.01 PURPOSE.
   Conditionally permitted uses are those uses described or referred to herein
which have a particular impact on the surrounding area that cannot be
predetermined and controlled by general regulations. In order to ensure that
these uses in their proposed location will be compatible with surrounding
development, their establishment shall not be a matter of right, but may be
permitted after review and approval as hereinafter provided. Toward these ends,
it is recognized that this Zoning Ordinance should provide for more detailed
evaluation of each use conditionally permissible in a specific district with
respect to considerations such as location, design, size, methods(s) of
operation, intensity of use, public facilities requirements and traffic
generation. Accordingly, conditional use permits shall conform to the
procedures and requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1172.02 APPROVAL PROCEDURES.
   Conditionally permitted uses shall require approval of Council after review
by Planning Commission and shall be subject to requirements and standards
specified in this chapter. In order to preserve the character of the
neighborhood and to otherwise promote and effectuate the purposes of this
Zoning Ordinance, additional restrictions may be deemed necessary and may be
imposed by Council incident to the approval of an application.
   (a)   Planning Commission review procedures. The Planning Commission shall
consider all applications for conditional use permits and shall make
recommendations thereon to Council.
      (1)   Permit application. An application for a conditional use permit
shall be made by the property owner or agent thereof, to the City Engineer on a
form provided for the purposes, and shall be accompanied by all required fees
and 20 copies of the following:
         A.   A site plan and other drawings to scale, showing existing and
proposed use of the site, all pertinent natural and man-made features, and
adjacent residential character and buildings;
         B.   A list of names and mailing addresses of all owners of property
within 300 feet of any part of the property in question;
         C.   A statement of need for the proposed use, its location and
magnitude;
         D.   A summary report identifying and evaluating the consequences and
effects of the proposed use on the surrounding properties and the neighborhood
at large;
         E.   A statement indicating how the negative effects of the proposed
use will be mitigated; and
         F.   A landscape plan in conformance with the requirements of the
Landscape Ordinance.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
      (2)   Consideration by Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall
consider the application at a regular meeting scheduled within 45 days after
the submission of a complete application of material for a conditional use
permit. After due consideration of all applicable factors, the Commission shall
make a written recommendation to Council on each of the following:
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
         A.   The location of the conditional use and its suitability for the
district for which it is proposed; and
         B.   A finding on whether the proposed use will have a negative effect
on or will conflict with surrounding areas. To this end, the Planning
Commission may recommend additional requirements and conditions with regard to
construction, maintenance and operation as it deems necessary to protect
adjacent uses and public interest.
      (3)   Disapproval by Planning Commission. If the Planning Commission does
not recommend the application for a conditional use, it shall enter in its
minutes the reason for the same. The applicant may thereafter make changes and
resubmit the application to the Commission for reconsideration. The revised
application shall be processed within the time and in the manner provided in
this section.
   (b)   Council review procedures.
      (1)   Council approval. After consideration by the Planning Commission,
Council shall conduct a public hearing for a conditional use permit.
Notification of the public hearing shall be by the following means:
         A.   A notice of the hearing shall be mailed by registered mail to all
property owners within 300 feet of any part of the property in question. The
notice shall specify the date, place and time of hearing, and shall contain a
statement as to the nature and location of the proposed use;
         B.   The notification shall be mailed no less than ten days before the
hearing. The notification of the hearing shall also be made by means of
publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, adequately
describing the nature of the proposed conditional use, once a week for two
consecutive weeks on the same day of the week, the first of the publications to
take place not less than 30 days prior to the public hearing; and
         C.   Following the public hearing, during its next regular business
meeting, Council shall approve or disapprove the application for a conditional
use permit.
      (2)   Conditional use permit issued.  Following Council’s approval, and
upon payment of a conditional use permit fee, a conditional use permit shall be
issued to the applicant by the Zoning Administrator.
   (c)   Period of validity of conditional use permit. In any case where an
approved conditional use permit has not been used within one year of the date
on which it was granted, that permit shall expire unless an extension of the
above time period has been authorized by the Planning Commission.
   (d)   Expansion and/or conversion. Approved conditional uses shall be
considered conforming uses. The uses may be expanded or rebuilt or redesigned
without a public hearing provided that no additional property is acquired to
accommodate the expansion and that the expansion conforms to other pertinent
provisions of this chapter and the terms of the permit, and providing further
that any subsequent expansion of the conditionally permitted use involving the
enlargement of building structures, surface improvements, parking area and/or
land area devoted to the conditional use, and the conversion of an approved
conditional use to a different permitted conditional use, shall require
approval of a separate conditional use permit application pursuant to the
procedures set forth in this section.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1172.03 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following §§
1172.04 through
1172.10 include specific conditional use criteria and requirements for those
uses conditionally permitted in this Zoning Ordinance as provided for in this
chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the Planning Commission from
prescribing supplementary conditions and safeguards in addition to these
requirements and in accordance with this chapter.
   (a)   Intent. The intent of §§
1172.04 through
1172.10 is to establish supplementary standards for certain special land uses
that may affect adjacent properties, the neighborhood or the community even if
all other standards of this Zoning Ordinance are met. It is also the intent of
this section to establish appropriate standards for permit processing and for
the location, design and operation of conditional uses to assure that they will
be developed in a manner consistent with the intent of this Zoning Ordinance.
   (b)   Applicability of conditional use standards.  Standards and conditions
in §§
1172.04 through
1172.10 are related to the special characteristics of the uses specified and,
unless otherwise noted, apply to development in addition to all other
applicable standards and regulations in this Zoning Ordinance.
      (1)   In the event that the standards of this section conflict with the
provisions of other sections of this Zoning Ordinance, these standards prevail,
except for legal nonconformities as regulated in
Chapter 1173.
      (2)   In the event that a use is subject to more than one division of the
section, the most restrictive standards shall apply.
      (3)   In addition to the standards set forth in this article, all uses
specified as conditional uses require approval by the Planning Commission and
shall be subject to the procedures and requirements as set forth in §
1172.02.
   (c)   General standards. In addition to the specific requirements for
conditionally permitted uses as specified in §§
1172.04 through
1172.10, the Commission shall review the particular facts and circumstances of
each proposed use in terms of the following standards and shall find adequate
evidence showing that the use at the proposed location:
      (1)   Is a permitted conditional use in the district for which it is
proposed;
      (2)   Will be in accordance with the general objectives, or with any
specific objective, of the city’s Comprehensive Plan and/or the Zoning
Ordinances;
      (3)   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained so as to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity and that the use will not change the
essential character of the same area;
      (4)   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future
neighboring uses;
      (5)   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and
services such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage
structures, refuse disposal, water and sewer and schools; or that the persons
or agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able
to adequately provide any services;
      (6)   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost
for public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community;
      (7)   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment
and conditions or operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property
or the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise,
smoke, fumes, glare or odors;
      (8)   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as to not create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares; and
      (9)   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural,
scenic or historic feature of major importance.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1172.04 CHILD DAY-CARE CENTERS.
   The following conditions apply to child day-care centers in the R-1, R-2, R-
3, R-4, R-6 and R-7 districts:
   (a)   Minimum lot area. Day-care centers for seven or more children shall
have a minimum lot area of 7,500 square feet, or 500 square feet per child,
whichever is greater. Home child care of six or fewer children is considered a
home occupation and is regulated in §
1171.15.
   (b)   Required outdoor play area. There shall be provided a minimum of 100
square feet of fenced outdoor play area per child.
   (c)   Required access and loading/unloading.
      (1)   An on-site drop-off area shall be provided at the main entrance to
the facility sufficient to accommodate four automobiles for facilities with 20
or fewer children plus one additional vehicle for each additional ten children
served.
      (2)   Access to an arterial or collector street is required or access
shall be provided in a manner that does not cause heavy traffic on residential
streets, and a traffic impact report pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 1135 shall be provided.
   (d)   Required fencing. All outdoor play areas shall be enclosed by a fence
or wall a minimum of five feet in height, except that a minimum six-foot high
wall, solid wood fence or chain link fence planted with a continuous evergreen
screen shall be provided around all outdoor play areas abutting a residential
property.
   (e)   Hours of operation. Use of outdoor play areas shall be limited to
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
   (f)   Special provisions for day-care centers in nonresidential districts.
The Planning Commission has the power to require additional fencing, screening
and/or other measures deemed necessary to protect the health, safety and
welfare of children using day-care centers in commercial, industrial or other
high hazard areas, or to deny a request to locate a facility in the areas based
on health and safety considerations.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1172.05 CONVALESCENT, NURSING AND REST HOMES.
   The following conditions apply to convalescent, nursing and rest home uses
in the R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-6 and R-7 Districts.
   (a)   Minimum lot area. Two acres.
   (b)   Access and traffic impact. All developments shall have access only
from an arterial or collector street, or access shall be provided in a manner
that does not substantially impact traffic on residential streets.
   (c)   Proximity to goods and services. A range of convenience goods and
personal services shall be available to residents of the proposed facility
within walking distance (500 feet) or unless it can be demonstrated that
residents will have adequate access to the uses via private vehicles or other
forms of transportation.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
   (d)   Screening. Any open vehicular use area closer than 150 feet to any
adjoining residential property shall be screened by a combination of a solid
wall, fence or densely planted continuous hedge at least five feet in height.
Additional screening as determined by the Planning Commission may be necessary
if the topography in the area places vehicular use areas in clear view from the
adjacent residential property.
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
   (e)   Lot coverage. The amount of impervious surface (building, pavement and
the like) on the site shall be limited to 40% of the total site area.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1172.06 AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATIONS, AUTOMOBILE REPAIR AND BODY SHOPS,
AUTOMOBILE ACCESSORIES.
   (a)   Minimum lot area. Forty thousand square feet.
   (b)   Setbacks and screening.
      (1)   All outdoor display areas, gasoline pumps, canopies and any
buildings used for service, repair work or automobile washing shall be located
a minimum of 100 feet from any adjacent residential property.
      (2)   A solid wood fence or masonry wall at least six feet high shall be
provided on any side of the site adjacent to a residential property.
   (c)   Limitations on use. Activities at automobile service stations shall be
limited to:
      (1)   The sale of petroleum fuel, primarily for passenger vehicles;
      (2)   The servicing of motor vehicles with minor repair work;
      (3)   The following accessory uses:
         A.   Machine vending of merchandise;
         B.   Washing automobiles provided that no chain conveyor, steam
cleaner or other mechanical device greater than 25 feet is used;
         C.   Retail sale of miscellaneous products relating to minor repair
work (oil, grease, anti-freeze, tires, batteries, windshield wipers and similar
items); and
         D.   Rental of trucks and trailers, provided that no more than 10% of
the total site shall be devoted to the activity; no rental units over 30 feet
in length shall be permitted; rental vehicles shall not be permitted to be
stored either in required off-street parking spaces or within required front
building setback; and a minimum of 160 square feet of lot area shall be
provided for every trailer to be stored and 320 square feet for every truck to
be stored.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
      (4)   Except in I-1 and I-2 Districts, these activities are strictly
prohibited: major repair work, including automobile body repair and painting,
automobile glass work, automobile transmission work, automobile engine overhaul
and repair, and radiator repair work.
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
   (d)   Enclosed within building. For all uses regulated by this section, all
hydraulic hoists, oil pits and all lubricants, greasing and repair equipment
shall be enclosed entirely within a building. No outdoor disassembly or repair
of motor vehicles shall be permitted.
   (e)   Landscaping. All areas not paved or covered by the building shall be
landscaped, and all landscaped areas shall be separated from all paved areas by
six-inch high curbing.
   (f)   Access and traffic impact. Access shall be from an arterial street or
commercial collector. The minimum distance of driveways from intersections
shall be 150 feet. The minimum distance of driveways to an entrance/exit of a
school, place of worship, cemetery or child day-care center shall be 200 feet.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1172.07 AUTOMOBILE WASHING.
   (a)   Minimum lot area. Forty thousand square feet.
   (b)   Setbacks and screening.
      (1)   All structures shall be located at least 100 feet from any adjacent
residential property.
      (2)   A solid fence, wall or hedge at least six feet high shall be
required when an automobile washing facility is adjacent to a residential
property.
   (c)   Limitations on use.
      (1)   All washing facilities shall be located entirely within an enclosed
building, except that entrance and exit doors may be left open during the hours
of operation.
      (2)   Vacuuming and/or steam cleaning equipment may be located outside a
building, but shall not be placed in any yard adjoining a residential property.
   (d)   Off-street waiting and circulation.
      (1)   Five off-street waiting spaces shall be provided for auto washing
facilities. Waiting spaces shall not block or otherwise interfere with site
circulation patterns.
      (2)   A hard-surfaced exit drive not less than 40 feet in length shall be
provided between the exit doors and the street.
   (e)   Access and traffic impact. Access shall be from an arterial street or
commercial collector.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1172.08 CONVENIENCE FOOD STORES AND DRIVE-IN AND DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITIES;
FAST FOOD RESTAURANTS.
   (a)   Minimum lot area.
      (1)   Minimum lot area shall be 7,500 square feet, except that uses with
drive-in or drive-through facilities shall be located on lots with a minimum
area of 40,000 square feet.
      (2)   All structures, including drive-in or drive-through windows and
lanes, shall be set back at least 100 feet from any residential property.
   (b)   Screening. A solid wood fence or masonry wall six feet high shall be
constructed where a convenience food store, drive-in or drive-through store or
fast food restaurant is located adjacent to a residential property.
   (c)   Off-street parking and circulation.
      (1)   Stacking space for eight vehicles shall be provided for every
drive-in and drive-through facility. Stacking spaces shall not block or
otherwise interfere with site circulation patterns.
      (2)   Customer and employee parking shall be separated from drive-in and
drive-through activities and customer parking shall be located in the area with
highest accessibility to dining or sales areas.
      (3)   The circulation system shall provide smooth, continuous traffic
flow with efficient, non-conflicting movement throughout the site. Major
pedestrian movements shall not conflict with major vehicular circulation
movements.
   (d)   Access and traffic impact. Access shall be from an arterial street or
commercial collector or shall be provided in a manner that does not cause heavy
traffic on residential streets.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1172.09 BED AND BREAKFASTS.
   The following conditions and standards shall apply to bed and breakfasts in
the B-1 Districts.
   (a)   General limitations.
      (1)   Bed and breakfast facilities shall be compatible with the
surrounding area and with sufficient site area to accommodate existing and
future needs.
      (2)   There shall be no substantial modification to the exterior
appearance of the structure unless required by city and state building codes
(e.g. fire escapes, disabled ramps, doorways and the like).
      (3)   Breakfast shall be served on the premises only for the guests of
the facility and no other meals shall be provided.
      (4)   No long term rental of units greater than 14 days shall be
permitted.
      (5)   There shall be a maximum of five guest rooms.
   (b)   Proximity to another facility. No bed and breakfast shall be located
within 400 feet of another bed and breakfast facility unless waived by the
Planning Commission.
   (c)   Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with
Chapter 1175. One space shall be provided for each guest sleeping room or
suite, plus two additional spaces for the owner occupants. No parking shall be
provided in any front yard. Parking for more than four vehicles shall be
screened from view from the street right-of-way or adjoining property by a
three foot average height planting hedge, fence, wall or earth mound and one
tree for every 40 feet of lineal boundary.
   (d)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be provided in accordance with the
Landscape Ordinance. Where the bed and breakfast home or bed and breakfast inn/
lodge is adjacent to a residential property, a continuous combination wood
fence, wall, hedge or earth mound six feet in height shall be provided.
   (e)   Signage. There shall be no exterior advertising except one externally
illuminated two-sided identification sign not to exceed four square feet in
area per sign face. Ground or post/hanging signs shall not exceed six feet in
height.
   (f)   Setback. A bed and breakfast inn/lodge shall comply with the district
setback requirements. Parking shall be no more than ten feet from any rear or
side yard lot line.
   (g)   Lighting. All lighting shall have a total cutoff angle of less than 90
degrees, a maximum illumination of 1.0 foot candles and shall not spill over
onto adjacent property.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1172.10 HOME-BASED BARBER SHOPS AND BEAUTY SALONS.
   Home-based barber shop or beauty salon as defined by §
1133.85 provided that the barber shop or beauty salon meets the following
conditions.
   (a)   There shall be no more than one non-illuminated sign, no larger than
one square foot in area, which shall be located in conjunction with the
curbside mailbox installation or attached to the dwelling.
   (b)   Nothing shall be done to make the building or lot appear in any way as
anything but a dwelling and residential lot.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
   (c)   The lot size on which the barber shop or beauty salon is to be located
is no less than one acre in size.
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
   (d)   The building in which the barber shop or beauty salon is to be located
shall have a setback of 75 feet from the front property line and shall comply
with all other setback requirements.
   (e)   The barber shop or beauty salon shall not have more than two chairs in
which to provide its services.
   (f)   The hours of operation for the barber shop or beauty salon shall be
within the hours of 10:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
   (g)   No odors or trash accumulation shall be present outside the dwelling.
   (h)   No additional curb cuts will be added to the lot or property.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1172.11 ANIMAL HOSPITALS, VETERINARIAN CLINICS AND KENNELS.
   The following conditions apply to animal hospitals, veterinarian clinics and
kennels in the B-2 and B-3 Districts.
   (a)   Minimum lot area. Lot area shall meet the minimum size for the
district in which the use is located.
   (b)   Operation.
      (1)   Each animal hospital, veterinarian clinic and kennel shall be
subject to all permit and operational laws and regulations established by the
state and county and any of their regulatory agencies.
      (2)   No kennel facility shall be located outside the principal building.
      (3)   Outdoor exercise areas shall only be used between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
      (4)   Rooms which contain animals shall be insulated, or otherwise
soundproofed and vented so that animal noises are not audible anywhere beyond
the lot.
   (c)   Setbacks and screening.
      (1)   All structures, including fencing, shall be located at least 200
feet from any side and rear property line abutting a residential district and
100 feet from any side or rear property line abutting a business district.
Parking areas shall meet the minimum setbacks for the district in which they
are located.
      (2)   All exercise areas shall be enclosed by a fence or wall a minimum
of five feet in height, except that a minimum six foot high wall, solid wood
fence or chain link fence planted with a continuous evergreen screen shall be
maintained around all outdoor exercise areas abutting residential property.
   (d)   Special provisions for animal hospitals, veterinarian clinics and
kennels adjacent to day-care centers and other public facilities. The Planning
Commission shall have the authority to require additional fencing, screening
and/or other measures it deems necessary to protect the health, safety and
welfare of people located adjacent to an animal facility, or to deny a request
to locate a facility in the areas, based on health and safety considerations
   (e)   Performance standards. The Planning Commission may impose other
conditions and limitations it deems necessary to prevent or mitigate possible
nuisances, such as noise and odor, including limiting the number of animals on
the premises. All applications for conditional use permit shall include a
statement of the maximum number of animals to be boarded on premises.
(Ord. 2004-155, passed 1-10-2005)
CHAPTER 1173: NONCONFORMING USES
Section
1173.01   Purpose
1173.02   Incompatibility of nonconformities
1173.03   Avoidance of undue hardship
1173.04   Certificates for nonconforming uses
1173.05   Substitution of nonconforming uses
1173.06   Single nonconforming lots of record
1173.07   Nonconforming lots of record in combination
1173.08   Nonconforming uses of land
1173.09   Nonconforming structures
1173.10   Nonconforming uses of structures or of structures and land in
combination
1173.11   Termination of use through discontinuance
1173.12   Termination of use by damage or destruction
1173.13   Repairs and maintenance
Cross-reference:
   Nonconforming signs, see
Ch. 1187
   Nonconforming use defined, see §
1133.105
Statutory reference:
   Nonconforming uses, retroactive measures, see R.C. § 713.15
§ 1173.01 PURPOSE.
   Within the districts established by this Zoning Ordinance, lots, uses of
land, structures and uses of structures and land in combination exist which
were lawful before this Zoning Ordinance was passed or amended, but which would
be prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of this Zoning
Ordinance. The legitimate interest of those who lawfully established these
nonconformities are recognized by providing for their continuance, subject to
regulation limiting their completion, restoration, reconstruction, extension
and substitution. Nothing contained in this Zoning Ordinance shall be construed
to require any change in the layout, plans, construction, size or use of any
lot, structure or structure and land in combination for which a zoning permit
became effective and does not lapse prior to the effective date of this Zoning
Ordinance. While it is the intent of this Zoning Ordinance that the
nonconformities be allowed to continue until removed, they should not be
encouraged to survive. No nonconformity may be moved, extended, altered,
expanded or used as grounds for any other use(s) or structure(s) prohibited
elsewhere in the district without the approval of the Planning Commission and
Council, except as otherwise specifically provided for in this Zoning
Ordinance.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1173.02 INCOMPATIBILITY OF NONCONFORMITIES.
   Nonconformities are declared by this Zoning Ordinance to be incompatible
with permitted uses in the districts in which the uses are located. A
nonconforming use of a structure, a nonconforming use of land or a
nonconforming use of a structure and land in combination shall not be extended
or enlarged after passage of this Zoning Ordinance by attachment on a building
or premises of additional signs intended to be seen from off the premises, or
by the addition of other uses of a nature which would be generally prohibited
in the district in which the use is located.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1173.03 AVOIDANCE OF UNDUE HARDSHIP.
   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this Zoning Ordinance shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building
on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this Zoning Ordinance and upon which actual building
construction has been carried on diligently. ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION is defined to
include the placing of construction materials in permanent position and
fastened in a permanent manner. Where demolition or removal of an existing
building has substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, the demolition or
removal shall be deemed to be actual construction, provided that the work shall
be carried out diligently.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1173.04 CERTIFICATES FOR NONCONFORMING USES.
   The Zoning Administrator may, upon his or her own initiative, or shall upon
the request of any owner, issue a zoning certificate for any lot, structure,
use of land, use of structure or use of land and structure in combination, that
certifies that the lot, structure or use is a valid nonconforming use. The
certificate shall specify the reason why the use is a nonconforming use,
including a description of the extent and kind of use made of the property in
question, the portion of the structure or land used for the nonconforming use,
and the extent that dimensional requirements are nonconforming. The purpose of
this section is to protect the owners of lands or structures that are, or
become, nonconforming. No fee shall be charged for a certificate. One copy of
the certificate shall be returned to the owner and one copy shall be retained
by the Zoning Administrator, who shall maintain as a public record a file of
all certificates.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1173.05 SUBSTITUTION OF NONCONFORMING USES.
   So long as no structural alterations are made, except as required by
enforcement of other codes or ordinances, any nonconforming use may, upon
appeal to and approval by the Zoning Board of Appeals, be changed to another
nonconforming use of the same classification or of a less intensive
classification, provided that the Board shall find that the use proposed for
substitution is equally appropriate or more appropriate to the district than
the existing nonconforming use. In permitting the change, the Board may require
that additional conditions and safeguards be met, which requirements shall
pertain as stipulated conditions to the approval of the change, and failure to
meet the conditions shall be considered a punishable violation of this Zoning
Ordinance. Whenever a nonconforming use has been changed to a less intensive
use or becomes a conforming use, the use shall not thereafter be changed to a
more intensive use or other nonconforming use.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1173.06 SINGLE NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a single-
family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single
lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Zoning
Ordinance. The lot must be in separate ownership and not of continuous frontage
with other lots in the same ownership. This provision shall apply even though
the lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both (that are
generally applicable in the district), provided that yard dimensions and
requirements other than those applying to area or width, or both, of the lot
shall conform to the regulations for the district in which the lot is located.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1173.07 NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD IN COMBINATION.
   If two or more lots or a combination of lots and portions of lots with
continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or
amendment of this Zoning Ordinance, and if all or part of the lots with no
buildings do not meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the
lands involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes
of this Zoning Ordinance. No portion of the parcel shall be used or sold in a
manner which diminishes compliance with lot width and area requirements
established by this Zoning Ordinance, nor shall any division of any parcel be
made which creates a lot with a width or area below the requirements stated in
this Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1173.08 NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   At the time of adoption of this Zoning Ordinance, lawful uses of land exist
which would not be permitted by the regulations imposed by this Zoning
Ordinance. These uses may be continued so long as they remain otherwise lawful,
provided:
   (a)   No nonconforming uses shall be enlarged or increased, nor extended to
occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this Zoning Ordinance;
   (b)   No nonconforming uses shall be moved in whole or in part to any
portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by the uses at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this Zoning Ordinance;
   (c)   If any nonconforming uses of land are voluntarily discontinued or
abandoned for more than six months (except when government action impedes
access to the premises), any subsequent use of the land shall conform to the
regulations specified by this Zoning Ordinance for the district in which the
land is located; and
   (d)   No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this
Zoning Ordinance shall be erected in connection with the nonconforming use of
land.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1173.09 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this Zoning Ordinance that could not be built under the terms of
this Zoning Ordinance by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height,
yards, its location on the lot, intensity or other requirements concerning the
structure, the structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise
lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   (a)   No nonconforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which
increases its nonconformity, but any structure or portion thereof may be
altered to decrease its nonconformity;
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
   (b)   Should the nonconforming structure or nonconforming portion of a
structure be destroyed by any means to the extent of more than 50% of the cost
of replacement, as set forth in §
1173.12, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity within the
provisions of this Zoning Ordinance; and
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
   (c)   Should the structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1173.10 NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES OR OF STRUCTURES AND LAND IN
COMBINATION.
   If a lawful use involving individual structures, or of a structure and land
in combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
Zoning Ordinance that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of
this Zoning Ordinance, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions.
   (a)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this Zoning
Ordinance in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located. Reconstruction occurs when the cost of the work to be done is greater
than 50% of the cost of replacement as set forth in §
1173.12.
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
   (b)   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for the use at the time of
adoption or amendment of this Zoning Ordinance, but no use shall be extended to
occupy any land outside the building.
   (c)   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the district, and the nonconforming use may not thereafter
be resumed.
   (d)   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and land in
combination, is discontinued or abandoned for more than six months (except when
government action impedes access to the premises), the structure, or structure
and land in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in conformity with
the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (e)   When nonconforming use status is applied to a structure and land in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1173.11 TERMINATION OF USE THROUGH DISCONTINUANCE.
   When any nonconforming use is discontinued or abandoned for more than six
months, any new use shall not thereafter be used except in conformity with the
regulations of the district in which it is located, and the nonconforming use
may not thereafter be resumed. The intent to continue a nonconforming use shall
not be evidence of its continuance.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1173.12 TERMINATION OF USE BY DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION. 
   In the event that any nonconforming building or structure is destroyed by
any means to the extent that the estimated cost of repair is greater than 50%
of the last appraised cost of the structure, exclusive of foundation, it shall
not be rebuilt, restored or reoccupied for any use unless it is brought into
conformity with all regulations of this Zoning Ordinance. When a nonconforming
structure is damaged or destroyed to the extent that the estimated cost of
repair is 50% or less of the replacement cost, no repairs or rebuilding shall
be permitted except in conformity with all applicable regulations of this
Zoning Ordinance and the following conditions:
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
   (a)   A zoning certificate pertaining to the restoration shall be applied
for and issued within one year of the destruction, and rebuilding shall be
diligently pursued to completion; and
   (b)   The restoration shall not cause a new nonconformity, nor shall it
increase the degree of nonconformance or noncompliance existing prior to the
damage or destruction.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1173.13 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   On any nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
nonconforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs or on repair or
replacement of non-bearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing, provided that
the cubic content existing when it became nonconforming shall not be increased.
Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or
restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of
the official. Where appropriate, a building permit for the activities shall be
required.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
CHAPTER 1174: LARGE RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT DESIGN STANDARDS
Section
1174.01   Purpose
1174.02   Facades and exterior walls
1174.03   Materials and colors
1174.04   Roofs
1174.05   Building entryways
1174.06   Outdoor display
1174.07   Mechanical equipment
1174.08   Traffic and vehicular access
1174.09   Pedestrian flows
1174.10   Central features and community space
1174.11   Lighting
1174.12   Noise control
1174.13   Design creativity
1174.14   Modifications
1174.15   Variances and appeals
§ 1174.01 PURPOSE.
   The standards in this section are needed to protect the public health,
safety and welfare by requiring large retail establishments to locate on
arterial roads to separate commercial and residential generated traffic;
improve pedestrian safety; diminish the negative impacts of blight caused by
vacant commercial structures on adjacent property by increasing reuse
opportunities; reduce the impacts on adjacent uses, especially on nearby
residential uses, including light and noise; and requiring unique architecture
and community spaces and other design elements so that a distinctive visual
appearance and small town ambiance is maintained to promote the long term
viability of the community’s businesses districts and quality of life of the
city’s residents.
(Ord. 2006-81, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 1174.02 FACADES AND EXTERIOR WALLS.
   Facades should be articulated to reduce the massive scale and the uniform,
impersonal appearances of large retail buildings and provide visual interest
that will be consistent with the community’s identity, character and scale.
   (a)   No large retail establishment shall be designed, modeled or
constructed after franchise or formula based architecture. All large retail
establishments constructed in the city shall be original in design unique only
to the city, except franchise businesses may advertise corporate logos on
permitted signage.
   (b)   Building facades must include a repeating pattern that shall include
no less than three of the following elements: color change; texture change;
material module change; and expression of architectural or structural bay
through a change in plane no less than 24 inches in width, such as an offset,
reveal or projecting rib. All elements shall repeat at intervals of no more
than 30 feet to give the structure an appearance of several individual attached
bays developed with internal common walls.
   (c)   Facades greater than 100 feet in length, measured horizontally, shall
incorporate wall plane projections or recesses having a depth of at least 3% of
the length of the facade and extending at least 20% of the length of the
facade.
   (d)   Ground floor facades that face public streets shall have arcades,
clear glass display windows, entry areas, awnings or other features along no
less than 60% of their horizontal length.
   (e)   Facades and walls must have a recognizable base with (but not limited
to):
      (1)   Thicker walls, ledges or sills;
      (2)   Integrally textured elements such as stone or other masonry;
      (3)   Integrally colored and patterned elements such as smooth-finished
stone;
      (4)   Lighter or darker colored elements, mullions or panels; and
      (5)   Planters.
(Ord. 2006-81, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 1174.03 MATERIALS AND COLORS.
   Large retail establishments shall have exterior building materials and
colors that are compatible with its surroundings. This includes the use of
high-quality materials and colors that are low reflective, subtle, neutral or
earth tone. High-intensity colors, bright primary colors, metallic colors or
fluorescent colors are prohibited. Shiny, glossy or reflective materials or
brighter colors may be used on building trim and accents with a cumulative
surface area of less than or equal to one quarter of 1% (< =0.25%) of a wall.
Neon lighting as an architectural trim is prohibited. Construction materials
such as tilt-up concrete, smooth-faced concrete block, prefabricated steel
panels, and other similar materials shall be avoided unless the exterior
surface is covered with an acceptable architectural treatment.
(Ord. 2006-81, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 1174.04 ROOFS.
   Roof features should be used to complement the character of adjoining
neighborhoods. Variations in roof lines should be used to add interest to, and
reduce the massive scale of large buildings. Roofs shall have no less than two
of the following features:
   (a)   Parapets concealing flat roofs and rooftop equipment from public view.
The average height of the parapets shall not exceed 15% of the height of the
supporting wall and the parapets shall not at any point exceed one-third of the
height of the supporting wall. The parapets shall feature three dimensional
cornice treatments;
   (b)   Cornice treatments, other than colored stripes or bands alone, with
integrally textured elements such as stone or other masonry or differently
colored elements;
   (c)   Sloping roofs with overhanging eaves and brackets, extending no less
than three feet past the supporting walls;
   (d)   Sloping roofs that do not exceed the average height of the supporting
walls, which utilize trusses and pillars; and/or
   (e)   Three or more roof slope planes per building elevation.
(Ord. 2006-81, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 1174.05 BUILDING ENTRYWAYS.
   Large retail establishments shall feature multiple entrances. Multiple
entrances reduce walking distances from cars and provide greater access from
public sidewalks. Additional building entrances on side exterior walls are
required to provide convenient store access from parking lots located in side
and rear yards. Exterior building entrances are encouraged to tenant spaces
other than the primary retail tenant located in the same structure. Each
principal building on a site shall have clearly defined, visible customer
entrances featuring no less than four of the following:
   (a)   Recesses/projections;
   (b)   Overhangs, canopies or porticos;
   (c)   Arcades;
   (d)   Raised corniced parapets over the door;
   (e)   Peaked roof forms;
   (f)   Arches;
   (g)   Outdoor patios;
   (h)   Display windows;
   (i)   Architectural details such as tile work and moldings which are
integrated into the building; and/or
   (j)   Integral planters or wing walls that incorporate landscaped areas and/
or places for sitting.
(Ord. 2006-81, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 1174.06 OUTDOOR DISPLAY.
   Large retail establishments may offer for direct sale to the public
merchandise which is displayed outdoors with the following standards.
   (a)   The outdoor display area is located behind the front building corners.
   (b)   Permitted merchandise and retail items are completely enclosed by
masonry walls or columns and decorative wrought iron bars or other similar
materials that match the colors and material of the principal structure.
   (c)   Landscaping shall be provided around the front and side outdoor
display walls.
(Ord. 2006-81, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 1174.07 MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT.
   All mechanical equipment shall be completely screened to mitigate noise and
views in all directions. If roof-mounted, the screen shall be designed to
conform architecturally to the design of the building either with varying roof
planes or with parapet walls.
(Ord. 2006-81, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 1174.08 TRAFFIC AND VEHICULAR ACCESS.
   (a)   Large retail establishments shall provide safety and protection to
adjacent residential uses by having primary motor vehicles access from arterial
roads as designated on the Thoroughfare Plan.
   (b)   Access points shall conform to the specific requirements of
Chapter 1115 Access Management Regulations.
   (c)   An applicant funded traffic impact study shall be provided pursuant to
Chapter 1116 Traffic Impact Study Regulations.
(Ord. 2006-81, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 1174.09 PEDESTRIAN FLOWS.
   The project shall provide pedestrian accessibility, safety and convenience
to reduce traffic impacts and enable the development to project a friendly
inviting image.
   (a)   Continuous internal pedestrian walkways, no less than four feet in
width shall be provided from the public sidewalk or bike path located in the
adjacent road right-of-way to each principal customer entrance of all principal
buildings on the site.
   (b)   All internal pedestrian walkways shall be elevated and/or
distinguished from driving surfaces through the use of durable, low maintenance
surface materials such as pavers, bricks or scored concrete to enhance
pedestrian safety and comfort, as well as the attractiveness of the walkways.
   (c)   Raised sidewalks, no less than eight feet in width, shall be provided
along the full length of the building along any facade featuring a customer
entrance, and along any facades abutting public parking areas. The sidewalks
shall be located away from the building to accommodate required foundation
landscaping, except where features such as arcades or entryways are part of the
facade.
(Ord. 2006-81, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 1174.10 CENTRAL FEATURES AND COMMUNITY SPACE.
   Each large scale retail establishment subject to these standards shall
contribute to the establishment or enhancement of community and public spaces
by providing at least two of the following: decorative pedestrian plaza with
benches, decorative streetscape with window shopping walkway, outdoor
playground area, kiosk area, water feature, clock tower or other deliberately
shaped area and/or a focal feature or amenity. These areas shall have direct
access to the public sidewalk network and the features shall be constructed of
materials that are similar in quality to the principal materials of the
building and landscape. Central features and community space areas shall be at
least 5% of the gross floor area of the large retail establishment in size.
(Ord. 2006-81, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 1174.11 LIGHTING.
   For the purpose of providing consistent site lighting that does not produce
glare and reduces the illumination of the night sky, the following lighting
standards shall be followed.
   (a)   All non-decorative lighting shall use fully shielded, cut off type
fixtures.
   (b)   Decorative, pedestrian scale lights are required in all areas of
pedestrian activity including, but not limited to, sidewalks, streetscape areas
and plazas.
   (c)   The maximum illumination at all property lines shall be 0.5 foot
candles as demonstrated on a photometric plan.
   (d)   Light poles shall be consistent with the overall architectural theme
of the site and be located in landscape islands located in vehicular use areas
where possible.
   (e)   Neon accent lighting is prohibited on buildings.
   (f)   Light poles shall not exceed 30 feet in height.
(Ord. 2006-81, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 1174.12 NOISE CONTROL.
   (a)   Delivery, loading, trash removal or other similar operation are
prohibited from 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. when any activity performed as part of
a large retail establishment is located within 1,000 feet of residentially
zoned or used property.
   (b)   Outdoor speakers are prohibited unless no audible detection can be
heard by the human ear at any adjacent or nearby property zoned or used as
residential.
(Ord. 2006-81, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 1174.13 DESIGN CREATIVITY.
   Creativity in large retail establishment site and building design is
encouraged. The requirements in this chapter are minimum requirements, and
under no circumstance shall they preclude the developer and/or applicant and
the municipality from agreeing to greater design creativity. Design creativity
shall not, however, be used to circumvent the minimum requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2006-81, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 1174.14 MODIFICATIONS.
   Upon the request of an applicant, the Planning Commission may approve
applications of submitted large retail establishment site plans from the terms
of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter
would detract from the stated purpose of this chapter. A request for a
modification shall be submitted to the Planning Commission and shall be heard
at a regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting. The Planning Commission
shall decide the issue within a reasonable time after the meeting. In
evaluating a request for a modification, the Planning Commission shall include,
but not be limited to, the following criteria:
   (a)   Specific condition(s) exist which are unique to the applicant’s land,
and do not exist on other land within the same zone;
   (b)   Strict application of this chapter would deprive the applicant of a
reasonable use of the land in a manner equivalent to the use permitted other
landowners in the same zone;
   (c)   The unique conditions and circumstances are not self-created after the
adoption of this chapter;
   (d)   Reasons that the modification shall preserve, not harm the public
safety and welfare, and shall not alter the essential character of the
neighborhood; and
   (e)   The requested modification substantially complies with the terms and
stated purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-81, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 1174.15 VARIANCES AND APPEALS.
   An applicant may appeal any decision made by the Planning Commission by
submitting a complete application for a Zoning Board of Appeals hearing. The
Zoning Board, upon appeal, may grant specific variances from the terms of this
chapter as will not be contrary to the public health, safety and welfare and
the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-81, passed 8-28-2006)
CHAPTER 1175: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
Section
1175.01   Loading spaces
1175.02   Off-street parking lots
1175.03   Parking and loading access
1175.04   Units of measurement
1175.05   Number of parking spaces required
1175.06   Collective provision
1175.07   Development and maintenance of parking areas
1175.08   Modifications
Cross-reference:
   Parking lot defined, see §
1133.117
   Parking space defined, see §
1133.118
Statutory reference:
   Off-street parking facilities, see R.C. §§ 717.05 et seq.
§ 1175.01 LOADING SPACES.
   (a)   When required. In any district, in connection with every building or
part thereof hereafter erected and having a gross floor area of 10,000 square
feet or more, which is to be occupied by manufacturing storage, warehouses,
goods display, retail store, wholesale store, market, hotel, hospital,
mortuary, laundry, dry cleaning or other uses similarly requiring the receipt
or distribution by vehicles of materials or merchandise, there shall be
provided and maintained, on the same lot with the building, at least one off-
street loading space plus one additional loading space for each 20,000 square
feet or major fraction thereof of gross floor area so used in excess of 20,000
square feet. Where the floor area of the building exceeds 100,000 square feet,
the number of off-street loading spaces shall be determined by the Planning
Commission.
   (b)   Dimensions. Each loading space shall be not less than ten feet in
width, 25 feet in length and 14 feet in height.
   (c)   Distance from residential districts. No space shall be closer than 100
feet to any other lot located in any residential district, unless wholly within
a completely enclosed building or unless enclosed on all sides by a wall or
uniformly painted solid board fence, of acceptable design to the Planning
Commission, not less than six feet in height.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1175.02 OFF-STREET PARKING LOTS.
   (a)   When required. In all districts, in connection with every industrial,
business, institutional, recreational, residential or other use, there shall be
provided, at the time any building or structure is erected or is enlarged or
increased in capacity, off-street parking spaces for automobiles in accordance
with the requirements herein.
   (b)   Minimum dimensions. Except in the case of dwellings, no parking area
provided hereunder shall be less than 1,000 square feet in area.
 
Circulation aisle 22 feet in width
Parking space     9 feet by 18 feet exclusive of access drives or aisles
Stacking space    9 feet by 22 feet exclusive of access drives or aisles
 
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1175.03 PARKING AND LOADING ACCESS.
   There shall be adequate provision for ingress and egress to all parking
spaces. Except in the case of a dwelling, no parking area for three or more
vehicles shall be permitted unless it is arranged that vehicles are not forced
to back into any public street.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1175.04 UNITS OF MEASUREMENT.
   (a)   For purposes of this chapter, the units of measurement in this section
shall apply.
   (b)   For the purpose of applying the requirements in §
1175.05, FLOOR AREA, in the case of office, merchandising or service types of
uses, means the  gross floor area used or intended to be used by tenants, or
for service to the public as customers, patrons, clients or patients, including
areas occupied by fixtures and equipment used for display or sales of
merchandise. It shall not include areas used principally for nonpublic
purposes, such as storage, incidental repair, processing or packaging of
merchandise, for show windows, for offices incidental to the management or
maintenance of stores or buildings for toilet or rest rooms, for utilities or
for dressing rooms, fitting or alteration rooms.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1175.05 NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   In connection with every land use, there shall be provided at the time any
building or structure is erected, at the time any use of land is extended or at
the time the use of a building changes, off-street parking to accommodate all
motor vehicles of residents or employees, visitors and customers. Off-street
parking facilities shall be provided for all uses according to
Table 1175. In the case of a use not specifically stated, the requirements for
off-street parking facilities shall be based on a similar use contained in
Table 1175.
Table 1175 - Parking Space Requirements
Principal Use(s) Minimum Spaces Required
Table 1175 - Parking Space Requirements
                                                                                  Minimum
Principal Use(s)                                                                  Spaces
                                                                                  Required
(a)   Residential
                                                                                  2 spaces/
                                                                                  unit (multi-
                                                                                  family units
   (1)   Single-family, two-family and multi-family                         may require
                                                                                  additional
                                                                                  visitor
                                                                                  parking)
                                                                                  1.5 spaces/
                                                                                  unit (1
   (2)   Apartments                                                         space
                                                                                  completely
                                                                                  enclosed in
                                                                                  a garage)
                                                                                  1 space/
   (3)   Group homes                                                        4 residents
                                                                                  + 1 space/
                                                                                  employee
                                                                                  .75 space/
   (4)   Elderly housing facility                                           unit + 1
                                                                                  space/
                                                                                  employee
(b)   Retail, Commercial and Service Uses
                                                                                  1 space/
                                                                                  3 students
                                                                                  at capacity
   (1)   Commercial schools and studios                                     + 1 space/
                                                                                  employee on
                                                                                  largest
                                                                                  shift
                                                                                  1.5 spaces/
   (2)   Convenience stores                                                 200 sq. ft.
                                                                                  gross floor
                                                                                  area
                                                                                  1 space/200
   (3)   Financial establishments                                           sq. ft.
                                                                                  gross floor
                                                                                  area
                                                                                  1 space/50
                                                                                  sq. ft.
                                                                                  public floor
                                                                                  area + 1
   (4)   Funeral homes                                                      space/
                                                                                  employee + 1
                                                                                  space/
                                                                                  business
                                                                                  vehicle
                                                                                  1 space/200
   (5)   General merchandise stores and supermarkets                        sq. ft.
                                                                                  gross floor
                                                                                  1 space/400
                                                                                  sq. ft.
   (6)   Home furnishings, home improvement stores                          gross indoor
                                                                                  and outdoor
                                                                                  display area
                                                                                  1 space/200
                                                                                  sq. ft.
                                                                                  gross floor
   (7)   Nurseries and garden supplies stores                               + 1 space/
                                                                                  1000 sq. ft.
                                                                                  exterior
                                                                                  display area
                                                                                  1 space/100
                                                                                  sq. ft.
                                                                                  gross floor
   (8)   Restaurant, standard                                               + 1 space/
                                                                                  employee on
                                                                                  largest
                                                                                  shift
                                                                                  1 space/50
                                                                                  sq. ft.
                                                                                  gross floor
                                                                                  +1 space/
                                                                                  employee on
   (9)   Restaurant, fast food                                              largest
                                                                                  shift + 8
                                                                                  stacking
                                                                                  spaces for
                                                                                  drive-
                                                                                  through
                                                                                  service
                                                                                  1 space/200
                                                                                  sq. ft.
                                                                                  gross floor
                                                                                  area less
                                                                                  than 2000
                                                                                  sq. ft. + 1
                                                                                  space/250
                                                                                  sq. ft.
                                                                                  gross floor
                                                                                  area greater
                                                                                  than 2000
   (10)   Specialty retail, commercial and personal services                sq. ft. or 1
                                                                                  space/300
                                                                                  sq. ft. for
                                                                                  multi-tenant
                                                                                  building(s)
                                                                                  in a single
                                                                                  development
                                                                                  with a
                                                                                  combined
                                                                                  gross floor
                                                                                  area greater
                                                                                  than 10,000
                                                                                  sq. ft.
                                                                                  1 space/300
                                                                                  sq. ft.
                                                                                  gross floor
                                                                                  + 1 space/
   (11)   Business and cleaning services                                    employee on
                                                                                  largest
                                                                                  shift + 1
                                                                                  space/
                                                                                  business
                                                                                  vehicle
                                                                                  1 space/50
   (12)   Taverns, bars and nightclubs                                      sq. ft.
                                                                                  gross floor
                                                                                  area
                                                                                  1 space/
                                                                                  employee + 5
                                                                                  stacking
   (13)   Drive-through and drive-in facilities                             spaces for
                                                                                  each drive-
                                                                                  in window or
                                                                                  drive-
                                                                                  through lane
                                                                                  4 stacking
   (14)   Drive-through automatic teller machines at nonfinancial institutiospaces/
                                                                                  machine
                                                                                  1 space/
                                                                                  2 employees
                                                                                  on the
                                                                                  largest
(c)   Recreation                                                               shift +
                                                                                  additional
                                                                                  specified in
                                                                                  items (1)
                                                                                  through (9)
                                                                                  below
   (1)   Auditoriums, arenas, stadiums, gymnasiums and playing fields       1 space/
                                                                                  4 seats
                                                                                  8 spaces/
                                                                                  hole + 50%
   (2)   Golf courses                                                       of spaces
                                                                                  required for
                                                                                  accessory
                                                                                  uses
                                                                                  60 spaces/
   (3)   Parks and playgrounds                                              athletic
                                                                                  field
                                                                                  1 space/250
   (4)   Recreation centers                                                 sq. ft.
                                                                                  gross floor
                                                                                  area
                                                                                  1 space/750
   (5)   Recreation centers, if exclusively designed for senior citizens or sq. ft.
persons under 16 years of age                                                     gross floor
                                                                                  area
                                                                                  1 space/300
   (6)   Skating rinks                                                      sq. ft.
                                                                                  gross floor
                                                                                  area
                                                                                  1 space/75
   (7)   Swimming pools                                                     sq. ft. of
                                                                                  water
                                                                                  surface area
   (8)   Indoor tennis, racquetball and handball courts                     4 spaces/
                                                                                  court
   (9)   Outdoor tennis courts                                              2 spaces/
                                                                                  court
(d)   Road Service and Commercial Recreation
                                                                                  1 space/
                                                                                  2 service
                                                                                  bays + 1
   (1)   Automobile service and repair                                      space/
                                                                                  employee on
                                                                                  largest
                                                                                  shift
                                                                                  5 spaces/
                                                                                  stall + 1
   (2)   Automobile washing facilities, self service                        space/
                                                                                  employee on
                                                                                  largest
                                                                                  shift
                                                                                  15 spaces +
                                                                                  1 space/
   (3)   Automobile washing facilities, assembly line                       employee on
                                                                                  largest
                                                                                  shift
                                                                                  5 spaces/
                                                                                  alley + any
   (4)   Bowling alleys                                                     additional
                                                                                  required for
                                                                                  accessory
                                                                                  uses
                                                                                  1 space/50
   (5)   Assembly, exhibition and bingo halls                               sq. ft.
                                                                                  gross floor
                                                                                  area
                                                                                  1 spaces/
                                                                                  2 persons at
   (6)   Game rooms and pool halls                                          maximum
                                                                                  capacity + 1
                                                                                  space/
                                                                                  2 employees
                                                                                  1 space/tee
                                                                                  + 1 space/
   (7)   Golf driving range                                                 employee on
                                                                                  the largest
                                                                                  shift
                                                                                  1.5 space/
                                                                                  hole + 1
   (8)   Miniature golf                                                     space/
                                                                                  employee on
                                                                                  the largest
                                                                                  shift
                                                                                  1 space/
   (9)   Sweepstakes/internet cafes                                         computerized
                                                                                  sweepstakes
                                                                                  device
                                                                                  1 space/2.5
   (10)   Theaters, concert, meeting and banquet halls                      seats at
                                                                                  maximum
                                                                                  capacity
                                                                                  1 space/
                                                                                  4 patrons at
                                                                                  the maximum
                                                                                  capacity + 1
   (11)   Outdoor commercial recreation not specifically regulated elsewherespace/
                                                                                  2 employees
                                                                                  on the
                                                                                  largest
                                                                                  shift
                                                                                  1 space/50
                                                                                  sq. ft.
                                                                                  floor area
   (12)   Fraternal and social clubs                                        for assembly
                                                                                  + 1 space/
                                                                                  200 sq. ft.
                                                                                  of other
                                                                                  floor area
                                                                                  1 space/room
                                                                                  or suite + 1
                                                                                  space/
                                                                                  3 employees
                                                                                  on the
                                                                                  largest
                                                                                  shift + 1
                                                                                  space/
   (13)   Hotels and motels                                                 3 persons at
                                                                                  maximum
                                                                                  capacity of
                                                                                  meeting
                                                                                  rooms + 50%
                                                                                  of spaces
                                                                                  otherwise
                                                                                  required for
                                                                                  any other
                                                                                  uses
                                                                                  1 space/800
                                                                                  sq. ft. of
                                                                                  interior
                                                                                  floor area +
                                                                                  1 space/
   (14)   Vehicle sales and service, lumberyards and building material sales3,000 sq.
                                                                                  ft. of
                                                                                  exterior
                                                                                  area for
                                                                                  sale or
                                                                                  display
(e)   Institutional
                                                                                  1 space/250
                                                                                  sq. ft.
                                                                                  gross floor
   (1)   Community centers, libraries, museums, art galleries, public officearea + 1
                                                                                  space/
                                                                                  employee on
                                                                                  largest
                                                                                  shift
                                                                                  1 space/
                                                                                  5 children +
                                                                                  1 space/
   (2)   Day-care centers                                                   employee + 3
                                                                                  waiting
                                                                                  spaces for
                                                                                  drop-off/
                                                                                  pick-up
                                                                                  1 space/
   (3)   Elementary and junior high schools                                 2 classrooms
                                                                                  + 1 space/
                                                                                  employee
                                                                                  1 space/
   (4)   High schools                                                       6 students +
                                                                                  1 space/
                                                                                  employee
                                                                                  1 space/
                                                                                  3 classroom
   (5)   Colleges and universities                                          seats + 1
                                                                                  space/
                                                                                  employee
                                                                                  1 space/
                                                                                  2 beds + 1
   (6)   Hospitals and clinics                                              space/
                                                                                  employee on
                                                                                  largest
                                                                                  shift
   (7)   Places of worship                                                  1 space/
                                                                                  4 seats
                                                                                  1 space/
                                                                                  6 beds + 1
   (8)   Convalescent, nursing or rest homes                                space/
                                                                                  employee on
                                                                                  largest
                                                                                  shift
(f)   Offices and clinics
                                                                                  1 space/300
   (1)   Business, professional and administrative offices                  sq. ft.
                                                                                  gross floor
                                                                                  area
                                                                                  3 spaces/
                                                                                  treatment
                                                                                  room or
   (2)   Medical offices and clinics                                        chair + 1
                                                                                  space/
                                                                                  employee on
                                                                                  largest
                                                                                  shift
                                                                                  3 spaces/
                                                                                  treatment
                                                                                  room + 1
   (3)   Veterinary clinics                                                 space/
                                                                                  employee on
                                                                                  largest
                                                                                  shift
(g)   Industrial
                                                                                  1 space/300
                                                                                  sq. ft. of
   (1)   Construction trades, contractor offices and industrial craft shops floor area +
                                                                                  1 space/
                                                                                  business
                                                                                  vehicle
                                                                                  1 space/
                                                                                  employee on
                                                                                  the largest
                                                                                  shift + 1
                                                                                  space/10,000
                                                                                  sq. ft.
   (2)   Manufacturing, printing, publishing, laundry and dry cleaning plantfloor area +
                                                                                  1 space/
                                                                                  business
                                                                                  vehicle
                                                                                  regularly
                                                                                  stored on-
                                                                                  site
                                                                                  1 space/
                                                                                  employee or
                                                                                  volunteer +
                                                                                  1 space/
   (3)   Recycling centers                                                  collection
                                                                                  vehicle + 2
                                                                                  spaces/
                                                                                  collection
                                                                                  vehicle and
                                                                                  container
                                                                                  1 space/4000
                                                                                  sq. ft.
                                                                                  floor area +
   (4)   Warehouses and mini-warehouses                                     1 space/
                                                                                  employee on
                                                                                  the largest
                                                                                  shift
                                                                                  1 space/300
                                                                                  sq. ft.
                                                                                  office and
                                                                                  sales area +
                                                                                  1 space/4000
   (5)   Wholesaling facilities                                             sq. ft. of
                                                                                  storage area
                                                                                  + 1 space/
                                                                                  employee on
                                                                                  the largest
                                                                                  shift
                                                                                  1 space/800
                                                                                  sq. ft. of
                                                                                  floor area +
   (6)   Heavy equipment rental, sales and storage                          1 space/3000
                                                                                  sq. ft. area
                                                                                  for sale or
                                                                                  display
                                                                                  1 space/
                                                                                  employee on
                                                                                  the largest
                                                                                  shift + 1
                                                                                  space/10,000
                                                                                  sq. ft.
   (7)   Heavy industrial not specifically regulated elsewhere              floor area +
                                                                                  1 space/
                                                                                  business
                                                                                  vehicle
                                                                                  regularly
                                                                                  stored on-
                                                                                  site
 
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998; Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999; Ord. 2011-64,
passed 8-8-2011; Ord. 2015-89, passed 9-28-2015)
§ 1175.06 COLLECTIVE PROVISION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent collective provision
of off-street parking facilities for two or more buildings or uses, provided
that the total of off-street parking spaces supplied collectively shall not be
less than the sum of the requirements for the various uses computed separately.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1175.07 DEVELOPMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF PARKING AREAS.
   Every parcel of land used to park or store motor vehicles or trailers,
except property used for residential or agricultural purposes, shall be
developed and maintained in accordance with the following requirements:
   (a)   Screening and landscaping. Off-street parking areas for more than five
vehicles shall be screened and landscaped as required by the Landscape
Ordinance.
   (b)   Surfacing. Any off-street parking area, parking space, parking lot and
all access drives to the areas shall be surfaced with a pavement of concrete or
asphaltic concrete of sufficient depth to meet the standard engineering
practice for the design of pavements for the anticipated traffic load and shall
be so graded and drained to meet the requirements of
Chapter 1119 for the disposal of all surface water accumulated within the
areas, and shall be so arranged and marked as to provide for orderly and safe
loading, unloading, parking and storage of motor vehicles.
   (c)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking area
shall be so arranged as to deflect the light away from any adjoining premises
in any residence district.
   (d)   Curbing. All paved areas must have curbing unless waived by the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2004-155, passed 1-10-2005)
§ 1175.08 MODIFICATIONS.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals may authorize on appeal a modification,
reduction or waiver of the foregoing requirements, if it should find that, in
the particular case appealed, the peculiar nature of the residential, business,
trade, industrial or other use, or the exceptional shape or size of the
property or other exceptional situation or condition, would justify the action.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
CHAPTER 1177: MOTELS AND MOTOR HOTELS
Section
1177.01   Where permitted
1177.02   Entrances
1177.03   General requirements
1177.04   Landscaping for unused areas
1177.05   Enlargement
Cross-reference:
   Hotel defined, see §
1133.88
   Motel defined, see §
1133.102
§ 1177.01 WHERE PERMITTED.
   Motels and motor hotels are permitted only in designated districts and shall
front on a street designated as a major or minor arterial, provided that the
premises shall be enclosed by a solid wall or fence at least six feet high
where it abuts in the rear or on the sides of any residence district, public
park, school and the like. No kitchen or cooking facilities for the use of the
transients or guests shall be provided in any motel or hotel unit.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1177.02 ENTRANCES.
   No vehicular entrances to or exits from any motel or motor hotel, wherever
such may be located, shall be within 200 feet along streets from any school,
public playground, church, hospital, library or institution for dependents or
for children, except where the property is in another block or another street
which the premises in question does not abut.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1177.03 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Applicable county and city sanitary regulations shall be complied with, in
addition to the following regulations.
   (a)   Area and yard requirements. Motels and motor hotels shall comply with
the applicable provisions of the district in which they are located.
   (b)   Parking. All areas used for automobile access and parking shall comply
with the applicable provisions of
Chapter 1175.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1177.04 LANDSCAPING FOR UNUSED AREAS.
   All areas not used for access, parking, circulation, buildings and services
shall comply with the Landscape Ordinance.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1177.05 ENLARGEMENT.
   Any enlargement or extension to any existing motel or motor hotel shall
require application for a zoning certificate as if it were a new establishment.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
CHAPTER 1181: HEIGHT MODIFICATIONS
Section
1181.01   Height limitations not applicable
1181.02   Minimum requirements
Cross-reference:
   Building height defined, see §
1133.20
§ 1181.01 HEIGHT LIMITATIONS NOT APPLICABLE.
   The height limitations stipulated elsewhere in this Zoning Ordinance shall
not apply to the following:
   (a)   Farm buildings and architectural features. Barns, silos or other farm
buildings or structures on farms; to water towers, fire and hose towers,
cooling towers, transmission towers, windmills, chimneys, smokestacks, and flag
poles; and to parapet walls extending not more than four feet above the
limiting height of the building.
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999; Ord. 2015-90, passed 10-12-2015)
   (b)   Places of public assembly. Places of public assembly in churches,
schools and other permitted public and semi-public buildings, provided that
these are located on the first floor of such buildings and provided that for
each foot by which the height of such buildings exceeds the maximum height
otherwise permitted in the district, its side and rear yard setbacks shall be
increased in width or depth by an additional two feet over the side and rear
yards required for the highest building otherwise permitted in the district.
   (c)   Cellular or wireless communications systems. Cellular or wireless
communication antennas or towers shall comply with
Chapter 1188.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998; Ord. 2015-90, passed 10-12-2015)
§ 1181.02 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   All structures above the heights otherwise permitted in the district shall
not occupy more than 25% of the area of the lot and shall be distant not less
than 50 feet in all parts from every lot line not a street line.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
CHAPTER 1183: FRONTAGE AND YARD MODIFICATIONS
Section
1183.01   Buildings on through lots
1183.02   Frontage modification
1183.03   Average depth of front yards
1183.04   Rear and side yard computation
1183.05   Side yard modification
Charter reference:
   Zoning, Building and Housing Appeals Board powers and duties, see Charter §
7.04
Cross-reference:
   Street frontage, see §
1171.08
   Yard projections, see
Ch. 1185
   Yard requirements along boundary line in less restricted district, see §
1171.06
§ 1183.01 BUILDINGS ON THROUGH LOTS.
   Buildings on through lots shall conform to the front yard requirements for
each street. In case of reversed frontage, an accessory building shall not
extend beyond the setback line of the rear street.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1183.02 FRONTAGE MODIFICATION.
   In the case of curvilinear streets and cul-de-sacs, the Zoning Board of
Appeals may authorize a reduction of the otherwise specified frontage or lot
width in residential districts along the front property line, provided that:
   (a)   The lot width at the building line shall equal the frontage or lot
width required in the district where located;
   (b)   The lot width at the street frontage shall be not less than 30 feet in
any event; and
   (c)   The reduction of frontage shall not result in a reduction of the
required lot area.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1183.03 AVERAGE DEPTH OF FRONT YARDS.
   In any residential district, where the average depth of at least two
existing front yards on lots within 100 feet of the lot in question and within
the same block front is less or greater than the least front yard depth
prescribed elsewhere in this Zoning Ordinance; the required depth of the front
yard on the lot shall be modified. In this case, this shall not be less than
the average depth of the existing front yards on the two lots immediately
adjoining, or, in the case of a corner lot, the depth of the front yard on any
lot immediately adjoining; provided, however, that the depth of a front yard on
any lot shall be at least 20 feet and need not exceed 60 feet.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1183.04 REAR AND SIDE YARD COMPUTATION.
   In computing the depths of a rear yard or the width of a side yard, where
the rear or side yard abuts on an alley, one-half of the width of the alley may
be included as a portion of the required rear or side yard, as the case may be.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1183.05 SIDE YARD MODIFICATION.
   (a)   Side yard increased. Each side yard, where required, shall be
increased in width by one inch for each foot by which the length of the side
wall of the building, adjacent to the side yard, exceeds 50 feet.
   (b)   Side yard varied, wall not parallel. Side yard width may be varied
where the side wall of a building is not parallel with the side lot line or is
broken or otherwise irregular. In these cases the average width of the side
yard shall not be less than the otherwise required least width; provided,
however, that the side yard shall not be narrower at any point than one-half
the otherwise required least width, or narrower than three feet in any case.
   (c)   Side yard for corner lot. A side yard along the side street lot line
of a corner lot, which lot abuts in the rear, either directly or across an
alley, the side lot line of another lot in a residence district, shall have a
width of not less than one-half the required depth of the front yard on such
other lot fronting the side street.
   (d)   Lot types and yards illustrated.
Figure 1183 - Lots and Side Yards Illustrated
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c92b507198cac9540f9ff13dca280883e1007fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3854.jpg]
 
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
CHAPTER 1185: FENCES AND YARD PROJECTIONS
Section
1185.01   Projection of architectural features
1185.02   Fences and walls
Cross-reference:
   Fence defined, see §
1133.77
   Frontage and yard modifications, see
Ch. 1183
§ 1185.01 PROJECTION OF ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES.
   Certain architectural features may project into required yards or courts as
follows.
   (a)   Front and side yards. Into any required front yard, or required side
yard adjoining a side street lot line:
      (1)   Cornices, canopies, eaves or other architectural features may
project a distance not exceeding two feet, six inches;
      (2)   Fire escapes may project a distance not exceeding four feet, six
inches;
      (3)   An uncovered stair and necessary landings may project a distance
not to exceed six feet, provided the stair and landing shall not extend above
the entrance floor of the building except for a railing not exceeding three
feet in height;
      (4)   Bay windows, balconies, uncovered porches and chimneys may project
a distance not exceeding three feet, provided that the features do not occupy,
in the aggregate, more than one-third of the length of the building wall on
which they are located; and
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
      (5)   Mailboxes.
         A.   Brick mailboxes are permitted in any zone provided that the
closest edge of the structure is no more than five feet to the edge of
pavement, the structure does not interfere with roadside ditch drainage and a
paved pull-off is provided for postal employee access. If the pull-off is along
a curbed street, the curb must follow the edge of the paved pull-off area.
         B.   Wood or iron break-away mailboxes are permitted provided that
there is a distance of 12 inches to 18 inches from the face of the mailbox to
the vertical plane of the back of curb or edge of pavement if no curb is
present.
         C.   If city maintenance of the right-of-way is needed and the mailbox
is damaged or removed, the restoration of the mailbox shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
         D.   All mailboxes must be installed to the proper height as required
by the United States postal service.
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
   (b)   Interior side yards. Subject to the limitations in division (a)
hereof, the above named features may project into any required side yard
adjoining an interior side lot line, a distance not to exceed one-fifth of the
required least width of the side yard, but not exceeding three feet in any
case.
   (c)   Rear yards. Subject to the limitation in division (b) hereof, the
features named therein may project into any required rear yards the same
distances they are permitted to project into a front yard.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1185.02 FENCES AND WALLS.
   (a)   Height. Fences and walls shall not exceed six feet in height except as
specifically permitted in divisions (e) and (f) hereof.
   (b)   Front yard prohibition. No fence or wall shall be permitted in a front
yard, except that ornamental fences shall be permitted as regulated in this
section.
   (c)   Corner lots. No fence or wall on a corner lot shall extend in front of
the front building line of the property on which it is located. Additionally,
on a corner lot, a fence or wall within 25 feet of an adjacent lot shall not
extend in front of the front building line of the adjacent lot.
   (d)   Ornamental fences in front yards.  Ornamental fences in a front yard
shall not exceed 32 feet in length and four feet in height, and shall not
require a fence permit. In the Downtown Overlay District ornamental fencing may
exceed 32 feet in length and be permitted in the front yard subject to the
standards set forth in §
1170.07(b)(14).
   (e)   Fences surrounding recreational facilities. Fences surrounding
recreational facilities, including, but not limited to, tennis courts, swimming
pools and the like, located on a commonly owned lot in any district, shall be
permitted up to ten feet in height.
   (f)   Fences surrounding utility equipment.
      (1)   Fences or walls surrounding utility or mechanical equipment may be
up to eight feet in height if the fence or wall is necessary to screen the
equipment.
      (2)   In no case shall a wall or a fence, including underground pet
barriers known as “invisible fences,” be located in the right-of-way.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998; Ord. 2015-89, passed 9-28-2015)
   (g)   Construction of fences and walls. Fences and walls may be constructed
out of weather-treated wood, stone, concrete, brick, wrought iron or chain
link. The use of barbed wire on any part of a fence or wall is not allowed
except in conjunction with utility structures and in I-1 and I-2 zones.
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
CHAPTER 1187: SIGN REGULATIONS
Section
1187.01   Statement of purpose
1187.02   General provisions
1187.03   Nonconforming signs
1187.04   Permits
1187.05   Signs authorized without permits
1187.06   Prohibited signs
1187.07   Temporary signs
1187.08   Billboards
1187.09   Signs in the R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-4 Single-Family Residential
Districts
1187.10   Signs in the R-6 Condominium and Landominium and R-7 Multiple Family
Residential Districts
1187.11   Signs in the B-1 Central Business District
1187.12   Signs in the B-2 Shopping Center District; permitted signs
1187.13   Signs in the B-3 Road Service District; permitted signs
1187.14   Signs in the B-4 Private Recreation District
1187.15   Signs in the O-1 Office Park, HT-1 High Tech Light Industrial, I-
1 Light Industrial District and I-2 Industrial District; permitted signs
1187.16   Interstate Highway Sign Overlay Area
Cross-reference:
   Unlawful traffic signs, see §
313.07
Statutory reference:
   Ohio Basic Building Code, see O.A.C. 4101:2-31-02
§ 1187.01 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (a)   It is hereby determined that regulation of the location, size,
placement and certain features of signs is necessary to enable the public to
locate goods, services and facilities without difficulty and confusion, to
promote traffic safety, safeguard public health and welfare and prevent
wasteful use of natural resources in competition among businesses for
attention.
   (b)   In addition, it is the intent of this chapter to assure the continued
attractiveness of the total city environment through the adoption of
discretionary controls designed to preserve scenic, aesthetic, and economic
values within the city. It is further determined that signs lawfully erected
and maintained under the provisions of this chapter are consistent with
customary usage.
   (c)   The standards contained herein are intended to be content neutral
while achieving the following objectives:
      (1)   Recognize the proliferation of signs is unduly distracting to
motorists and non-motorists travelers, reduces the effectiveness of signs
directing and warning the public, causes confusion, reduces desired uniform
traffic flow and creates the potential for vehicular crashes;
      (2)   Prevent signs that are potentially dangerous to the public because
of structural deficiencies or disrepair;
      (3)   Require signs to conform to the city character and scale and reduce
visual pollution caused by a proliferation of signs which could diminish the
city’s image, property values, and quality of life;
      (4)   Recognize that the principal intent of commercial signs, to meet
the purpose of these standards and serve the public interest, should be for
identification of an establishment on the premises, and not for advertising
special events, brand names or off-premise activities; alternative channels of
advertising communication and media are available for advertising that does not
create visual blight and compromise safety of the motoring public;
      (5)   Enable the public to locate goods, services and facilities without
excessive difficulty and confusion by restricting the number and placement of
signs;
      (6)   Prevent placement of signs that will conceal or obscure signs of
adjacent uses;
      (7)   Protect the public right to receive messages, especially
noncommercial messages such as religious, political, economic, social,
philosophical and other types of information protected by the First Amendment
of the United States Constitution
      (8)   Achieve a substantial government interest for public safety,
aesthetics and protection of property values;
      (9)   Maintain and improve the image of the city by encouraging signs
that are compatible with and complimentary to related buildings, uses and
adjacent streets through the establishment of limited discretionary standards
and specific standards for various commercial areas in the city; and
      (10)   To prohibit all signs that are not expressly permitted under this
chapter.
(Ord. 2003-99, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 1187.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (a)   Scope of requirements. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to erect, construct or alter any sign in the city except in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, subject to issuance of a
permit, except as otherwise provided herein.
   (b)   Location; setback requirements.
      (1)   All freestanding signs shall be set back a minimum of ten feet from
the right-of-way as shown on the City of Mason Thoroughfare Plan, unless
otherwise exempted.
      (2)   Signs shall be setback at least three feet from the closest edge of
any parking lot to protect signs from vehicular encroachment.
      (3)   Freestanding signs in nonresidential zoning districts shall be
located no closer than 50 feet to any residential zoning district. Freestanding
signs in residential districts located on a nonresidential property shall be
located no closer than 50 feet to any property line used for residential
purposes.
      (4)   All signs shall comply with §
1171.09.
Figure 1187.02A Sign Setbacks
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c92b507198cac9540f9ff13dca280883e1007fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3858.jpg]
 
   (c)   Construction standards.
      (1)   General requirements. All signs shall be designed and constructed
in a safe and stable manner in accordance with the Building Code and other
applicable codes. All electrical wiring associated with a freestanding sign
shall be installed underground.
      (2)   Framework. All signs shall be designed so that all internal support
framework is contained within the sign or behind the face of the sign or within
the building to which it is attached so as to be totally screened from view.
   (d)   Sign area, setback and height measurements.
      (1)   Sign area measurements. Sign area shall be computed as follows.
         A.   General requirements. Where a sign consists of a generally flat
surface or sign face on which lettering and other information is affixed, the
sign area shall be computed by measuring the entire face of the sign, including
any frame which forms an integral part of the sign display (see
Figure 1187.02B).
         B.   Individual letters. Where a sign consists of individual letters
and logo affixed directly to a building, the area of the sign shall be computed
by measuring the area of the rectangular envelope required to enclose the
lettering and logo.
         C.   Freestanding sign. The area of a freestanding sign shall be
computed by measuring the entire
      vertical surface of a face upon which the letters and logo are attached.
The area of a double-faced freestanding sign shall be computed using only one
face of the sign provided that:
            1.   The outline and dimensions of both faces are identical; and
            2.   The faces are back-to-back so that only one face is visible at
any given time.
Figure 1187.02B Sign Area Measurements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c92b507198cac9540f9ff13dca280883e1007fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3862.jpg]
 
      (2)   Setback and distance measurements. The following guidelines shall
be used to determine compliance with setback and distance measurements.
         A.   The distance between two signs shall be measured along a straight
horizontal line that represents the shortest distance between the two signs.
         B.   The distance between a sign and a parking lot or building shall
be measured along a straight horizontal line that represents the shortest
distance between the sign and the outer edge of the parking lot or building.
         C.   The distance between a sign and a property line shall be measured
along a straight horizontal line that represents the shortest distance between
the sign and property line.
         D.   The distance between a sign and a right-of-way line shall be
measured along a straight horizontal line that represents the shortest distance
between the sign and right-of-way line.
      (3)   Height measurements. Sign height shall be computed as follows.
         A.   The height of a freestanding sign shall be determined by
measuring the vertical distance between the top part of the sign or its
structure or frame, whichever is highest, to the elevation of the ground
directly beneath the sign or the elevation of the street centerline of the road
that the sign fronts on, whichever is lowest (see
Figure 1187.02C). In the event that the sign height is less than allowed under
this chapter due to the differences in elevation between the street centerline
and the ground beneath the proposed sign, the applicant may request a sign
height determination from the Zoning Board of Appeals. The Zoning Board of
Appeal’s determination may not exceed the maximum permitted height of a
freestanding sign as regulated in this chapter.
Figure 1187.02C Freestanding Sigh Height Measurements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c92b507198cac9540f9ff13dca280883e1007fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3868.jpg]
 
         B.   The height of an awning, canopy, marquee, window, wall or
projecting sign shall be determined by measuring the vertical distance between
the top part of the of a sign letter, symbol, panel or frame, whichever is
highest to the elevation of ground underneath the sign (see
Figure 1187.02D).
         C.   Any material whose major function is to provide structural
support for a sign shall be considered part of the sign for purposes of
determining sign height.
Figure 1187.02D Window, Awning, Projecting and Wall Sign Height Measurements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c92b507198cac9540f9ff13dca280883e1007fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3870.jpg]
 
   (e)   Illumination.
      (1)   General requirements. Signs shall be illuminated only by steady,
stationary, shielded light sources directed solely at the sign, or internal to
it, except for all signs located in the B-l Central Business District, which
shall be externally lit.
      (2)   Non-glare, shielded lighting. Use of glaring, unshielded or
undiffused lights or bulbs shall be prohibited. Lights shall be shielded so as
not to project onto adjoining properties or thoroughfares.
      (3)   Traffic hazards.  Sign illumination that could distract motorists
or otherwise create a traffic hazard shall be prohibited.
      (4)   Bare bulb illumination. Illumination by bare bulbs or flames is
prohibited.
      (5)   Intensity. Illumination resulting from all signs and sign lighting
on any property in a nonresidential zoning district shall not exceed one-half
foot candles at a height of five feet when measured at any point on property in
a residential zoning district or at any point on any road right-of-way.
   (f)   Sign design features.
      (1)   The following standards shall apply to all signs.
      (2)   All signs shall be designed, constructed, and maintained so as to
compliment the construction materials and architectural style of the principal
structure on the lot and to prevent nuisances and distractions to motorists.
         A.   Location. Signs shall not cover architectural details such as
arches, transom windows, doors, moldings, columns, capitals, sills, cornices
and similar details.
         B.   Material. Sign materials shall compliment the construction
materials and architectural style of the building facade.
         C.   Lettering style. Lettering style shall be clean and simple to
assure readability (see
Figure 1187.02E).
         D.   Colors. Colors used on any sign should be in harmony with the
building color and architecture.
         E.   Text lines. The amount and number of text and text lines on any
sign should be kept to a minimum to aid in effective communication and to
prevent a nuisance (see Figures
1187.02E and
1187.02F).
Figure 1187.02E Appropriate Lettering Style and Number of Text Lines
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c92b507198cac9540f9ff13dca280883e1007fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3878.jpg]
 
Figure 1187.02F Example Multi-Tenant Ground Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c92b507198cac9540f9ff13dca280883e1007fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3880.jpg]
 
   (g)   Treatment of existing signs.
      (1)   Maintenance.
         A.   Repair and preservation. All signs and sign structures shall be
kept in repair and in a proper state of preservation.
         B.   Sanitation/landscaping. Property surrounding any freestanding
sign shall be kept clean, sanitary and free from obnoxious and offensive
substances, weeds, debris, rubbish and flammable material. All plant materials
and other landscaping surrounding a freestanding sign shall be maintained on a
regular basis, including pruning, mowing, watering, fertilizing and replacement
of dead and diseased materials.
      (2)   Inspection of existing signs. The Building Official shall have the
authority to routinely enter onto property to inspect existing signs for
compliance with this chapter. In conducting the inspections, the Building
Official shall determine whether the sign is compliant with the City Building
Code. The sign owner shall be notified of any defects or deferred maintenance
requiring corrective action in writing.
      (3)   Correction of defects. If any sign reaches a state of disrepair and
is deemed unsightly or unsafe or abandoned by the Zoning Administrator and is
not properly renovated within 30 days, it shall be condemned and an order
issued for its immediate removal by sign erector, owner of the sign, or owner
of the land.
      (4)   Removal of signs.
         A.   Public nuisance. Signs that exhibit a material defect or lapse of
maintenance to an extent that the sign jeopardize public safety shall be deemed
a nuisance by the Building Official or his or her designee and be removed
immediately at the expense of the property owner. The Building Official or his
or her designee may have the sign removed by private contractor. Costs
associated with the sign removal shall be a debt owed to the city by the owner
of the sign. The city may assess the costs to remove the sign on the property
owner’s taxes.
         B.   Abandoned signs. Any sign face or copy that no longer identifies
a business that is in operation, or that identifies an activity or event that
has already occurred, shall be considered abandoned and shall be removed by the
owner, agent or person having use of the building or structure. Upon vacating a
commercial or industrial establishment, the property owner shall be responsible
for removal of all non-permanent signs and sign copy used in conjunction with
the business. The property owner shall paint over painted wall signs so the
original sign is not visible and completely blocked. The entire wall shall be
painted if the color of paint used to block out the painted wall sign does not
match the color of the wall.
         C.   Unlawful signs. Signs that are erected without an approved permit
or erected in a manner different than approved shall be unlawful and removed by
the owner, agent or person having use of the building, structure or unit. The
Zoning Administrator may fine the sign owner or property owner where an
unlawful sign is located as permitted in §
1135.99. The Zoning Administrator may use all remedies provided for by law to
bring the unlawful sign into compliance or to have the sign removed.
         D.   Signs placed in city right-of-way. Signs placed in the city’s
right-of-way without previous approval by City Council will be immediately
removed by the Zoning Administrator. All expenses incurred by the city when
removing the illegally placed signs will be the responsibility of the sign
owner.
(Ord. 2003-99, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 1187.03 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (a)   Any signs erected prior to the enactment of this chapter and not
conforming to the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to be
nonconforming. This shall not prohibit the posting or maintaining in a safe
condition any sign which is nonconforming.
   (b)   Any nonconforming sign which is relocated or replaced shall comply
with all provisions of this chapter.
   (c)   Any nonconforming sign which has not been used for a continuous period
of six months for any reason shall not be rebuilt, re-erected, relocated, or
reused unless or until it is made to comply with the standards of this chapter
and the Building Code.
   (d)   Normal maintenance shall be permitted, provided that any nonconforming
sign that is destroyed by any means to an extent greater than 50% of the sign’s
pre-catastrophe fair market value, exclusive of the foundation, shall not be
reconstructed. Normal maintenance shall include painting of chipped or faded
signs; replacement of faded or damaged surface panels; or repair or replacement
of electrical wiring or electrical devices. A nonconforming sign shall not be
structurally altered to prolong the life of the sign.
(Ord. 2003-99, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 1187.04 PERMITS.
   (a)   Permits required. Building and zoning permits shall be obtained for
erection, construction, enlargement, relocation or modification of any size
sign, as regulated by the Building Department of the city and this chapter.
   (b)   Fee. A permit shall require payment of a fee as set in §
205.01. Permits for sign construction shall expire six months from the date
they are issued. The applicant can request one 30-day extension. The request
for an extension must be filed in writing to the Zoning Administrator at least
15 days prior to the expiration date of the original permit. The fee shall be
one-half the amount required for a new permit.
   (c)   Permit applications. Application for a sign permit shall be made upon
forms provided by the Zoning Administrator. The following information shall be
required:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   Location of the building, structure or lot on which the sign is to
be attached or erected;
      (3)   A plot plan or site plan showing the position of the sign in
relation to the building facade and other existing or proposed improvements on
the property such as parking lots, drives and walkways. Permit applications
submitted for freestanding signs shall also show nearby buildings, structures,
including other signs, property lines, roadways, and adjacent land uses and
zoning within 100 feet of the proposed freestanding sign;
      (4)   A plot plan or site plan showing the sign dimensions, height, area,
materials, colors, lettering as it will appear on the completed sign, method of
construction, method of illumination and method of attachment to the building
or in the ground;
      (5)   Landscaping proposed around freestanding signs including the amount
and type of species utilized. Landscaping shall be designed as to be
proportionate to the size of the sign. All plant materials shall comply with
the Mason Landscape Code;
      (6)   Name and address of the person, firm or corporation owning,
erecting and maintaining the sign;
      (7)   Information concerning required electrical connections and
electrical permits;
      (8)   Written consent of the owner or lessee of the premises upon which
the sign is to be erected; and
      (9)   Other information required by the Zoning Administrator and Building
Department to make the determination that the sign is in compliance with all
applicable laws and regulations.
   (d)   Issuance of a permit. The applicant shall be given a permit by the
Zoning Administrator and Building Department after a complete sign permit
application is submitted for the Zoning Administrator’s and Building
Department’s review. Sign applications that are not complete or do not meet the
minimum standard required in this chapter shall not be approved. The Zoning
Administrator shall send to the applicant a notice of the specific ways in
which the application is deficient, incomplete or not in compliance with this
chapter.
   (e)   Inspection. All signs for which a permit has been issued shall be
inspected by the Zoning Administrator and Building Official when erected.
Approval shall be granted only if the sign has been constructed in compliance
with the approved plans and applicable Zoning Code and Building Code standards.
   (f)   Exceptions. A new permit shall not be required for ordinary servicing
or repainting of an existing sign, cleaning of a sign or changing of the
message on the sign where the sign is designed for the changes (such as
lettering on a marquee or numbers on a gasoline price sign). Replacement of the
plastic face shall be included as an exempt operation provided that it is due
to a change caused by breakage and/or deterioration of the face, but not for
the substitution of a new or different advertiser. Furthermore, a permit shall
not be required for certain signs listed in §
1187.05.
(Ord. 2003-99, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 1187.05 SIGNS AUTHORIZED WITHOUT PERMITS.
   (a)   Government signs for control of traffic and other regulatory purposes,
street signs, warning signs, railroad crossing signs and signs for the purpose
of public safety or signs associated with city government functions;
   (b)   Flags, emblems and insignia of any governmental agency. Lots zoned
residential shall have no more than two flags and one flag pole. Nonresidential
zoned lots shall have no more than four flags and three flag poles;
   (c)   Commemorative or memorial plaques placed by recognized historical
agencies or in association with the city;
   (d)   Two on-site directional signs without commercial messages, logos,
commercial information or other forms of advertising. Directional signs shall
not exceed four square feet in area, or 30 inches in height;
   (e)   Signs that designate a site, building, facility or portion thereof as
barrier-free;
   (f)   Address numbers with a numeral height no greater than six inches for
residences and 12 inches for businesses;
   (g)   Identification signs not to exceed two square feet;
   (h)   Incidental exterior window signs (see definition in §
1133.140), provided that total of all signs shall not exceed four square feet;
   (i)   Real estate and “open house” signs with an area no greater than six
square feet in area advertising the sale, rental or lease of that particular
property;
   (j)   “No Trespassing,” “Help Wanted” and “No Dumping” or similar signs with
an area no greater than two square feet. Signs two square feet or smaller are
allowed without a permit. Applicants wishing to install a sign larger than two
square feet are required to obtain a sign permit;
   (k)   Permanent signs on fuel pumps, automatic teller machines (ATM) or ice
containers or similar devices indicating only the contents and operational
instructions for the devices, provided that the sign area for each device shall
not exceed four square feet;
   (l)   Works of art that do not include a commercial message;
   (m)   Any sign inside a building, not attached to a window or door that is
not legible from a distance of more than three feet beyond the lot line of the
lot or parcel on which the sign is located;
   (n)   Signs required or specifically authorized for a public purpose by any
law, statute or chapter; which may be of any type, number, area, height above
grade, location, illumination or animation, required by the law, statute or
chapter under which the signs are erected; and
   (o)   Traffic control signs on private property, such as “Stop,” “Yield” and
similar signs, the faces of which meet Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices standards and which contain no commercial message of any sort.
(Ord. 2003-99, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 1187.06 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (a)   No signs shall be attached or otherwise applied to trees, bus
shelters, utility poles, benches, trash receptacles, vending machines or any
other unapproved supporting structure or otherwise placed in the public right-
of-way, except signs that meet the standards of the Ohio Manual of Uniform
Traffic Control Devices or as approved by City Council;
   (b)   Pennants, streamers, festoons, spinners, balloons, balloon signs and
similar type devices;
   (c)   No sign shall emit audible sounds including messages, announcements,
music or sirens and the like;
   (d)   Signs which are not securely affixed to the ground or otherwise
affixed in a permanent manner to an approved supporting structure, except where
permitted under this chapter;
   (e)   Projecting signs, except in the B-1 Central Business District. No
projecting sign shall extend above the wall or parapet of a building to which
it is affixed;
   (f)   All blinking, flashing or intermittent lighting;
   (g)   Moving, revolving or rotating signs;
   (h)   Off-premise advertising signs except where expressly permitted in this
chapter;
   (i)   Roof signs;
   (j)   Portable signs, except where expressly permitted in this chapter;
   (k)   Any sign which makes use of the words “Stop,” “Look” or “Danger,” or
any other words, phrases, symbols or characters, in a manner as to interfere
with, mislead or confuse traffic;
   (l)   Any sign containing obscene, indecent or immoral matter;
   (m)   Real estate signs no longer valid due to the sale, rental or lease of
the property;
   (n)   String lights used for commercial purposes, other than holiday
decorations which must be mounted on the principal structure on the lot;
   (o)   Signs affixed to a parked motor vehicle or trailer which is being used
principally for advertising purposes, rather than for transportation purposes,
on public or private property;
   (p)   Any sign not expressly permitted;
   (q)   Abandoned signs;
   (r)   The tacking, pasting or otherwise affixing of signs of a miscellaneous
character, visible from a public way, located on the walls of buildings, barns,
sheds, on trees, poles, posts, fences or other structures is prohibited unless
otherwise permitted by this chapter;
   (s)   The permanent use of searchlights shall be prohibited. Searchlights
shall be considered temporary signage;
   (t)   LED and electronic message boards, except as otherwise permitted for
electronic gasoline price signs in the B-2, Shopping Center District, and the
B-3, Road Service Commercial District;
   (u)   Temporary signs with changeable copy;
   (v)   Neon signs where the tubing is exposed on all sides; and
   (w)   Portable changeable copy signs.
(Ord. 2003-99, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 2015-89, passed 9-28-2015)
§ 1187.07 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (a)   Temporary signs shall be located on the premises to which they refer,
except as permitted in division (d) below of this section.
   (b)   Temporary signs shall not be illuminated.
   (c)   Temporary signs shall be permitted as specified in the Temporary Sign
Standards Table, except as permitted in division (d) below of this section.
Table 1187.07 Temporary Sign Standards
Type of   District  Type of   Maximum Maximum Maximum Permit   Required Permitted
Temporary (s)       Sign      Size    Height  Number  Required Setback  Duration
Sign      Permitted Permitted
Table 1187.07 Temporary Sign Standards
Type of     District   Type of   Maximum Maximum Maximum Permit   Required Permitted
Temporary   (s)        Sign      Size    Height  Number  Required Setback  Duration
Sign        Permitted  Permitted
Real estate
- sale or                                                                  Remove
lease of    Residen-             6 sq.                                     within 30
individual  tial       Ground    ft.     4 ft.   l[b]    No       [d][h]   days of
home or                                                                    sale or
residential                                                                lease
lot
Real estate                                                                Remove
- sale or   Retail                                                         within 30
lease of    Office     Ground    32 sq.  10 ft.  l[b]    Yes      [d][h]   days of
individual  Industrial Wall      ft.                                       sale or
business or                                                                lease
vacant lot
Real estate                                                                Remove
- sale or                        32 sq.                                    within 30
lease of    All        Ground    ft.     10 ft.  1[b]    Yes      [d][h]   days of
unplatted                                                                  sale or
vacant land                                                                lease
                                                                           Remove
                                                                           within 30
Construc-                                                                  days
tion/real              Ground    32 sq.                                    after 90%
estate      All        Wall      ft.     10 ft.  l[c]    Yes      [d][h]   of all
develop-                                                                   units or
ment sign                                                                  lots are
                                                                           sold or
                                                                           leased
Garage sale Residen-   Ground    6 sq.                                     7
sign        tial       Wall      ft.     4 ft.   1       No       [d][h]   consecu-
                                                                           tive days
Promotion-                                                                 4 permits
al and                           32 sq.                                    per year
information All [i]    [e]       ft.     [e]     1       Yes      [a][h]   not to
signs                                                                      exceed 15
                                                                           days each
                       Paper
Window sign Business   Paint     [f]     [f]     [f]     No       —      [g]
                       Plastic
                       Fabric
Footnotes:
[a]   The temporary sign shall comply with the setback requirements for the district
in which it is located.
[b]   On a corner parcel two signs, one facing each street, shall be permitted.
[c]   One sign shall be permitted for each frontage on a secondary or major
thoroughfare.
[d]   The temporary sign may be located in the required setback area, but shall not
be located within the road right-of-way.
[e]   Promotional signs may include ground or wall signs, subject to obtaining a
permit from the Zoning Administrator. Streamers, pennants or similar displays may be
permitted subject to Zoning Board of Appeals approval.
[f]   The total area of all temporary window signs shall not exceed ten square feet.
The total area of all window signs, temporary and permanent, shall not exceed 50% of
the total window area.
[g]   Temporary window signs that are faded, yellowed, ripped or otherwise damaged
shall be removed immediately.
[h]   All temporary signs shall comply with §
1171.09.
[i]   Promotional signage in residential districts permitted on nonresidential uses
only.
 
(Ord. 2004-15, passed 3-8-2004)
   (d)   Temporary signs for community events sponsored in whole or in part by
the city.
      (1)   Signs for community events on city property.
         A.   The event must be sponsored in whole or in part by a city agency
such as Parks and Recreation, Fire Department or Police Department.
         B.   The event must take place on the city property, including the
community center facility.
         C.   Only one sign at the event location is permitted to list sponsors
other than the city. Signs not at the event location are not permitted to
include sponsors other than the city, except for a single co-sponsor having a
typeface smaller than that used for the city and the title of the event.
Commercial advertisements are not permitted.
         D.   Signs are permitted at all city property locations, with a
maximum size of 32 square feet, for up to 15 days. Signs are permitted for only
one event at a time at any one location.
      (2)   Signs for community center events at the Community Center.
         A.   The event must be sponsored in whole or in part by a city agency
such as Parks and Recreation, Fire Department or Police Department.
         B.   The event must take place on city property, including the
Community Center facility.
         C.   Only one sign at the event location on Lakeside Drive is
permitted to list sponsors other than the city. Signs not at the event location
are not permitted to include sponsors other than the city, except for a single
co-sponsor having a type-face smaller than that used for the city and the title
of the event. Commercial advertisements are not permitted.
         D.   Additional signs of up to 32 square feet are permitted on the
Municipal Center frontage on Mason-Montgomery Road and in the parks, for up to
15 days. Signs are permitted for only one event at a time at any one location.
      (3)   Signs for community events not on city property.
         A.   Event must be sponsored in whole or in part by a city agency such
as Parks and Recreation, Fire Department or Police Department.
         B.   The city must control the dates and times of the individual
events. Seasonal sports and sign-ups for sports teams and programs not
administered by the city are not included.
         C.   A maximum of six signs are permitted along city thoroughfares and
in the parks, for a maximum of 32 square feet for up to 15 days. Signs are
permitted for only one event at a time at any one location and all signs must
have the permission of the property owner.
      (4)   Right-of-way. All temporary signs for community events must be out
of the right-of-way and maintain the unobstructed sight distance in §
1171.09. Events not sponsored by the city, but taking place on city property
must meet the temporary sign regulations in divisions (a) through (c) above of
this section and
Table 1187.07. Fees and permits are not required for temporary signs for
community events that qualify for this division (d) of this section.
(Ord. 2003-99, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 1187.08 BILLBOARDS.
   (a)   Generally. A billboard is an off-premise advertising sign permitted in
business and industrial districts located adjacent to an interstate highway.
Billboards shall not be located on or over the roofs of buildings.
   (b)   Standards.
      (1)   Maximum size. No billboard sign shall exceed 400 square feet in
area per sign. Each billboard sign shall have no more than one sign face. No
more than one product, business, message and/or event shall be advertised on
any billboard sign face.
      (2)   Maximum height. The maximum height for such signs shall be equal to
the height restrictions set for principal structures within the zoning district
in which it is located.
      (3)   Setbacks.
         A.   Highway right-of-way. No billboard sign shall be erected or
maintained within 660 feet of the edge of the right-of-way of an interstate or
state highway.
         B.   Property lines. Billboard signs shall comply with the building
setback requirements for the district in which they are located.
         C.   Noncompatible use or structure. No part of any billboard sign
shall be located closer than 500 feet to any residential dwelling unit,
residential zoning district, park, school, church, hospital, cemetery,
government building or interstate interchange.
         D.   Distance between billboards. There shall be a minimum of 2,000
feet between billboard signs. Only one billboard sign may be located on either
side of an interstate or state highway for each 2,000 foot segment, including
billboard signs in adjacent governmental jurisdictions.
         E.   Distance between billboards and on-premise signs. There shall be
a minimum of 250 feet between any billboard sign and any on-premise sign.
      (4)   Content. Each face of the billboard sign shall exhibit no more than
two pictorials and/or two written messages about one use, product, service,
goods, event or facility located on other premises. No face of a sign shall be
so designed as to give the impression of more than two signs.
      (5)   Billboard not used for advertising purposes. Any billboard sign not
in use for advertising purposes shall have unused surfaces kept uniformly white
in color overall. However, the owner of the sign shall be permitted to place a
phone number on it to which inquiries for advertisement may be directed.
      (6)   Additional requirements. All outdoor advertising signs shall comply
with all applicable requirements and conditions to the Ohio Revised Code and
Ohio Administrative Code for advertising device control.
(Ord. 2003-99, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 1187.09 SIGNS IN THE R-1, R-2, R-3 AND R-4 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS.
   (a)   Permitted signs.  The following signs shall be permitted in
residential zoning districts.
      (1)   Signs without a permit. Signs permitted without a permit, such as a
name plate sign and street address, are allowed subject to the provisions of §
1187.05.
      (2)   Temporary signs. Real estate signs and other temporary signs shall
be permitted in accordance with §
1187.07.
      (3)   Residential entranceway or identification signs. Permanent
residential entranceway or identification signs shall be permitted in
accordance with the following regulations.
         A.   There shall be no more than one sign located at each entrance to
a subdivision or other residential development. The sign shall display the name
of the development only. Names of developers, homebuilders or contractors shall
not be displayed anywhere on the sign.
         B.   Sign materials shall compliment the construction materials and
architectural style of the houses within the subdivision. Landscaping shall be
provided to create an aesthetically pleasing and safe identification for the
residential development.
         C.   Entranceway structures shall not exceed eight feet in height.
         D.   Entranceway signs shall be externally illuminated.
         E.   All freestanding signs shall comply with the setback and location
requirements of §
1187.02.
      (4)   Home occupation signs.
         A.   No more than one nonilluminated sign shall be allowed for each
home occupation. The sign shall be located on the facade of the structure in
which the home occupation is conducted or on the mailbox of the residence
provided that the mailbox is on or abuts the residence where the home
occupation is located.
         B.   The sign shall display only the name and occupation of the
residents on the premises.
         C.   Signs placed on the facade of the structure where the home
occupation is located shall have no more than one face, nor shall the sign face
exceed three square feet in area. Signs placed on the mailbox shall not exceed
one square foot in area.
   (b)   Signs permitted for nonresidential uses in residential districts.
Nonresidential uses in residential districts, such as schools, colleges, public
parks, museums, municipal buildings, churches and country clubs shall be
permitted to erect the following signage.
      (1)   Signs without a permit. Signs permitted without a permit, such as a
name plate sign and street address, are allowed subject to the provisions of §
1187.05.
      (2)   Temporary signs. Real estate signs and other temporary signs shall
be permitted in accordance with §
1187.07.
      (3)   Ground mounted signs including bulletin boards.
         A.   Size. There shall be no more than one ground mounted sign per
road frontage for a maximum number of two ground mounted signs per lot. The
total area of the permitted ground mounted sign adjacent to a local or
collector street shall not exceed 16 square feet. The total area of the
permitted ground mounted sign adjacent to a minor or major arterial street
shall not exceed 64 square feet.
         B.   Setbacks. Ground mounted signs shall be set back as required in §
1187.02(b).
         C.   Height. The maximum height of any ground mounted sign facing a
local or collector street shall be six feet. The maximum height of any ground
mounted sign facing a minor or major arterial street shall be eight feet.
         D.   Landscaping. A landscaping area around the base of the ground
mounted sign shall be provided equal to the area of the sign face, A mixture of
live plant material shall be provided in the landscape area and should include
a combination of shrubs, annuals and perennials to create a pleasing
identification for the development it advertises.
         E.   Lighting. Ground mounted signs shall be externally lit with
shielded and diffused lights.
      (4)   Wall signs.
         A.   Size. There shall be no more than one wall sign per parcel. The
total area of wall sign shall not exceed one square foot per linear foot of
building frontage, not to exceed 32 square feet in area.
         B.   Location. Wall signs shall be permitted only on the side of a
building which faces the front lot line. Wall signs shall be mounted on a flush
surface.
         C.   Height. The top of a wall sign shall not be higher than 15 feet.
(Ord. 2003-99, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 1187.10 SIGNS IN THE R-6 CONDOMINIUM AND LANDOMINIUM AND R-7 MULTIPLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (a)   Permitted signs.
      (1)   Signs without a permit. Signs permitted without a permit, such as a
name plate sign and street address, are allowed subject to the provisions of §
1187.05.
      (2)   Temporary signs. Real estate signs and other temporary signs shall
be permitted in accordance with §
1187.07.
      (3)   Residential entranceway or identification signs. Permanent
residential entranceway or identification signs shall be permitted in
accordance with the following regulations.
         A.   There shall be no more than one sign located at each entrance to
a subdivision or other residential development. The sign shall display the name
of the development only. Names of developers, homebuilders or contractors shall
not be displayed anywhere on the sign.
         B.   Sign materials shall compliment the construction materials and
architectural style of the houses within the subdivision. Landscaping shall be
provided to create an aesthetically pleasing and safe identification for the
residential development.
         C.   Entranceway structures shall not exceed eight feet in height.
         D.   Entranceway signs shall be externally illuminated.
         E.   All ground mounted signs shall comply with the setback and
location requirements of §
1187.02.
      (4)   Home occupation signs.
         A.   Permits for home occupation signs shall be issued by the Zoning
Administrator.
         B.   Home occupation signs shall be limited to signs placed on the
facade of the structure in which the home occupation is conducted.
         C.   No more than one nonilluminated sign shall be allowed for each
home occupation. The sign shall display only the name and occupation of the
residents on the premises.
         D.   No sign for a home occupation shall have more than one face, nor
shall any sign face exceed one square feet in area.
      (5)   Management office identification. Rental or management offices in
the residential district shall be permitted one identification sign not to
exceed six square feet in area.
   (b)   Signs permitted for nonresidential uses in residential districts.
Nonresidential uses in residential districts, such as schools, public parks,
colleges, museums, municipal buildings, churches and country clubs shall be
permitted to erect the following signage.
      (1)   Signs without a permit. Signs permitted without a permit, such as a
name plate sign and street address, are allowed subject to the provisions of §
1187.05.
      (2)   Temporary signs. Real estate signs and other temporary signs shall
be permitted in accordance with §
1187.07.
      (3)   Ground mounted signs including bulletin boards.
         A.   Size. There shall be no more than one ground mounted sign per
road frontage for a maximum number of two ground mounted signs per lot. The
total area of the permitted ground mounted sign adjacent to a local or
collector street shall not exceed 16 square feet. The total area of the
permitted ground mounted sign adjacent to a minor or major arterial street
shall not exceed 64 square feet.
         B.   Setbacks. Ground mounted signs shall be set back as required in §
1187.02(b).
         C.   Height. The maximum height of any ground mounted sign facing a
local or collector street shall be six feet. The maximum height of any ground
mounted sign facing a minor or major arterial street shall be eight feet.
         D.   Landscaping. A landscaping area around the base of the ground
mounted sign shall be provided equal to the area of the sign face. A mixture of
live plant material shall be provided in the landscape area and should include
a combination of shrubs, annuals and perennials to create a pleasing
identification for the development it advertises.
         E.   Lighting. Ground mounted signs shall be externally lit with
shielded and diffused lights.
      (4)   Wall signs.
         A.   Size. There shall be no more than one wall sign per parcel. The
total area of wall sign shall not exceed one square foot per linear foot of
building frontage, not to exceed 32 square feet in area.
         B.   Location. Wall signs shall be permitted only on the side of a
building which faces the front lot line. Wall signs shall be mounted on a flush
surface.
         C.   Height. The top of a wall sign shall not be higher than 15 feet.
(Ord. 2003-99, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 1187.11 SIGNS IN THE B-1 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (a)   Number. No more than two sign types shall be allowed per lot.
   (b)   Permitted signs. Awning, wall, projecting and ground mounted signs are
permitted in the B-1 District.
      (1)   Signs for residential uses in a nonresidential district. Signs for
nonconforming residential uses in nonresidential districts shall be governed by
the sign regulations for residential district uses set forth in §
1187.09 or §
1187.10.
      (2)   Signs without a permit. Signs permitted without a permit, such as a
name plate sign and street address, are allowed subject to the provisions of §
1187.05.
      (3)   Temporary signs. Real estate signs and other temporary signs shall
be permitted in accordance with §
1187.07.
      (4)   Wall signs.
         A.   Number and location. One wall sign shall be permitted per street
frontage on each parcel for a maximum of two wall signs per parcel, except one
additional wall sign shall be permitted on the side of the structure that does
not have road frontage but does face a side or rear parking lot. Wall signs
shall be mounted on a flush surface.
         B.   Size. The total area of a wall sign shall not exceed one square
foot per lineal foot of building frontage not to exceed 32 square feet for wall
signs facing a street right-of-way and wall signs facing a side or rear parking
lot shall not exceed 18 square feet.
         C.   Vertical dimensions. The maximum vertical dimension of any wall
sign shall not exceed 30% of the building height.
         D.   Horizontal dimensions. The maximum horizontal dimension of any
wall-mounted sign shall not exceed 75% of the width of the building.
         E.   Height. The top of a wall sign shall not be higher than whichever
is lowest:
            1.   The maximum height specified for the district in which the
sign is located;
            2.   The top of the sills at the first level of windows above the
first story; or
            3.   The height of the building facing the street on which the sign
is located.
      (5)   Ground mounted signs.
         A.   Number. One ground mounted sign shall be permitted per parcel.
         B.   Size. The total area of the ground mounted sign shall not exceed
one square foot per lineal foot of building frontage, not to exceed 36 square
feet.
         C.   Height. The height of a ground mounted sign shall not exceed six
feet in height.
         D.   Setbacks. All ground mounted signs shall comply with the setback
and location requirements of §
1187.02, except for §
1187.02(b)(l).
         E.   Landscaping. A landscaping area around the base of the ground
mounted sign shall be provided equal to the area of the sign face. A mixture of
live plant material shall be provided in the landscape area and should include
a combination of shrubs, annuals and perennials to create a pleasing
identification for the development it advertises.
         F.   Street address. The street address number shall be clearly
displayed on the sign in numerals not less than four inches or no more than
eight inches in height. Required street address numbers are not counted in the
total area of the sign.
      (6)   Projecting sign.
         A.   Number. One projecting sign shall be permitted per parcel.
         B.   Size. The total area of the projecting sign shall not exceed six
square feet for one-story structures and eight square feet for two-story
structures. The opposite sign face shall not be counted in the total sign area
if both sign faces are an exact replica. The opposite faces of a projecting
sign shall not be separated by more than four inches.
         C.   Height. A projecting sign shall be attached to the building so
that no part of the sign or sign support structure is less than eight feet from
the surface of the established grade under the sign. No part of a projecting
sign or sign support structure shall be more than 15 feet above the surface of
the established grade under the sign.
         D.   Sign overhang into public right-of-way. A projecting sign may
protrude into the air space over a public sidewalk by not more than three and
one-half feet. However, in no event shall the projecting sign obstruct the
movement of vehicles or vision of vehicle drivers or vision of pedestrians so
as to create a public safety hazard. In the event that a projecting sign will
create a hazard even though the overhang is three feet or less, the sign design
or sign location must be adjusted to eliminate the potential hazard. Projecting
signs shall be set back a minimum of six feet from any curb.
         E.   Maximum distance from wall of building. The nearest edge of a
projecting sign shall be located no further than six inches from the wall of
the building where the projecting sign is anchored.
         F.   Lighting. The projecting sign shall not be internally
illuminated. Any lighting for the sign shall be from an external source.
External lighting shall be properly shielded and directed so that glare from
the light source will not create a visual hazard for vehicles or create a
visual nuisance for occupants of nearby dwellings, particularly dwellings
located on upper floors of downtown buildings.
      (7)   Awnings and canopies.
         A.   Coverage. The total area of the lettering and logo shall not
exceed 25% of the total area of the awning or canopy that would be visible in a
drawing of a facade on which the awning is located.
         B.   Compliance with size requirements for wall signs. The area of
signs on awnings or canopies shall be counted in determining compliance with
the standards for total area of wall signs permitted on the parcel.
         C.   Height. An awning sign shall be attached to the building so that
no part of the awning or awning support structure is less than eight feet from
the surface of the established grade under the sign. No part of an awning sign
or support structure shall be more than 12 feet above the surface of the
established grade under the awning sign.
         D.   Maximum projection. An awning or canopy sign can project out from
the wall to which it is attached no more than four feet.
         E.   Sign overhang into public right-of-way. An awning sign may
protrude into the air space over a public sidewalk but they can be located no
closer than six feet to any curb. However, in no event shall the awning sign
obstruct the movement of vehicles or vision of vehicle drivers or vision of
pedestrians so as to create a public safety hazard. In the event that a
projecting sign will create a hazard, the awning sign design or location must
be adjusted to eliminate the potential hazard.
         F.   Lighting. Internally lighted canopies and awnings are prohibited.
      (8)   Window signs. Temporary, incidental, and permanent window signs
shall be permitted on the inside in business districts provided that the total
combined area of such signs shall not exceed 50% of the total window area.
Window signs shall be kept in good repair. Faded, curled, or partially attached
window signs are shall be removed.
      (9)   Folding portable. One 20-inch wide by 30-inch tall folding portable
sign is permitted per lot provide that the folding portable sign is located on
private property completely out of the public right-of-way. Folding portable
signs shall be displayed only when the business it advertises is open.
(Ord. 2003-99, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 1187.12 SIGNS IN THE B-2 SHOPPING CENTER DISTRICT; PERMITTED SIGNS.
   (a)   Signs without a permit. Signs permitted without a permit, such as a
name plate sign and street address, are allowed subject to the provisions of §
1187.05.
   (b)   Temporary signs. Real estate signs and other temporary signs shall be
permitted in accordance with §
1187.07.
   (c)   Wall signs.
      (1)   Number and locations. One wall sign shall be permitted per street
frontage on each parcel for a maximum of two wall signs per parcel. In the case
of a multi-tenant building or shopping center, one wall sign shall be permitted
for each tenant having an individual means of public access. Only one wall sign
shall be permitted where several tenants use a common entrance in a multi-
tenant structure, but the total sign area may be allocated on an equal basis to
all tenants provided that the total wall sign area does not exceed that allowed
for a single tenant building or 64 square feet. Wall signs shall be mounted on
a flush surface.
      (2)   Size.
         A.   Single-tenant building. The total area of a wall sign shall not
exceed one square foot per lineal foot of building frontage not to exceed 64
square feet.
         B.   Multi-tenant building. The total area of a wall sign shall not
exceed one square foot per lineal foot of building frontage not to exceed 48
square feet. The center of the wall sign shall be placed in the center of the
unit on which it is affixed.
         C.   Height. The top of a wall sign shall not be higher than whichever
is lowest:
            1.   The maximum height specified for the district in which the
sign is located; or
            2.   The height of the building facing the street on which the sign
is located.
   (d)   Ground mounted signs.
      (1)   Number. One ground mounted sign shall be permitted per parcel. In
multi-tenant buildings or shopping centers the sign area may be allocated for
use by individual tenants.
      (2)   Size.
         A.   Single-tenant building. The total area of the ground mounted sign
shall not exceed 80 square feet.
         B.   Multi-tenant building. The total area of the ground mounted sign
shall not exceed 120 square feet.
      (3)   Height.
         A.   Single-tenant building. The height of a ground mounted sign in a
B-2 District shall not exceed eight feet in height advertising a single- tenant
building.
         B.   Multi-tenant building. The height of a ground mounted sign in a
B-2 District shall not exceed eight feet in height advertising a multi-tenant
building.
      (4)   Setbacks. All ground mounted signs shall comply with the setback
and location requirements of §
1187.02.
      (5)   Landscaping. A landscaping area around the base of the ground
mounted sign shall be provided equal to the area of the sign face. A mixture of
live plant material shall be provided in the landscape area and should include
a combination of shrubs, annuals and perennials to create a pleasing
identification for the development it advertises.
      (6)   Street address. The street address number shall be clearly
displayed on the sign in numerals not less than six inches or no more than 12
inches in height. Required street address numbers are not counted in the total
area of the sign.
      (7)   Gasoline price signs. One gasoline price sign with either manual or
electronic changeable copy shall be permitted to be displayed provided that the
gasoline price sign is integrated with a ground mounted sign and shall not
exceed 25 square feet in area. The area of a gasoline price sign shall be
included in the maximum area allowed for a ground mounted sign. Electronic
gasoline price signs shall also be subject to the following restrictions:
         A.   The electronic gasoline price numbers shall not exceed 12 inches
in height.
         B.   Electronic gasoline price signs are not permitted on fuel
canopies.
         C.   Electronic gasoline price signs shall use light emitting diode
(LED) technology that displays the appearance of a single color.
         D.   Electronic gasoline price signs shall come equipped with
automatic dimming capabilities and shall automatically dim to a corresponding
reduction in ambient light. In no instance shall the electronic gasoline price
sign cause light trespass onto an adjacent residential district or use.
         E.   The maximum daytime brightness shall be 7500 nits and the maximum
nighttime brightness shall be 500 nits.
         F.   Electronic gasoline price signs shall be static and may not
display animated, scrolling, moving, or flashing messages or video.
   (e)   Marquee signs. Marquee signs shall be permitted for theaters located
in the B-2 District subject to the following requirements.
      (1)   Message. The written message shall be affixed flat to the vertical
face of the marquee.
      (2)   Vertical clearance. A minimum vertical clearance of ten feet shall
be provided beneath any marquee.
      (3)   Setbacks. Marquee signs shall comply with the setback requirements
for the B-2 District and §
1187.02.
      (4)   Number. One marquee sign shall be permitted per lot.
   (f)   Awnings and canopies.
      (1)   Coverage. The total area of the lettering and logo shall not exceed
25% of the total area of the awning or canopy that would be visible in a
drawing of a facade on which the awning is located.
      (2)   Compliance with size requirements for wall signs. The area of signs
on awnings or canopies shall be counted in determining compliance with the
standards for the total area of wall signs permitted on the parcel.
      (3)   Height. An awning sign shall be attached to the building so that no
part of the awning or awning support structure is less than seven feet from the
surface of the established grade under the sign. No part of an awning sign or
support structure shall be more than 12 feet above the surface of the
established grade under the awning sign.
      (4)   Maximum projection. An awning or canopy sign can project out from
the wall to which it is attached no more than six feet.
      (5)   Lighting. Internally lighted canopies and awnings are prohibited.
   (g)   Window signs. Temporary, incidental and permanent window signs shall
be permitted on the inside in business districts provided that the total
combined area of the signs shall not exceed 40% of the total window area.
(Ord. 2003-99, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 2015-89, passed 9-28-2015)
§ 1187.13 SIGNS IN THE B-3 ROAD SERVICE DISTRICT; PERMITTED SIGNS.
   (a)   Signs without a permit. Signs permitted without a permit, such as a
name plate sign and street address, are allowed subject to the provisions of §
1187.05.
   (b)   Temporary signs. Real estate signs and other temporary signs shall be
permitted in accordance with §
1187.07.
   (c)   Wall signs.
      (1)   Number and location. One wall sign shall be permitted per street
frontage on each parcel for a maximum of two wall signs per parcel. In the case
of a multi-tenant building or shopping center, one wall sign shall be permitted
for each tenant having an individual means of public access. Only one wall sign
shall be permitted where several tenants use a common entrance in a multi-
tenant structure, but the total sign area may be allocated on an equal basis to
all tenants provided that the total wall sign area does not exceed that allowed
for a single tenant building or 80 square feet. Wall signs shall be mounted on
a flush surface.
      (2)   Size.
         A.   Single-tenant building. The total area of a wall sign shall not
exceed one and one-half square foot per lineal foot of building frontage not to
exceed 80 square feet.
         B.   Multi-tenant building. The total area of a wall sign shall not
exceed one and one-half square foot per lineal foot of building frontage not to
exceed 64 square feet. The center of the wall sign shall be placed in the
center of the unit on which it is affixed.
         C.   Height. The top of a wall sign shall not be higher than whichever
is lowest:
            1.   The maximum height specified for the district in which the
sign is located; or
            2.   The height of the building facing the street on which the sign
is located.
   (d)   Ground mounted signs.
      (1)   Number. One ground mounted sign shall be permitted per street
frontage on each parcel provided that access is provided to the parcel via a
curb cut and drive on each street frontage. However, only one sign shall be
permitted on lots having frontage on more than one street if a single sign can
be located such that it is visible from both streets. In multi-tenant buildings
or shopping centers the sign area may be allocated for use by individual
tenants.
      (2)   Size.
         A.   Single-tenant building. The total area of the ground mounted sign
shall not exceed one square feet per lineal foot of lot-frontage, not to exceed
80 square feet.
         B.   Multi-tenant building. The total area of the ground mounted sign
shall not exceed one square feet per lineal foot of lot-frontage, not to exceed
120 square feet.
      (3)   Height.
         A.   Single-tenant building. The height of a ground mounted sign in a
B-3 District shall not exceed six feet in height advertising a single tenant
building.
         B.   Multi-tenant building. The height of a ground mounted sign in a
B-3 District shall not exceed ten feet in height advertising a multi-tenant
building.
      (4)   Setbacks. All ground mounted signs shall comply with the setback
and location requirements of §
1187.02.
      (5)   Landscaping. A landscaping area around the base of the ground
mounted sign shall be provided equal to the area of the sign face. A mixture of
live plant material shall be provided in the landscape area and should include
a combination of shrubs, annuals and perennials to create a pleasing
identification for the development it advertises.
      (6)   Street address. The street address number shall be clearly
displayed on the sign in numerals not less than six inches or no more than 12
inches in height. Required street address numbers are not counted in the total
area of the sign.
      (7)   Gasoline price signs. One gasoline price sign with either manual or
electronic changeable copy shall be permitted to be displayed provided that the
gasoline price sign is integrated with a ground mounted sign and shall not
exceed 25 square feet in area. The area of a gasoline price sign shall be
included in the maximum area allowed for a ground mounted sign. Electronic
gasoline price signs shall also be subject to the following restrictions:
         A.   The electronic gasoline price numbers shall not exceed 12 inches
in height.
         B.   Electronic gasoline price signs are not permitted on fuel
canopies.
         C.   Electronic gasoline price signs shall use light emitting diode
(LED) technology that displays the appearance of a single color.
         D.   Electronic gasoline price signs shall come equipped with
automatic dimming capabilities and shall automatically dim to a corresponding
reduction in ambient light. In no instance shall the electronic gasoline price
sign cause light trespass onto an adjacent residential district or use.
         E.   The maximum daytime brightness shall be 7500 nits and the maximum
nighttime brightness shall be 500 nits.
         F.   Electronic gasoline price signs shall be static and may not
display animated, scrolling, moving, or flashing messages or video.
   (e)   Marquee signs. Marquee signs shall be permitted for theaters located
in the B-3 District subject to the following requirements.
      (1)   Message. The written message shall be affixed flat to the vertical
face of the marquee.
      (2)   Vertical clearance. A minimum vertical clearance of ten feet shall
be provided beneath any marquee.
      (3)   Setbacks. Marquee signs shall comply with the setback requirements
for the B-3 District and §
1187.02.
      (4)   Number. One marquee shall be permitted per lot.
   (f)   Awnings and canopies. Signs on awnings and canopies in commercial and
industrial districts shall be permitted, subject to the following standards.
      (1)   Coverage. The total area of the lettering and logo shall not exceed
25% of the total area of the awning or canopy that would be visible in a
drawing of a facade on which the awning is located.
      (2)   Compliance with size requirements for wall signs. The area of signs
on awnings or canopies shall be counted in determining compliance with the
standards for total area of wall signs permitted on the parcel.
      (3)   Height. An awning sign shall be attached to the building so that no
part of the awning or awning support structure is less than seven feet from the
surface of the established grade under the sign. No part of an awning sign or
support structure shall be more than 12 feet above the surface of the
established grade under the awning sign.
      (4)   Maximum projection. An awning or canopy sign can project out from
the wall to which it is attached no more than six feet.
      (5)   Lighting. Internally lighted canopies and awnings are prohibited.
   (g)   Window signs. Temporary, incidental, and permanent window signs shall
be permitted on the inside in business districts provided that the total
combined area of such signs shall not exceed 30% of the total window area.
(Ord. 2003-99, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 2015-89, passed 9-28-2015)
§ 1187.14 SIGNS IN THE B-4 PRIVATE RECREATION DISTRICT.
   (a)   Generally. This section regulates signs advertising private recreation
establishments that are directed toward and seen from adjacent public road
right-of-ways.
   (b)   Permitted signs. Private recreational signs located internal to the
private recreational establishment shall be exempt from these regulations
unless any sign causes a distraction or nuisance on adjacent public rights-of-
way.
      (1)   Signs without a permit. Signs permitted without a permit, such as a
name plate sign and street address, are allowed subject to the provisions of §
1187.05.
      (2)   Temporary signs. Real estate signs and other temporary signs shall
be permitted in accordance with §
1187.07.
      (3)   Wall signs.
         A.   Number. One wall sign shall be permitted per street frontage on
each parcel.
         B.   Size. The total area of a wall sign shall not exceed one square
foot per lineal foot of building frontage not to exceed 100 square feet.
         C.   Height. The maximum height specified for the district in which
the sign is located.
      (4)   Freestanding signs.
         A.   Number. One freestanding sign shall be permitted per street
frontage on each parcel.
         B.   Size. The total area of the freestanding sign shall not exceed
one square foot per lineal foot of lot-frontage, not to exceed 500 square feet.
         C.   Height. The height of a freestanding sign a B-4 District shall
not exceed 12 feet in height for each 1,000 lineal feet of lot frontage not to
exceed 84 feet in height.
(Ord. 2004-155, passed 1-10-2005)
         D.   Setbacks. All freestanding signs shall comply with the setback
and location requirements of §
1187.02.
(Ord. 2003-99, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 1187.15 SIGNS IN THE O-1 OFFICE PARK, HT-1 HIGH TECH LIGHT INDUSTRIAL, I-
1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT AND I-2 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT; PERMITTED SIGNS.
   (a)   Signs without a permit. Signs permitted without a permit, such as a
name plate sign and street address, are allowed subject to the provisions of §
1187.05.
   (b)   Temporary signs. Real estate signs and other temporary signs shall be
permitted in accordance with §
1187.07.
   (c)   Wall signs.
      (1)   Single tenant building. One wall sign shall be permitted per street
frontage per parcel and may be located on any building wall. The total area of
each wall sign shall not exceed one square foot per lineal foot of building
frontage, not to exceed 200 square feet; except for wall signs that face
residentially zoned property shall not exceed 100 square feet. One additional
wall sign shall be permitted for each side of the structure that does not have
road frontage but does have a public entrance or faces a side or rear parking
lot. The total area of each sign shall not exceed one square foot per lineal
foot of building frontage, not to exceed 100 square feet; except for wall signs
that face residentially zoned property shall not exceed 50 square feet. A
maximum of four wall signs per building is permitted.
      (2)   Multi-tenant building. One wall sign shall be permitted for each
tenant of a multi-tenant structure having an individual and exterior means of
public access. The total area of a wall sign shall not exceed one square foot
per lineal foot of building frontage not to exceed 100 square feet. The center
of the wall sign shall be placed in the center of the unit on which it is
affixed.
      (3)   Height. The maximum height specified for the district in which the
sign is located provided that no part of the wall sign extends past the roof
line of the wall to which it is attached.
   (d)   Ground mounted signs.
      (1)   Number. One ground mounted sign shall be permitted per street
frontage on each parcel.
      (2)   Size. The total area of the ground mounted sign shall not exceed
one square foot per lineal foot of lot-frontage, not to exceed 80 square feet,
except wall signs that face residentially zoned land shall not exceed 64 square
feet.
      (3)   Setbacks. All ground mounted signs shall comply with the setback
and location requirements of §
1187.02.
      (4)   Landscaping. A landscaping area around the base of the ground
mounted sign shall be provided equal to the area of the sign face. A mixture of
live plant material shall be provided in the landscape area and should include
a combination of shrubs, annuals and perennials to create a pleasing
identification for the development it advertises.
      (5)   Street address. The street address number shall be clearly
displayed on the sign in numerals not less than six inches or no more than 12
inches in height. Required street address numbers are not counted in the total
area of the sign.
   (e)   Monument sign. Monument entranceway signs shall be permitted in
accordance with the following regulations.
      (1)   There shall be no more than one monument sign located at each
primary entrance leading into a office or industrial park. The entrance leading
into the office or industrial park must be a public thoroughfare. The total
area of the monument sign shall not exceed 150 square feet. The sign shall
display the name of the development only. Names of developers or contractors
shall not be displayed anywhere on such signage.
      (2)   Monument signs shall not exceed ten feet in height.
      (3)   Monument signs shall be externally illuminated.
      (4)   A landscaping area equal to the sign area shall be provided around
the sign base. The landscape area shall include living plants aesthetically
located and maintained. Impervious material shall not be permitted within the
landscape area.
      (5)   All monument signs shall comply with the setback and location
requirements of §
1187.02.
   (f)   Directory signs. Directory signs shall be permitted to direct traffic
within office and industrial parks that have at least 20 businesses on
individual lots, subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   One directory sign may be located at the entrance of an office or
industrial park provided that the directory sign cannot be seen from the road
right-of-way providing access to the office or industrial park.
      (2)   The sign shall be located away from any public right-of-way within
the office or industrial park, so that drivers can conveniently pull up to and
read the directory without impeding traffic on any road, driveway or entrance
serving the office or industrial park.
      (3)   The sign may contain an unlimited number of pieces of information,
but letters shall not be more than three inches in height and shall not be
legible from any public right-of-way.
      (4)   The sign may not exceed ten square feet in area and eight feet in
height.
      (5)   One additional directory sign may be provided internal to the
office or industrial park for each additional 20 single-tenant buildings
located within the office or industrial park.
      (6)   Directory signs shall not be illuminated.
(Ord. 2003-99, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 04-15, passed 3-8-2004; Ord. 2015-89,
passed 9-28-2015)
§ 1187.16 INTERSTATE HIGHWAY SIGN OVERLAY AREA.
   (a)   Generally. Office and industrial users located on property that abuts
the I-71 right-of-way are permitted to have one additional ground mounted sign
and wall sign placed on the side of the property or building wall that abuts or
faces I-71. The ground mounted sign and wall sign shall be located to be seen
exclusively from I-71.
   (b)   Permitted signs.
      (1)   Ground mounted sign. One on-premise ground mounted sign is
permitted on parcels that have frontage on an interstate highway provided that
the sign shall not exceed two square feet per lineal foot of lot-frontage, not
to exceed 200 square feet. The height of the ground mounted sign in the
Interstate Highway Sign Overlay Area shall not exceed 15 feet. The ground
mounted sign shall meet the setback requirements for the zoning district in
which it is located. No ground mounted sign is permitted in the Interstate
Highway Sign Overlay Area for multi-tenant structures, except for as permitted
in this chapter.
      (2)   Wall sign. One signature wall sign is permitted on the building
wall that faces an interstate highway provided that the sign shall not exceed
one square foot per lineal foot of lot frontage, not to exceed 200 square feet.
In the case of a multi-tenant building, only the user that leases the most
floor area can advertise using the permitted signature wall sign. The wall sign
shall not extend above the roof line on the building that it is attached.
(Ord. 2003-99, passed 9-8-2003)
CHAPTER 1188: CELLULAR OR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
Section
1188.01   Purpose
1188.02   Application procedure
1188.03   Standards of approval
1188.04   Development standards
1188.05   Maintenance
1188.06   Removal
1188.07   Prohibitions
1188.08   Small cell facilities
Cross-reference:
   Definitions, see §§
1133.29 et seq.
§ 1188.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of regulating cellular or wireless communications systems is to:
   (a)   Accommodate the need for cellular or wireless communications towers
and facilities for the provision of personal wireless services while regulating
their location and number in the city;
   (b)   Minimize adverse visual effects of communications towers and support
structures through proper siting, design and screening;
   (c)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from communication tower
and support structure failure;
   (d)   Encourage the joint use of any new and existing communications towers
and support structures to reduce the number of structures needed in the future;
and
   (e)   Apply to all of the areas within each zoning district of the city,
including, but not limited to, parks, highways, rights-of-way and areas
lawfully not in conformity with the current zoning regulations.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1188.02 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (a)   Pre-application conference. Any person or company intending to apply
the placement or operation of a cellular or wireless communications antenna,
tower or site within the city shall first schedule a pre-application conference
with the City Engineer or his or her assignee. At this conference, the
prospective applicant must present to the City Engineer any proposed locations
for the equipment or site. This information should identify the area within
which the tower may be located, the minimum height of the proposed tower, and
identify any possible users that may co-locate at the site. The purpose of the
pre-application conference will be to, generally, evaluate the impact on
adjacent areas and neighborhoods, discuss possibilities of co-location and
identify alternative suitable sites that may minimize the negative impact on
residential areas.
   (b)   Formal application. Upon completion of the pre-application conference,
an application may be filed with the office of the City Engineer according to
the procedures set forth in §
1135.05. The application shall be in compliance with the requirements of this
chapter and in a form as approved by the City Engineer. If the application does
not conform with requirements of this chapter, the applicant shall be notified
by the City Engineer, and no further consideration of the application shall
occur until it is in compliance with the terms of this chapter.
   (c)   Review fees. Each applicant shall pay, prior to the issuance of a
permit, any reasonable cost the city has incurred in obtaining independent
expert consultations that the city determines are necessary to review the
application and advise the city, not to exceed a fee as established and set
forth in the fee schedule in Part One - Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time. The fees are in addition to the normal
application fees incurred during the formal application process described in
division (b) above.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 1188.03 STANDARDS OF APPROVAL.
   The following standards for approval shall apply to all cellular or wireless
communications antennas and towers.
   (a)   Justification of location. The cellular or wireless communications
company shall demonstrate, using the latest technological evidence, that the
antenna or tower must be placed in a proposed location to serve its necessary
function in the company’s grid system. Part of this demonstration shall include
a drawing showing the boundaries of the area around the proposed location which
would probably also permit the antenna to function properly in the company’s
grid system.
      (1)   The applicant shall provide to the city all engineering studies
which the applicant has completed, or intends to complete, to establish the
necessity of placing an antenna within the city.
      (2)   The applicant shall provide a map of all current locations of
wireless communications antenna sites, and all proposed wireless communications
antenna sites, which will provide service under a license issued by the FCC to
users located in the city. This map shall include:
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
         A.   The location of all existing wireless communications antennas and
towers that provide service to users located in the city;
         B.   All locations at which the applicant has secured the right to
lease space for or has entered into a lease for installation of wireless
communications antennas or towers, unless the information is deemed proprietary
in nature;
         C.   The geographic areas served by each tower location that provides
service to users located within the city; and
         D.   The geographic areas into which the provider must install an
antenna or tower in order to provide service to users located within the city.
   (b)   Attempts to use existing structures.
      (1)   If the communications company proposes to build a cellular or
wireless communications tower (as opposed to mounting the antenna on an
existing structure), it is required to demonstrate that it has contacted the
owners of nearby tall structures within the area that would allow the antenna
to function properly in the company’s grid system to ask for permission to
install the cellular communications antenna on those structures, and was denied
for non-economic reasons, or that a clearly unreasonable economic demand was
made by the owner, based on prevailing market values.
      (2)   The city may deny the application to construct a new cellular or
wireless communications tower if the applicant has not made a good-faith effort
to mount the antenna on existing structures.
   (c)   Plan of operation. The applicant shall provide the city with its plan
of operation of the antenna structure, including:
      (1)   The radio wave frequency range of the expected or intended usage;
      (2)   The effective radiated power under peak operating conditions of
each antenna on a proposed tower; and
      (3)   The type of services the applicant expects or intends to provide to
customers of the applicant through the signals received and transmitted by the
antenna.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
   (d)   Radiation level calculations. The applicant shall provide engineering
calculations demonstrating anticipated levels of effective radiated power, and
shall provide a study which demonstrates the mapping of radiation levels
actually produced by all antennas on a tower under maximum operating
conditions; the mappings showing radiation levels at ground level within 800
feet of the tower. The readings shall be taken at 45-degree intervals around
the tower at every 100 feet from the tower (plus or minus ten feet). Upon
written request of any applicant, the City Engineer, in his or her discretion,
can waive the requirements for measurements at particular intervals or
distances from the tower, or may require different points of measurement if, in
his or her opinion, it is unlikely that any person will be exposed at the
location specified in this provision. The City Engineer’s decision shall be
stated in writing with written justification for the decision. The approval or
denial of any permit shall not be based on the radiation level calculations
unless the radiation exceeds the standards established by the FCC.
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
   (e)   Justification of antenna/tower height. The applicant shall demonstrate
that the antenna/tower is no higher than necessary to function satisfactorily
and to accommodate the co-location requirements as set out in division (g)
below. An antenna that is taller than the minimum necessary height may be
approved if it would significantly increase the potential for co-location.
   (f)   Tower safety.
      (1)   All cellular or wireless communications towers shall be fitted with
anti-climbing devices, as approved by the manufacturers. Furthermore, the
applicant shall demonstrate that the proposed cellular or wireless
communications tower and its antenna are safe, and that the surrounding
properties will not be negatively affected by tower failure, falling ice or
other debris, electromagnetic fields or radio frequency interference. However,
if a specific safety issue in question is determined to be regulated by either
FCC regulations or applicable building code regulations, and the operation or
construction is in compliance with regulations, then this requirement for
safety shall be deemed to have been met.
      (2)   Subsequent to the installation of a cellular or wireless
communications tower site, if it is determined by the City Council, upon
presentation of proper and sufficient documentation and after a public hearing
that the operation of a cellular or wireless communications tower is inherently
dangerous, or is a demonstrable health hazard, the cellular or wireless
communications tower site shall be declared to be a nuisance and all operations
shall cease. The tower or antenna shall also be removed as provided under §
1188.06. However, no order of removal shall be made if it is inconsistent with
FCC regulations.
   (g)   Limiting the number of cellular or wireless communications towers.
      (1)   In order to reduce the number of antenna support structures needed
in the city in the future, the proposed cellular or wireless communications
towers shall be required to accommodate other uses, including other cellular or
wireless communications companies, and the local police, fire and ambulance
departments. The owner of the existing cellular or wireless communications
tower may request reasonable compensation for the use of the tower. For the
purposes of encouraging co-location of cellular or wireless antennas and other
uses, cellular or wireless communications towers shall be designed, engineered
and constructed as follows, unless waived for good cause by the City Engineer,
to minimize impact on adjoining property.
         A.   Towers less than 75 feet tall shall be designed, engineered and
constructed to support antennas installed by one or more cellular or wireless
communications service users.
         B.   Towers more than 75 feet in height, but less than 150 feet, shall
be designed, engineered and constructed to support antennas installed by two or
more wireless communications service users.
         C.   Towers 150 feet in height or taller shall be designed, engineered
and constructed to support antennas installed by three or more cellular or
wireless communications service users.
      (2)   As used in this division, the term USERS shall include the antennas
of police, fire and ambulance departments. In addition, an applicant must
demonstrate that the area acquired by lease or otherwise acquired for the use
and construction of the cellular tower and accessory structures is sufficient
in size to accommodate any additional structures that may be required if
additional users are added to the tower.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
   (h)   Licensing. The communications company must demonstrate to the city
that it is licensed by the Federal Communication Commission (FCC). The owner of
the tower must also annually provide to the city during the first week of
January of each new year a list of all users of the tower, and each user shall
provide the city with a copy of each user’s license with the FCC. No approval
will be granted to any applicant unless proof of current FCC license for the
proposed use of the tower is provided.
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
§ 1188.04 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The following development standards shall apply to cellular or wireless
communications antennas and towers:
   (a)   Location.
      (1)   Every attempt shall be made to mount a cellular or wireless
communications antenna to an existing structure, such as a communications tower
(whether the tower is for cellular or wireless purposes or not), smoke stack,
water tower or other tall structure in any zoning district. Cellular or
wireless communications antennas may only be placed on the top of buildings
that are no less than 35 feet in height, for so long as the structure or
building remains. Cellular or wireless communications antenna mounted on
existing structures may be approved according to §
1135.04.
      (2)   If an existing structure is not available, every attempt shall be
made to place cellular or wireless communications systems in I-1 and I-2 zoning
districts. If a cellular or wireless communications company can demonstrate
that there are no suitable sites under industry or engineering standards for
its cellular or wireless communications sites within an I-1 or I-2 zoning
district, the company may apply for a permit to place the tower or antenna in a
B-3, B-4 or HT-1 District.
      (3)   Micro antennas not exceeding five feet in height may be placed on
any existing building in any zoning district. The micro antenna shall not be
subject to the setback requirements of other cellular or wireless
communications towers, provided it is placed on the roof of an existing
building.
      (4)   All other uses accessory to the cellular or wireless communications
antennas and towers, including, but not limited to, business offices,
maintenance depots, and materials and vehicles storage, are prohibited from the
site unless otherwise permitted in the zoning district in which the cellular or
wireless communications antenna and/or tower is located.
   (b)   Setback. The minimum distance between the base of a tower or any
support structures, including guy wire anchors, shall be as follows:
 
Table 1188 - Setbacks for Cellular or Wireless Comm. Towers and Support
Structures
Minimum Setback from
Any property used for residential        A distance equal to the height of the
purposes or zoned for use as residential tower; or
property                                 100 feet
                                         (whichever is the greatest distance)
                                         40% of the tower height; or
                                         the minimum setback in the adjacent
Adjacent nonresidential property         zoning district; or
                                         50 feet
                                         (whichever is the greatest distance)
                                         A distance equal to the height of the
Any right-of-way adjacent to a B-        tower; or
4 district                               1,000 feet
                                         (whichever is the greatest distance)
                                         A distance equal to the height of the
Any property adjacent to a B-4 district  tower; or
                                         100 feet
                                         (whichever is the greatest distance)
 
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999; Ord. 2014-2, passed 2-10-2014)
   (c)   Fencing. A fence shall be required around the cellular or wireless
communications tower and its support or accessory structure(s), unless the
antenna is mounted on an existing structure. The fence shall be a minimum of
ten feet in height, and shall be erected to prevent access to non-authorized
personnel.
   (d)   Screen/landscaping. Screening/landscaping shall be required to
completely screen, up to six feet from ground-level, the support structure(s)
and any other ground-level equipment, in order to soften the appearance of the
cellular or wireless communications site. The screening may be comprised of any
combination of existing vegetation, topography, walls, decorative fences or
other landscape features, provided they achieve 100% opacity year-round. A wall
or fence without natural vegetation is not an acceptable screen. If the antenna
is mounted on an existing structure and other equipment is housed inside an
existing structure, additional landscaping shall not be required.
   (e)   Parking. If the cellular or wireless communications site is fully
automated, adequate parking shall not be required for maintenance workers. If
the site is not fully automated, the number of required parking spaces shall
equal the number of employees working on the largest shift. All parking
specifications and requirements shall be consistent with the applicable parking
requirements as established in the Zoning Ordinance.
   (f)   Appearance. Cellular or wireless communications towers under 200 feet
in height shall be painted silver or have a galvanized finish retained in order
to reduce visual impact. Cellular or wireless communications towers shall meet
all Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) regulations. No cellular or wireless
communications towers may be artificially lighted, except when required by the
FAA. Furthermore, no cellular or wireless communications tower or antenna and
accessory buildings and structures shall contain any signage. All utility lines
serving the towers shall be underground.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1188.05 MAINTENANCE.
   Any owner of property used as a cellular or wireless communications site,
and any owner of a cellular or wireless communications antenna or tower, shall
maintain the property and all structures in good condition and free from trash,
outdoor storage, weeds and other debris. Any owner of a cellular or wireless
communications tower shall be required to notify the City Engineer of its
intent, in writing, within 30 days of its cessation of business, its
discontinuance of service or transfer of ownership.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1188.06 REMOVAL.
   (a)   Any cellular or wireless communications tower or antenna that has
discontinued its service for a period of six continuous months or more is
hereby determined to be a nuisance. A tower or antenna declared to be a
nuisance must be removed by the owner of the tower or antenna, and by the owner
of the property on which the tower or antenna is located, along with all
accessory structures related thereto. DISCONTINUED shall mean that the
structure has not been properly maintained, has been abandoned, has become
obsolete, is unused, is no longer used for its original purpose, is no longer
transmitting the same type of radio wave signals that it was originally
designed to transmit, or has ceased the daily activities or operations which
had occurred.
   (b)   Whenever, upon inspection, it shall appear that a cellular or wireless
communications tower has been abandoned or its use discontinued, the City
Engineer or a designated representative shall notify, either by personal
delivery or by certified mail, the owner of the property on which the tower is
located that the tower must be taken down and removed. The City Engineer, or a
designated representative, in addition to any other citations, notices,
penalties or remedies provided by law or ordinance, is authorized to proceed in
a manner consistent with and pursuant to R.C. §§ 715.26 and 715.261 to maintain
the public health, safety and welfare, and to recover costs as appropriate.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1188.07 PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   No cellular or wireless communications tower shall be permitted on any
lot on which any nonconforming building or structure is located, nor on which
any nonconforming use or activity is occurring without first obtaining a
variance from the City Planning Commission.
   (b)    No cellular or wireless communications tower shall be constructed,
replaced or altered without first obtaining the applicable building permit.
   (c)   A cellular or wireless communications antenna or communications site
shall not be placed, operated, constructed or affixed, or otherwise located
within the city, except as allowed and permitted by this chapter.
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 1188.08 SMALL CELL FACILITIES.
   (a)   Small Cell Facility Requirements. Small cell facilities shall be
subject to all regulations and procedures of
Chapter 1188, except for §
1188.04(b),
1188.04(c),
1188.04(d), including all application procedures, unless specifically stated
otherwise below. In addition, all final approvals of any small cell facilities
shall fall within the jurisdiction of City Council and shall be considered by
City Council at the next regular Council meeting following a decision by
Planning Commission.
   (b)   Location.
      (1)   Every attempt shall be made to mount a small cell facility to an
existing structure, such as a communications tower (whether said tower is for
cellular or wireless purposes or not), smoke stack, water tower, or other tall
structure in any zoning district. Small cell facilities may only be placed on
top of buildings that are no less than thirty-five (35) feet in height, for so
long as the structure or building remains. Small cell faculties mounted on
existing structures may be approved according to §
1135.04.
      (2)   If an existing structure is not available, a small cell facility
shall be located within the public right-of-way or an arterial or collector
street as identified on the City of Mason Thoroughfare Plan, in an industrial
subdivision, or on private property within a utility easement recorded at the
Warren County Recorder's Office in a I-1, I-2, HT-1, B-3, or B-4 zoning
district.
      (3)   A small cell facility shall not be located within a residential
zoning district, a residential subdivision, or within 100 feet of a property
that contains a residential use. However, a small cell facility may be located
either on the property or in the right-of-way adjacent to a valid conforming
non-residential use that is located in a residential zoning district provided
that the use is also located on an arterial or collector street as identified
on the City of Mason Thoroughfare Plan. Distance shall be measured from the
base of the small cell facility to the nearest property line of the use.
   (c)   Quantity. No small cell facilities may be located within 2,000 linear
feet from another small cell facility or cellular or wireless communication
tower, unless such facility is co-located as defined in this chapter.
   (d)   Height. Small cell facilities shall not exceed thirty (30) feet in
height, unless such facility is co-located as defined in this chapter.
   (e)   Appearance.
      (1)   All small cell facilities shall be designed to be consistent and
complimentary with the surrounding environment in terms of height, materials,
color, scale, and design.
      (2)   Small cell facilities shall be painted, anodized or constructed out
of materials that are colored grey or black. Galvanized material may not be
used in construction of the small cell facility unless it can be painted or
otherwise coated as required in this section.
      (3)   All related equipment, including, but not limited to, electrical
boxes, conduit, wiring, and mounting equipment shall be placed underground or
be wholly contained within an enclosure so as not to be visible. Further, all
electrical and communications connections shall run underground to the
facility.
   (f)   Co-Location. Small cell facilities shall consist of not more than one
small cell antenna per wireless communications user and shall be capable of
providing the operation for two or more wireless communications service users.
   (g)   Footprint. Small cell facilities shall not exceed twenty-four (24)
inches in diameter with the exception of the foundation, which said foundation
shall not exceed six (6) inches above grade.
(Ord. 2016-69, passed 9-12-2016)
CHAPTER 1189: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS
Section
   
1189.01   Purpose; findings and rationale
   
1189.02   Definitions
   
1189.03   Location of sexually oriented businesses
Cross-reference:
   Sexually oriented businesses, see
Chapter 723
§ 1189.01 PURPOSE; FINDINGS AND RATIONALE.
   (a)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens of the city, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects of sexually oriented
businesses within the city. The provisions of this chapter have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content or
reasonable access to any communicative materials, including sexually oriented
materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene material.
   (b)   Findings and rationale. The findings and rationale shall be the same
as set forth in
Chapter 723 of the Business Regulation Code and hereby incorporated herein by
reference.
(Ord. 2017-52, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 1189.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the words and phrases defined hereunder shall
have the meanings therein respectively ascribed to them unless a different
meaning is clearly indicated by the context.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. Any building owned, leased, or held by the United States,
the state, the county, the city, any special district, school district, or any
other agency or political subdivision of the state or the United States, which
building is used for governmental purposes including, but not limited to,
public libraries.
   PUBLIC PARK OR RECREATION AREA. Public land which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, open space, and wilderness areas,
as well as public land within the city which is under the control, operation,
or management of the city park and recreation authorities.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple, or building
which is used primarily for religious worship and related religious activities.
   SCHOOL. Any public or private educational facility including, but not
limited to, child daycare facilities, nursery schools, preschools,
kindergartens, elementary schools, primary schools, intermediate schools,
junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, vocational schools,
secondary schools, continuation schools, special education schools, junior
colleges, and universities. SCHOOL includes the school grounds, but does not
include any facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally
as a school.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An “adult arcade,” an “adult bookstore,” an
“adult motion picture theater,” a “semi-nude lounge,” or a “sex paraphernalia
store” as those terms are defined in Chapter 723 of the Business Regulation
Code.
(Ord. 2017-52, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 1189.03 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to establish, operate, or cause to be operated a
sexually oriented business in Mason within 750 feet of another sexually
oriented business. Measurements for this subsection (a) shall be made in a
straight line without regard to intervening structures or objects, between the
closest parts of the structures occupied by the two sexually oriented
businesses. Where a sexually oriented business is within a multi-tenant
development, the measurement shall be to or from the closest part of the tenant
space occupied by the sexually oriented business.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful to establish, operate, or cause to be operated a
sexually oriented business in Mason, unless said sexually oriented business is
at least:
      (1)   Seven hundred fifty feet from the closest boundary of any
residential zoning district;
      (2)   Seven hundred fifty feet from all parcels containing a residential
structure;
      (3)   Seven hundred fifty feet from all parcels containing a public
building, public park or recreation area, religious institution, or school; and
      (4)   Seven hundred fifty feet from all parcels containing a business
that is licensed to serve alcohol and is not primarily engaged in the sale and
service of food at the premises.
   (c)   For the purpose of subsection (b), measurements shall be made in a
straight line from the closest part of any structure occupied by the sexually
oriented business to the closest property line of the zoned property and uses
identified in subsection (b) above. Where a use identified in subsection (b) is
located in a multi-tenant development, the distance shall be measured to the
closest part of the tenant space occupied by that use rather than the property
line of the entire development, so as to maximize the number of locations
available to adult establishments.
   (d)   The zoning and/or use of land in adjacent jurisdictions shall not
disqualify any location within Mason from being available to an adult
establishment.
   (e)   Notwithstanding any provision in the Mason Code of Ordinances to the
contrary, a sexually oriented business in a location that satisfies the
standards in this §
1189.03 shall not be deemed noncompliant with this section by virtue of the
subsequent establishment or expansion of a land use or zoning district
specified in this section.
(Ord. 2017-52, passed 5-15-2017)
***** TITLE NINE: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN *****
CHAPTER 1200: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
1200.01   2010 Comprehensive Plan adopted by reference.
§ 1200.01 2010 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The 2010 Comprehensive Plan of the City of Mason is hereby approved and
adopted by reference and made a part of this code as if set forth in full
herein.
(Ord. 2010-107, passed 11-1-2010)
APPENDIX A: SUMMARY OF USES FOR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
Appendix A: Summary of Uses for Residential Districts
Principal and Conditional Uses District(1) and Chapter Reference
                               R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 1147 R-6  R-7
                                                       1148 1149
Appendix A: Summary of Uses for Residential Districts
Principal and Conditional Uses            District(1) and Chapter Reference
                                          R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 1147 R-6  R-7
                                                                  1148 1149
Agricultural (minimum of 10 acres)        P                       P
Child daycare centers                     C                       C    C
Convalescent, nursing or rest homes       C                       C    C
Dwelling structures, condominiums and                             P    P
landominiums
Dwelling structures, multi-family                                      P
Dwelling structures, single-family        P                       P
Dwelling structures, two-family                                        P
Golf courses                              P                       P    P
Group homes                               P                       P    P
Home-based barber shops and beauty salons C
Institutions, public and cultural         P                       P    P
Parks                                     P                       P    P
Places of worship                         P                       P    P
Schools, public and private               P                       P    P
Utility substations                                               C    C
(1)   P - Permitted   C - Conditional
If there is any discrepancy between this table and the Zoning Ordinance,
including errors of omission, the Zoning Ordinance shall prevail. Please
refer to the district chapter for specific requirements and/or conditions.
 
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998)
APPENDIX B: SUMMARY OF USES FOR NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
Appendix B: Summary of Uses for Nonresidential Districts
                              District (1)
Principal and Conditional Use B-1  B-2  B-3  B-4  O-1  HT-1 I-1  I-2
Chapter Reference             1155 1157 1159 1160 1153 1162 1163 1165
Appendix B: Summary of Uses for Nonresidential Districts
                                        District (1)
Principal and Conditional Use           B-1  B-2  B-3  B-4  O-1  HT-1 I-1  I-2
Chapter Reference                       1155 1157 1159 1160 1153 1162 1163 1165
Amphitheaters                                       P                 
Animal hospitals, veterinarian clinics      C    C                     
and kennels
Arcades                                             P                 
Art studios                             P    P    P                     
Auto repair (minor), body shops,                P                     
automobile accessories
Automobile repair shops (major)                                 P    P
Automobile service stations,                C    P                     
accessories
Automobile washing facilities                   P                     
Bakeries                                P    P    P                     
Bed and breakfast                       P                             
Business and cleaning services          P    P    P                     
Business and personal services          P    P    P        C             
Cellular or wireless communications                                  
systems
   New structure                             P*           P*   P    P
                                       * See §
                                        1188.04(a)(1) for location restrictions
   On existing structure             P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P
Child day-care centers                  P    P    P        C    P         
Churches and places of worship          P    P                         
Commercial entertainment and                    P                     
recreation, indoor
Commercial entertainment and                    P                     
recreation, outdoor
Commercial parking garage/lots          C                C    P         
Concert halls, meeting and banquet
halls with structures set back at least         P                     
50 feet from any residential property
Contractor’s yard and related                                 P     
establishments
Convenience food stores, carry-outs,
mini-markets and drive through and          C    P                     
drive-in facilities
Data processing services                                    P         
Financial establishments with drive-            P        P    P         
through facilities
Financial establishments without drive- P    P    P        P    P         
through facilities
Fraternal and social associations               P                     
Funeral homes                                           P    P         
Garden supply                           P    P    P                     
General merchandise and grocery stores  P    P    P                     
Home furnishings, home improvements,    P    P    P                     
materials and equipment stores
Hotels and conference facilities                P    P        P         
Indoor movie theaters                           P    P                 
Institutional, public and cultural uses P    P            P    P         
Libraries, museums and art galleries    P    P                         
Manufacturing, fabricating, assembly,
testing, repair, servicing and                              P    P    P
processing
Manufacturing - heavy industrial use                                P
Manufacturing - light industrial use                            P    P
Mechanical rides or attractions                     P                 
Motels and hotels                               P            P         
Motion picture production                                   P         
Nursery supply                                  P                     
Offices - professional, administrative, P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P
medical and dental clinics
Public offices and buildings            P    P    P                     
Public utility substations                                  P         
Publishing, printing and blueprinting           P                     
shops
Recreational - private health clubs and
recreational facilities that are not        P    P        P    P         
operated for commercial purposes
Residential use (second floor)          C                             
Restaurants, fast food                          P                     
Restaurants, standard, with drive-      C    C    P                     
through facilities
Restaurants, standard, without drive-   P    P    P    P                 
through facilities
Schools, public and private elementary  P    P    P                     
Sexually oriented business                                  P    P    P
Specialty food stores                   P    P    P    P                 
Specialty retail and commercial uses    P    P    P                     
without a drive-through
Specialty retail and commercial uses
including drug stores with drive-               P                     
through pharmacies
Stages                                              P                 
Swimming facilities                                 P                 
Taverns, bars and nightclubs                C    P                     
Theaters                                    C    P                     
Vehicle sales, leasing, rental and          C    P                     
service
Vehicle storage, with structures set            P                     
back at least 75 feet
Warehousing                                                 P    P    P
Wholesaling, storage, mini-storage                              P    P
(1)P - Permitted   C - Conditional
If there is any discrepancy between this table and the Zoning Ordinance,
including errors of omission, the Zoning Ordinance shall prevail. Please refer
to the district chapter for specific requirements and/or conditions.
 
(Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999; Ord. 2017-52, passed 5-15-2017)
APPENDIX C: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
   The following table is a summary of lot widths, areas and setback
requirements for nonresidential districts. If there is any discrepancy between
this table and the Zoning Ordinance, including errors of omission, the Zoning
Ordinance shall prevail. Please refer to the district chapters for specific
requirements and/or conditions.
Appendix C: Development Standards for Nonresidential Districts
                                             Minimum Setbacks Parking and
                                             for Principal    Driveways
                                             Buildings
         Min.     Min. lot Min. lot Min. lot
District area of  area     width    depth    Front Side Rear  Front Side Rear
         district
Appendix C: Development Standards for Nonresidential Districts
                                     Minimum Setbacks for Principal      Parking and
                                     Buildings                           Driveways
         Min.     Min.   Min.  Min.
District area of  lot    lot   lot   Front       Side        Rear        Front Side Rear
         district area   width depth
B-1               None   None        (1)         (2)         (2)         (1)   (2)  (2)
B-2               5      None        50 ft.      50 ft.      50 ft.      50    50   50
                  acres                                                  ft.   ft.  ft.
                  40,000 200                                             25    10   10
B-3               sq. ft ft.         25 ft. (3)  25. ft (3)  40 ft. (3)  ft.   ft.  ft.
                                                                         (3)   (3)  (3)
B-4      See
         Chapter 1160 for specific standards
                                                 15 ft., 100 25 ft., 100 Same as
                         150   200               ft. if      ft. if      principal
O-1      5 acres  1 acre ft.   ft.   50 ft.      abutting a  abutting a  building
                                                 residential residential setbacks
                                                 district    district
                                                 15 ft., 100 25 ft., 100 Same as
                         150   200               ft. if      ft. if      principal
HT-1     10 acres 1 acre ft.   ft.   50 ft.      abutting a  abutting a  building
                                                 residential residential setbacks
                                                 district    district
                                     25 ft., 50  12 ft., 100 10 ft., 100
                  2                  ft. if      ft. if      ft. if      25    10   10
I-1               acres              abutting a  abutting a  abutting a  ft.   ft.  ft.
                                     residential residential residential
                                     district    district    district
                                                 12 ft., 100 10 ft., 100
                  5                              ft. if      ft. if      25    10   10
I-2               acres              50 ft.      abutting a  abutting a  ft.   ft.  ft.
                                                 residential residential
                                                 district    district
(1)   The minimum front yard setback shall be the average of existing commercial
structures on the same side of the street and facing thereon within the same block.
Where there are no adjacent commercial structures, the front yard setback shall be not
less than 15 feet measured from the street right-of-way, and sufficient to meet
screening and buffer yard standards specified in the Landscape Ordinance.
(2)   No minimum side or rear yards shall be required, provided that the requirements of
Chapter 1175 and the Landscape Ordinance are met.
(3)   In a B- 3 zone, a minimum setback of 100 ft. from all residential zones is
required for any structure, use or parking.
 
(Ord. 98-104, passed 9-14-1998; Ord. 99-132, passed 10-11-1999)
PART THIRTEEN: BUILDING CODE
         Chap.
1301. Building Code
CHAPTER 1301: BUILDING CODE
Section
1301.01   Adoption
1301.02   Incorporation; file and distribution copies
1301.03   Conflict between Zoning and Building Codes
1301.04   Indemnification by permit holder
1301.05   Fees
1301.06   Grading requirements
1301.07   Securing of vacant buildings
1301.08   Certification of occupancy
1301.09   Conflicts
1301.10   Appeals
1301.99   Violations and penalty
Charter reference:
   Board of Zoning, Housing and Building Appeals, see Charter §§
7.03,
7.04
   Department of Inspection and Engineering, see Charter §
6.09
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned service stations, see R.C. §§ 3791.11 et seq. 
   Application, see R.C. §§ 3781.06, 3781.10(A), 3781.11(A)
   Authorization by Board of Building Standards, see R.C. § 3781.12
   Dead bolt locks in apartment buildings, see R.C. § 3781.103
   Energy conservation, see R.C.§§ 156.01 et seq.; O.A.C. 4101:2-20-01 et seq. 
   Enforcement, see R.C. §§ 3781.03, 3781.031, 3781.10(E), 3781.102, 3781.19
   Final jurisdiction, see R.C. § 3781.04
   Power to enact further and additional regulations, see R.C. § 3781.01
   Removal of unsafe structures, see R.C. §§ 715.26(B), 715.261
   Safety standards for refuse containers, see R.C. § 3791.21; O.A.C. 4101:2-
88-01 et seq.
   Smoke detection system for apartments and condominiums, see R.C. § 3781.104;
O.A.C. Ch. 4101:2-89
   Submission of plans, see R.C. § 3791.04
   Use of public buildings by handicapped persons, see R.C. § 3781.111
§ 1301.01 ADOPTION.
   (a)   The Ohio Building Code (OBC) and Residential Code of Ohio (RCO) as the
same may be amended or recodified by the Ohio Board of Building Standards, is
adopted as the Building Code of the city, for the regulation of the erection,
construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal, demolition,
conversion, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area for all and maintenance of
all structures, including one-, two- and three-family dwellings and their
accessory structures.
   (b)   Pool barriers for swimming pools accessory to one-, two- and three-
family dwellings.
      (1)   General.  The provisions of these rules shall control the design of
outdoor pool barriers for pools on the lot of a detached one-, two- or three-
family dwelling. These design controls are intended to provide protection
against potential drownings and near-drownings by restricting access to
swimming pools.
      (2)   Definitions. For the purposes of these requirements, the terms used
shall be defined as follows:
         A.   BARRIER. A fence, wall, building wall or combination thereof
which completely surrounds the swimming pool and obstructs access to the
swimming pool.
         B.   SWIMMING POOL. Any permanent (non-storable) structure intended
for swimming or recreational bathing that contains water more than 24 inches
deep. This includes in- ground, above-ground, and on-ground swimming pools.
      (3)   Barrier requirements. The provisions of this section shall apply to
the design of barriers for restricting entry into areas having pools and spas.
Where spas or hot tubs are equipped with a lockable safety cover complying with
ASTM F1346 and swimming pools located at least 100 feet from the nearest
adjacent dwelling are equipped with a powered safety cover that complies with
ASTM F1346, the areas where those spas, hot tubs or pools are located shall not
be required to comply with the following:
         A.   The top of the barrier shall be at least 48 inches above grade
measured on the side of the barrier which faces away from the swimming pool.
The maximum vertical clearance between grade and the bottom of the barrier
shall be two inches measured on the side of the barrier which faces away from
the swimming pool. When the top of the pool structure is above grade, such as
an above-ground pool, the barrier may be at ground level, such as the pool
structure, or mounted on top of the pool structure. Where the barrier is
mounted on top of the pool structure, the maximum vertical clearance between
the top of the pool structure and the bottom of the barrier shall be four
inches.
         B.   Openings in the barrier shall not allow the passage of a four-
inch diameter sphere.
         C.   Solid barriers which do not have openings, such as a masonry or
stone wall, shall not contain indentations or protrusions, except for normal
construction tolerances and tooled masonry joints.
         D.   Maximum mesh size for chain link fences shall be a 2-1/4 inch
square, unless the fence has slats fastened at the top or bottom which reduce
the openings to not more than 1-3/4 inches.
         E.   Where the barrier is composed of diagonal members, such as a
lattice fence, the maximum opening formed by the diagonal members shall not be
more than 1-3/4 inches.
         F.   Access gates shall comply with the requirements of divisions (b)
(3)A. through G., and shall be equipped to accommodate a locking device.
Pedestrian access gates shall open outwards away from the pool, and be self-
closing and have a self-latching device. Gates, other than pedestrian access
gates, shall have a self-latching device. Where the release mechanism of the
self-latching device is located less than 54 inches from the bottom of the
gate, the release mechanism and openings shall comply with the following:
            1.   The release mechanism shall be located on the pool side of the
gate at least three inches below the top of the gate; and
            2.   The gate and barrier shall have not opening larger than 1/2-
inch within 18 inches of the release mechanism.
         G.   Where an above- ground pool structure is used as a barrier or
where the barrier is mounted on top of the pool structure, and the means of
access is a ladder or steps:
            1.   The ladder or steps shall be capable of being secured, locked
or removed to prevent access; or
            2.   The ladder or steps shall be surrounded by a barrier which
meets the requirements of division (b)(3)A. through F. When the ladder or steps
are secured, locked or removed, any opening created shall not allow the passage
of a four-inch diameter sphere.
         H.   Barriers shall be located to prohibit permanent structures,
equipment or similar objects from being used to climb them.
(Ord. 97-75, passed 5-27-1997; Ord. 2005-53, passed 5-9-2005; Ord. 2006-30,
passed 5-27-2006; Ord. 2013-6, passed 1-28-2013; Ord. 2020-64, passed 8-10-
2020)
§ 1301.02 INCORPORATION; FILE AND DISTRIBUTION COPIES.
   (a)   The Ohio Building Code (OBC) and Residential Code of Ohio (RCO) are
incorporated in this code by reference and are a part of this code as if fully
recited herein.
   (b)   Complete copies of these Codes are on file with the Clerk of Council
of the city for inspection by the public. Complete copies of these Codes are
also on file in the law library of the county.
(Ord. 97-75, passed 5-27-1997; Ord. 2006-30, passed 5-27-2006)
§ 1301.03 CONFLICT BETWEEN ZONING AND BUILDING CODES.
   In the event that any of the provisions of the codes adopted by §§
1301.01 and
1301.02 as to height, area or separation of buildings are at variance with the
requirements of the Zoning Ordinance enacted by Council, then, if more
restrictive, the requirements of the Zoning Ordinance shall apply.
(Ord. 8-17, passed 2-8-1988)
§ 1301.04 INDEMNIFICATION BY PERMIT HOLDER.
   Any person to whom a permit is issued under the provisions of this chapter
shall agree by acceptance thereof to hold the city harmless and free from
claims of any person that may be caused by, or arise from, any excavation,
fill, use, building, construction or related operation. The permission to make
the use or conduct the operation shall be conditional upon the agreement as to
liability.
(Ord. 8-17, passed 2-8-1988)
§ 1301.05 FEES.
   Fees for permits required by this Building Code are to be as provided in
this section. Fees are established as set forth in the fee schedule in Part One
- Title Eleven,
Chapter 205 of these codified ordinances. The amount of the fee shall be as set
by ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 91-8, passed 2-25-1991; Ord. 99-58, passed 4-12-1999; Ord. 2008-122,
passed 12-15-2008; Ord. 2017-8, passed 1-23-2017)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 1301.06 GRADING REQUIREMENTS.
   The finished grades, resulting from grading land, shall be such that
drainage of surface water away from buildings and structures will be adequate
to prevent damage to foundations, dampness within buildings and structures and
unhealthful conditions caused by water lying upon the land. All roofs and paved
areas shall be drained away from foundations and into a recognized stormwater
system. All buildings, except as provided herein, shall be provided with
gutters, downspouts and drains which conduct roof water so as to prevent damage
to building walls, foundations and adjoining property. Drains used for this
purpose shall be of solid, tight-jointed pipe not less than four inches in
diameter. Roofs of accessory buildings, not exceeding 800 square feet in area,
will not be required to have gutters and downspouts unless the Building
Official determines that gutters and downspouts, in compliance with the
regulations hereof, are necessary to prevent serious damage to nearby property
or present a health hazard.
(Ord. 8-17, passed 2-8-1988)
§ 1301.07 SECURING OF VACANT BUILDINGS.
   (a)   Unoccupied and vacant buildings that are normally enclosed shall not
be accessible to the public. When openings are not maintained substantially
weathertight or cannot prevent unauthorized entry, the buildings shall be
secured by the following means, or the equivalent as approved by the Building
Official.
   (b)   The effective boarding of a building shall include, but not be limited
to, doors, windows or other areas open to ingress and egress and to weather
elements. The openings shall be secured by exterior grade plywood, not less
than one-half inch in nominal thickness, or other material of equal strength,
cut and fit into the openings. Openings in excess of 48 inches wide shall be
framed with nominal two- by four-inch lumber and plywood, or equivalent
material fastened 24 inches on center onto the frame. The plywood or equivalent
material shall be fastened into the openings by screws or lags and painted to
match the exterior color scheme.
(Ord. 2008-134, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 1301.08 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (a)   A certificate of occupancy shall be obtained before which time it
shall be unlawful to occupy a building. The applicant for the certificate will
be obligated to certify at the time of application that the building
substantially complies with all provisions of this chapter and amendments
hereto.
   (b)   The applicant will be subject to penalties provided in §
1301.99 if he or she files false information on his or her application, and the
owner will be subject to penalties if he or she allows the building to be
occupied before final inspection has been made and a certificate of occupancy
has been issued.
   (c)   Application for this certificate shall be made to the Building
Official on the form provided and the established fee paid. The certificate of
occupancy will be issued upon examination of the improvement by the Building
Official or his or her designate and verification that the improvement
substantially complies with the Building Code.
(Ord. 8-17, passed 2-8-1988)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
205.01
§ 1301.09 CONFLICTS.
   The fire safety provisions set forth in
Chapter 1501 of the Fire Prevention Code are applicable to all new construction
and any conflict with the Building Code should be resolved in the manner set
out in §
1501.13.
(Ord. 8-17, passed 2-8-1988)
§ 1301.10 APPEALS.
   Appeal from any order or ruling of the Building Official not under the
jurisdiction of the State Board of Building Appeals shall be as provided for in
Chapter 1141.
(Ord. 8-17, passed 2-8-1988)
§ 1301.99 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY.
   (a)   Failure to obtain permits before starting work. Whoever commences any
installation of work for which a permit is required by this chapter without
first having obtained a permit therefor shall, if legally authorized and
subsequently allowed to obtain a permit, pay double the permit fees prescribed
by §
1301.07; provided, however, that this requirement shall not apply to emergency
work or installations, when it shall be proved to the satisfaction of the
Building Official that the work or installation was urgently necessary and that
it would have been impractical to have awaited the normal time consumed in
application for and issuance of the permit. In any event, the applicant shall
notify the Building Official of the work or installation at the earliest
possible time. Even in emergencies, the required permit shall be obtained
without unreasonable delay after installation starts, and in no case more than
three days in which the office of the Building Official is open for business,
or the extra fee as herein provided shall be charged for the permit. Before
issuing the permit, the Building Official shall take necessary steps to
determine whether work performed prior to the date of permit and inspection
conform to the chapter. The steps may include but shall not be limited to
directing the tearing out of sections of surface work for access to subsurface
sections, digging for access to foundations, piping and other subterranean work
and the like. The applicant for the permit shall perform all work as may be
directed at his or her own expense.
(Ord. 89-82, passed 7-10-1989)
   (b)   Penalty. No person, firm or corporation shall erect, construct,
enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish, equip, use,
occupy or maintain any building or structure in the city or cause the same to
be done contrary to or in violation of any plans submitted and approved by the
Building Official or any of his or her authorized agents. Any person, firm or
corporation violating any provisions shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
second degree and each person, firm or corporation shall be guilty of a
separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any
violation of any of the provisions is committed, continued or permitted. Upon
the conviction for any violation, offending persons shall be fined not more
than $750 or imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
   (c)   Civil remedies. In addition to the above criminal remedies the city
shall have all civil remedies available under the law, including equitable
remedies to compel the vacation of the property or the removal of any
unauthorized structure or cessation of the structure or any use.
(Ord. 8-17, passed 2-8-1988)
PART FIFTEEN: FIRE PREVENTION CODE
         Chap.
1501. Ohio Fire Code
         Chap.
1505. Open Burning
         Chap.
1519. Fireworks
CHAPTER 1501: OHIO FIRE CODE
Section
1501.01   Adoption and purpose
1501.02   Amendments (Repealed)
1501.03   Application
1501.04   Miscellaneous regulations (Repealed)
1501.05   Districts in which storage of explosives and blasting agents is
prohibited
1501.06   Routes for vehicles transporting explosives and blasting agents
1501.07   Routes for vehicles transporting hazardous chemicals or other
dangerous articles
1501.08   Enforcement (Repealed)
1501.09   Modifications (Repealed)
1501.10   New materials, processes or occupancies which may require permits
1501.11   Appeals (Repealed)
1501.12   File and distribution copies
1501.13   Conflicts
1501.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Appeals of orders, see R.C. § 119.12
   Common Pleas Court jurisdiction, see R.C. §§ 3737.44(A), 3737.51(H)
   Entry and inspection, see R.C. §§ 3737.14, 3737.41, 3737.42
   Fire extinguishing and alarm systems in rest and nursing homes, see R.C. §
3721.071
   Fire investigation, see R.C. §§ 737.27, 3737.24 et seq.
   Fireworks, see R.C. Ch. 3743
   Ohio Fire Code, see R.C. §§ 3737.82 et seq.; O.A.C. Ch. 1301:7-1 et seq.
   Self-service filling stations, see R.C. § 3741.14
   State certification of Fire Safety Inspectors, see R.C. §§ 3737.01(C),
3737.34
   State certification of firefighters, see R.C. §§ 737.08, 737.22, 3737.33
§ 1501.01 ADOPTION AND PURPOSE.
   (a)   There is hereby adopted by the city, the Ohio Fire Code (OFC), as the
same may be amended or recodified by the Ohio Division of State Fire Marshal,
Department of Commerce, and as published in O.A.C. Division 1301:7-1.
   (b)   The purpose of the Ohio Fire Code as adopted herein is to prescribe
minimum standards and regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and
property from fire or explosion.
(Ord. 92-119, passed 11-23-1992)
§ 1501.02 AMENDMENTS (REPEALED).
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed by Ordinance 92-119, passed November 23, 1992.
§ 1501.03 APPLICATION.
   The Ohio Fire Code as adopted herein applies to the use of all lands and
properties within the city and other lands or properties owned by the city
which are situated outside the corporate limits thereof.
(Ord. 80-1979, passed 6-26-1979)
§ 1501.04 MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS (REPEALED).
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed by Ordinance 92-119, passed November 23, 1992.
§ 1501.05 DISTRICTS IN WHICH STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES AND BLASTING AGENTS IS
PROHIBITED.
   The storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited within the
corporation limits of the city except as otherwise provided for in the Zoning
Ordinance or the amendments thereto.
(Ord. 80-1979, passed 6-26-1979)
§ 1501.06 ROUTES FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES AND BLASTING AGENTS.
   The routes for vehicles transporting explosives and blasting agents, are
hereby established as U.S. Route 42 and State Route 741, except for deliveries
to and pickups from any other public way or place in the city, but then only by
the most direct route to or from the place of delivery or pickup. No other
routes shall be used.
(Ord. 80-1979, passed 6-26-1979)
§ 1501.07 ROUTES FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS OR OTHER
DANGEROUS ARTICLES.
   The routes for vehicles transporting hazardous chemicals and other dangerous
articles, are hereby established as U.S. Route 42 and State Route 741, except
for deliveries to and pickups from any other public way or place in the city,
but then only by the most direct route to or from the place of delivery or
pickup. No other routes shall be used.
(Ord. 80-1979, passed 6-26-1979)
§ 1501.08 ENFORCEMENT (REPEALED).
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed by Ordinance 92-119, passed November 23, 1992.
§ 1501.09 MODIFICATIONS (REPEALED).
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed by Ordinance 92-119, passed November 23, 1992.
§ 1501.10 NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES WHICH MAY REQUIRE PERMITS.
   The Fire Prevention Officer or any fire inspector under his or her control
shall determine and specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be
heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies, which shall require
permits, in addition to those now enumerated in the Ohio Fire Code. The Fire
Prevention Officer shall post, or cause to be posted, a list of determinations
and specifications in a conspicuous place in the municipal building, and shall
distribute, or cause to be distributed, copies thereof to interested persons.
(Ord. 80-1979, passed 6-26-1979)
§ 1501.11 APPEALS (REPEALED).
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed by Ordinance 92-119, passed November 23, 1992.
§ 1501.12 FILE AND DISTRIBUTION COPIES.
   The Clerk of Council is hereby directed to obtain and have on file a
complete copy of the Ohio Fire Code, as adopted in §
1501.01, available for inspection by the public and also on file in the county
law library.
(Ord. 92-119, passed 11-23-1992)
§ 1501.13 CONFLICTS.
   (a)   The Building and Residential Code of Ohio shall supersede and govern
any order, standard, rule or regulation of the Ohio Fire Code or the Division
of State Fire Marshal, Department of Commerce in all cases where the orders,
standards, rules or regulations are in conflict with the Building and
Residential Code of Ohio.
   (b)   In all other cases of conflict between the Ohio Fire Code and any
other city ordinance or technical code adopted thereby, the higher standard for
the promotion and protection of the safety and welfare of the public shall
govern.
(Ord. 80-1979, passed 6-26-1979)
§ 1501.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates any provision of the Ohio Fire Code or fails to
comply therewith, or violates or fails to comply with any order made
thereunder, or builds in violation of any detailed statement of specifications,
or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued
thereunder, shall for each and every violation and noncompliance respectively,
where another penalty is not otherwise provided for, be guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (b)   The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or permit it to continue and all persons shall be required to correct
or remedy the violation or defect within a reasonable time or time prescribed
in any order issued, whichever is sooner. Further, the imposition of one
penalty shall not preclude the enforcement by imposing civil penalties or
utilizing any other procedure or remedy available under state law.
   (c)   When not otherwise specified, each day that the prohibited conditions
are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 92-119, passed 11-23-1992)
CHAPTER 1505: OPEN BURNING
Section
1505.01   Definitions
1505.02   Relation to other laws
1505.03   Open burning in restricted areas
1505.04   Permission to individuals and notification to the State EPA
1505.05   Bonfires and outdoor rubbish fires
1505.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Air pollution control, see R.C. Ch. 3704
   Open burning, see O.A.C. Ch. 3745
   Permit to burn construction debris, see R.C. § 3704.11(C)
   Spreading fire through negligence, see R.C. § 3737.62
§ 1505.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   AGRICULTURAL WASTE. Any waste material generated by crop,
horticultural, or livestock production practices, and includes such items as
woody debris and plant matter from stream flooding, bags, cartons, structural
materials, and landscape wastes that are generated in agricultural activities,
but does not include land clearing waste; buildings (including dismantled/
fallen barns); garbage; dead animals; animal waste; motor vehicles and parts
thereof; nor economic poisons and containers thereof, unless the manufacturer
has identified open burning as a safe disposal procedure.
      (2)   AIR CURTAIN BURNER. An engineered apparatus consisting of a
motorized high-velocity fan and an air  distribution system designed to aid in
the efficient combustion of materials placed in a manufactured steel structure
and for which a permit-to-install has been obtained as required in O.A.C.
Chapter 3745-31 and a permit-to-operate has been obtained as required in O.A.C.
Chapter 3745-77.
      (3)   AIR CURTAIN DESTRUCTOR. An engineered apparatus consisting of a
motorized high-velocity fan and an air distribution system designed to aid in
the efficient combustion of materials placed in an adjacent pit. An air curtain
burner may be used in place of an air curtain destructor, but an air curtain
destructor may not be used in place of an air curtain burner.
      (4)   ECONOMIC POISONS. Include but are not restricted to pesticides such
as insecticides, fungicides, rodenticides, miticides, nematocides and
fumigants; herbicides; seed disinfectants; and defoliants.
      (5)   EMERGENCY BURNING. The burning of clean wood waste or deceased
animals caused by a natural disaster or an uncontrolled event such as the
following:
         A.   A tornado.
         B.   High winds.
         C.   An earthquake.
         D.   An explosion.
         E.   A flood.
         F.   A hail storm, a rain storm, or an ice storm.
      (6)   GARBAGE. Any waste material resulting from the handling,
processing, preparation, cooking and consumption of food or food products.
      (7)   INHABITED BUILDING. Any inhabited private dwelling house and any
public structure which may be used as a place of resort, assembly, education,
entertainment, lodging, trade, manufacture, repair, storage, traffic, or
occupancy by the public. Examples would include, but are not limited to,
highway rest stops, restaurants, motels, hotels and gas stations.
      (8)   LAND CLEARING WASTE. Plant waste material which is removed from
land, including plant waste material removed from stream banks during projects
involving more than one property owner, for the purpose of rendering the land
useful for residential, commercial, or industrial development. Land clearing
waste also includes the plant waste material generated during the clearing of
land for new agricultural development.
      (9)   LANDSCAPE WASTE. Any plant waste material, except garbage,
including trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves, grass,
shrubbery, yard trimmings, and crop residues.
      (10)   OHIO EPA. The Ohio Environmental Protection Agency Director or
agencies delegated authority by the Director of the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency pursuant to R.C. § 3704.03 or the Chief of any Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency District Office.
      (11)   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any materials wherein air
contaminants resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the ambient
air without passing through a stack or chimney. Open burning includes the
burning of any refuse or salvageable material in any device not subject to or
designed specifically to comply with the requirements of O.A.C. 3745-17-09 or
O.A.C. 3745-17-10.
      (12)   RESIDENTIAL WASTE. Any waste material, including landscape waste,
generated on the property of a one-, two- or three- family residence as a
result of residential activities, but not including garbage, rubber, grease,
asphalt, liquid petroleum products, or plastics.
      (13)   RESTRICTED AREA. The area within the boundary of the municipality,
plus a zone extending 1,000 feet beyond the boundaries of a municipality having
a population of 1,000 to 10,000 persons and a zone extending one mile beyond
any municipality having a population of 10,000 persons or more according to the
latest federal census.
      (14)   UNRESTRICTED AREA. All areas outside the boundaries of a
restricted area as defined in this section.
   (b)   Referenced materials. This section includes references to certain
matter or materials. The text of the referenced materials is not included in
the legislation contained in this section. Information on the availability of
the referenced materials as well as the date of, and/or the particular edition
or version of the material is included in this legislation. For materials
subject to change, only the specific versions specified in this legislation are
referenced. Material is referenced as it exists on the effective date of this
legislation. Except for subsequent annual publication of existing (unmodified)
Code of Federal Regulation compilations, any amendment or revision to a
referenced document is not applicable unless and until this section has been
amended to specify the new dates.
      (1)   Availability. The referenced materials are available as follows:
         A.   Clean Air Act. Information and copies may be obtained by writing
to: Superintendent of Documents, Attn: New Orders, PO Box 371954, Pittsburgh,
PA 15250-7954. The full text of the act as amended in 1990 is also available in
electronic format at www.epa.gov/oar/caa/. A copy of the act is also available
for inspection and use at most public libraries and the State Library of Ohio.
         B.   Code of Federal Regulations (C.F.R.). Information and copies may
be obtained by writing to: Superintendent of Documents, Attn: New Orders, PO
Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954. The full text of the C.F.R. is also
available in electronic format at http://www.ecfr.gov. The C.F.R. compilations
are also available for inspection and use at most public libraries and the
State Library of Ohio.
         C.   National Fire Protection Association. Information on the National
Fire Protection Association codes may be obtained by contacting the Association
at 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, Massachusetts 02169-7471, 617-770-3000. Codes
may be ordered at www.nfpa.org/ catalog/home/index.asp. Copies of the code
exist or are available at most public libraries and the State Library of Ohio.
      (2)   Referenced materials.
         A.   40 C.F.R. § 60.2974: “Am I required to apply for and obtain a
title V operating permit for my air curtain incinerator that burns only wood
waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?” as published in the July 1, 2012 Code of
Federal Regulations.
         B.   40 C.F.R. § 60.3069: “Am I required to apply for and obtain a
title V operating permit for my air curtain incinerator that burns only wood
waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?” as published in the July 1, 2012 Code of
Federal Regulations.
         C.   NFPA publication 1403: “Standard on Live Fire Training
Evolutions, Chapter 4, Acquired Structures” published April 30, 2007.
         D.   Section 129 of the Clean Air Act, contained in 42 U.S.C. § 7429:
“Solid waste combustion” published January 2, 2006 in Supplement V of the 2000
Edition of the United States Code.
(O.A.C. 3745-19-01)
§ 1505.02 RELATION TO OTHER LAWS.
   (a)   Notwithstanding any provision in O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19, no open
burning shall be conducted in an area where an air alert, warning or emergency
under O.A.C. Chapter 3745-25 is in effect.
   (b)   No provisions of O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19 permitting open burning, and
no permission to open burn granted by the State EPA, shall exempt any person
from compliance with any section of the State Revised Code or any regulation of
any state department, or any local ordinance or regulation dealing with open
burning.
(O.A.C. 3745-19-02)
§ 1505.03 OPEN BURNING IN RESTRICTED AREAS.
   (a)   No person or property owner shall cause or allow open burning in a
restricted area except as provided in divisions (b) to (d) of this section or
in R.C. § 3704.11.
   (b)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes without
notification to or permission from the State EPA:
      (1)   Heating tar, welding, acetylene torches, highway safety flares,
heating for warmth of outdoor workers and strikers, smudge pots and similar
occupational needs;
      (2)   Bonfires, campfires and outdoor fireplace equipment, whether for
cooking food for human consumption, pleasure, religious, ceremonial, warmth,
recreational or similar purposes, if the following conditions are met:
         A.   They are fueled with clean seasoned firewood, natural gas or
equivalent, or any clean burning fuel with emissions that are equivalent to or
lower than those created from the burning of seasoned firewood;
         B.   They are not used for waste disposal purposes; and
         C.   They shall have a total fuel area of three feet or less in
diameter and two feet or less in height.
      (3)   Disposal of hazardous explosive materials, military munitions or
explosive devices that require immediate action to prevent endangerment of
human health, public safety, property or the environment and that are excluded
from the requirement to obtain a hazardous waste permit pursuant to O.A.C.
3745-50-45(D)(1)(d);
      (4)   Recognized training in the use of fire extinguishers for commercial
or industrial fire prevention; and
      (5)   Fires set at the direction of federal, state, and local law
enforcement officials for the purpose of destruction of cannabis sativa
(marijuana) plant vegetation, processed marijuana material and/or other drugs
seized by federal, state, or local law enforcement officials.
      (6)   Fires allowed by divisions (b)(1), (b)(2) and (b)(4) of this
section shall not be used for waste disposal purposes and shall be of minimum
size sufficient for their intended purpose; the fuel shall be chosen to
minimize the generation and emission of air contaminants.
   (c)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes with prior
notification to the State EPA in accordance with O.A.C. 3745-19-05(B):
      (1)   Prevention or control of disease or pests, with written or verbal
verification to the State EPA from the Ohio Department of Health or local
health department, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, cooperative
extension service, State Department of Agriculture or United States Department
of Agriculture, that open burning is the only appropriate disposal method;
      (2)   Bonfires or campfires used for ceremonial purposes that do not meet
the requirements of division (b)(2) of this section, provided the following
conditions are met:
         A.   They have a total fuel area no greater than five feet in diameter
by five feet in height and burn no longer than three hours;
         B.   They are not used for waste disposal purposes; and
         C.   They are fueled with clean seasoned firewood, natural gas or
equivalent, or any clean burning fuel with emissions that are equivalent to or
lower than those created from the burning of seasoned firewood.
      (3)   Disposal of agricultural waste generated on the premises if the
following conditions are observed:
         A.   The fire is set only when atmospheric conditions will readily
dissipate contaminants;
         B.   The fire does not create a visibility hazard on the roadways,
railroad tracks or air fields;
         C.   The fire is located at a point on the premises no less than 1,000
feet from any inhabited building not located on the premises;
         D.   The wastes are stacked and dried to provide the best practicable
condition for efficient burning; and
         E.   No materials are burned which contain rubber, grease, asphalt,
liquid petroleum products, plastics or building materials.
   (d)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes upon receipt
of written permission from the State EPA, in accordance with division (d)(1) of
this section, provided that any conditions specified in the permission are
followed:
      (1)   Disposal of ignitable or explosive materials where the State EPA
determines that there is no practical alternate method of disposal, excluding
those materials identified in division (b)(3) of this section;
      (2)   Instruction in methods of firefighting or for research in the
control of fires as recognized by the State Fire Marshal Division of the State
Department of Commerce and the guidelines set forth in the National Fire
Protection Association’s (NFPA) publication 1403, Standard on Live Fire
Training Evolutions, Chapter 4, Acquired Structures, provided that the
application required in division (d)(1) of this section is submitted by the
commercial or public entity responsible for the instruction;
      (3)   In emergency or other extraordinary circumstances for any purpose
determined to be necessary by the Director and performed as identified in the
appendix to O.A.C. 3745-19-03. If deemed necessary, the open burning may be
authorized with prior oral approval by the Director followed by the issuance of
a written permission to open burn within seven working days of the oral
approval;
      (4)   Recognized horticultural, silvicultural (forestry), range or
wildlife management practices; and
      (5)   Fires and/or pyrotechnic effects, for purposes other than waste
disposal, set as part of commercial film-making or video production activities
for motion pictures and television.
(O.A.C. 3745-19-03)
§ 1505.04 PERMISSION TO INDIVIDUALS AND NOTIFICATION TO THE STATE EPA.
   (a)   Permission.
      (1)   An application for permission to open burn shall be submitted in
writing to Ohio EPA. The applicant shall allow Ohio EPA at least ten working
days to review the permit. Applicant may proceed with burn upon receipt of
written permission from Ohio EPA. Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays shall
not be considered working days. The application shall be in such form and
contain such information as required by the Ohio EPA.
      (2)   Except as provided in divisions (a)(6) and (a)(7) of this section,
the applications shall contain, as a minimum, information regarding:
         A.   The purpose of the proposed burning;
         B.   The quantity or acreage and the nature of the materials to be
burned;
         C.   The date or dates when the burning will take place;
         D.   The location of the burning site, including a map showing
distances to residences, populated areas, roadways, air fields and other
pertinent landmarks; and
         E.   The methods or actions which will be taken to reduce the
emissions of air contaminants.
      (3)   Permission to open burn shall not be granted unless the applicant
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the State EPA that open burning is
necessary to the public interest; will be conducted in a time, place and manner
as to minimize the emission of air contaminants, when atmospheric conditions
are appropriate; and will have no serious detrimental effect upon adjacent
properties or the occupants thereof. The State EPA may impose conditions as may
be necessary to accomplish the purpose of O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (a)(6) of this section, permission
to open burn must be obtained for each specific project. In emergencies where
public health or environmental quality will be seriously threatened by delay
while written permission is sought, the fire may be set with oral permission of
the State EPA.
      (5)   Violations of any of the conditions set forth by the State EPA in
granting permission to open burn shall be grounds for revocation of permission
and refusal to grant future permission, as well as for the imposition of other
sanctions provided by law.
      (6)   The State Department of Commerce, Division of State Fire Marshal,
may request permission to open burn on an annual basis for the purpose of
training firefighters on pre-flashover conditions using the State Fire
Academy’s mobile training laboratory at either the academy or at other training
sites in the state. The annual application required pursuant to division (a)(1)
of this section shall contain information as required in division (a)(2) of
this section, except the information required in divisions (a)(2)C. and (a)
(2)D. of this section need not be provided unless it is available at the time
of submittal of the application. The Academy shall contact the appropriate
State EPA District Office or local air agency at least five working days before
each training session of the date or dates when the training session will take
place and its location. Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays shall not be
considered a working day.
      (7)   For open burning defined under §
1505.01 of this chapter and O.A.C. 3745-19-04(C)(2), permission to open burn
shall not be granted unless the applicant provides proof of written notice of
intent to demolish received by the appropriate State EPA field office in
accordance with O.A.C. 3745-20-03.
   (b)   Notification.
      (1)   Notification shall be submitted in writing at least ten working
days before the fire is to be set. Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays shall
not be considered a working day. It shall be in a form and contain information
as shall be required by the State EPA.
      (2)   The notification shall inform the State EPA regarding:
         A.   The purpose of the proposed burning;
         B.   The nature and quantities of materials to be burned;
         C.   The date or dates when the burning will take place; and
         D.   The location of the burning site.
      (3)   The State EPA, after receiving notification, may determine that the
open burning is not allowed under O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19 and the State EPA
shall notify the applicant to this effect.
(O.A.C. 3745-19-05)
§ 1505.05 BONFIRES AND OUTDOOR RUBBISH FIRES.
   (a)   General. Burning of rubbish shall be prohibited except in approved
incinerators. Bonfires may be permitted only under the following conditions and
subject to the air pollution provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   Permit required. A person shall not kindle or maintain any bonfire or
authorize any fire to be kindled or maintained on any premises without having
obtained a permit or other proper authorization from the Fire Official. All
permits shall be requested by and issued to the owner of the land upon which
the bonfire is to be kindled.
   (c)   Location restricted. A person shall not kindle or maintain any bonfire
or authorize any fire to be kindled or maintained unless:
      (1)   The location is approved by the Fire Official and is not less than
50 feet from any structure and adequate provision is made to prevent fire from
spreading to within 50 feet of any structure; or
      (2)   The fire is contained in an approved burner located safely not less
than 15 feet from any structure.
   (d)   Bonfire material. Fuel for bonfires shall consist of seasoned dry wood
only and shall be ignited with a small quantity of paper only. Bonfires shall
not contain any rubbish, garbage, trash, any material made of or coated with
rubber, plastic, leather or petroleum based materials and shall not contain any
flammable or combustible liquids. The allowable quantity of wood to be burnt
shall be determined by the Fire Official and shall be based upon the fire
safety requirements of the situation and the desirable duration of burn.
   (e)   Attendance at open fires. Bonfires shall be constantly attended by a
competent person until the fire is extinguished. This person shall have fire
extinguishing equipment readily available for use as deemed necessary by the
Fire Official.
   (f)   Prohibited bonfires. The Fire Official may prohibit any or all
bonfires when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make the fire
hazardous or which are or could be offensive or objectionable due to smoke or
odor emissions. The Fire Official shall order the extinguishment, by the permit
holder or the Fire Division, of any bonfire which creates or adds to a
hazardous or objectionable situation.
(O.A.C. 1301:7-7-03)
§ 1505.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues. In addition, the offender shall be
required to pay the cost of proper disposal of the materials burned. The cost
of proper disposal of the materials burned shall be the amount it would have
cost to dispose of the materials in a manner that is consistent with the air,
water and solid waste laws, ordinances and regulations of the municipality and
the state.
CHAPTER 1519: FIREWORKS
Section
1519.01   Definitions
1519.02   Public exhibition permit required; fee; bond; records
1519.03   Unlawful conduct by exhibitor
1519.04   Possession, sale or discharge prohibited; exceptions
1519.05   Application
1519.06   Manufacturing or wholesale sale without a license; prohibitions
1519.07   Wholesaling without a license; prohibitions
1519.08   Purchasers to comply with law; unauthorized purchases
1519.09   Unauthorized transportation or shipping
1519.10   Forfeiture and disposal
1519.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Arrests, seizure of fireworks by certified fire safety inspector, see R.C. §
3743.68
   Conflict of Fire Marshal’s rules with rules of Ohio Board of Building
Standards, see R.C. § 3781.11(D)
   Manufacturers to comply with building and zoning ordinances, see R.C. §
3743.06(F)
   Wholesalers to comply with building and zoning ordinances, see R.C. §
3743.19(G)
§ 1519.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this section, unless otherwise provided:
   1.3G FIREWORKS. Display fireworks consistent with regulations of the United
States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation division
1.3 in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
   1.4G FIREWORKS. Consumer fireworks consistent with regulations of the United
States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation division
1.4 in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
   BEER and INTOXICATING LIQUOR. Have the same meaning as in R.C. § 4301.01.
   BOOBY TRAP. A small tube that has a string protruding from both ends that
has a friction-sensitive composition and that is ignited by pulling the ends of
the string.
   CIGARETTE LOAD. A small wooden peg that is coated with a small quantity of
explosive composition and that is ignited in a cigarette.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DISCHARGE SITE. An area immediately surrounding the mortars used to fire
aerial shells.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation, except
ordinary matches and except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80.
   FIREWORKS INCIDENT. Any action or omission that occurs at a fireworks
exhibition that results in injury or death, or a substantial risk of injury or
death, to any person, and that involves either of the following:
      (1)   The handling or other use, or the results of the handling or other
use, of fireworks or associated equipment or other materials; or
      (2)   The failure of any person to comply with any applicable requirement
imposed by this section or R.C. Chapter 3743, or any applicable rule adopted
under this section or R.C. Chapter 3743.
   FIREWORKS INCIDENT SITE. A discharge site or other location at a fireworks
exhibition where a fireworks incident occurs, a location where an injury or
death associated with a fireworks incident occurs, or a location where evidence
of a fireworks incident or an injury or death associated with a fireworks
incident is found.
   FIREWORKS PLANT. All buildings and other structures in which the
manufacturing of fireworks, or the storage or sale of manufactured fireworks by
a manufacturer, takes place.
   FOUNTAIN DEVICE. Means a specific type of 1.4G firework that meets all of
the following criteria:
      (1)   It is nonaerial and nonreport producing.
      (2)   It is recognized and manufactured in accordance with sections 3.1.1
and 3.5 of APA standard 87-1 (2001 edition).
      (3)   It is a ground-based or hand-held sparkler with one or more tubes
containing a nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks
upon ignition, with or without additional effects that may include a colored
flame, audible crackling effect, audible whistle effect, or smoke.
      (4)   It contains not more than 75 grams of the nonexplosive pyrotechnic
mixture in any individual tube and not more than 500 grams or less for multiple
tubes.
   HIGHWAY. Any public street, road, alley, way, lane or other public
thoroughfare.
   LICENSED BUILDING. A building on the licensed premises of a licensed
manufacturer or wholesaler of fireworks that is approved for occupancy by the
building official having jurisdiction.
   LICENSED EXHIBITOR OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED EXHIBITOR. A person licensed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55.
   LICENSED FOUNTAIN DEVICE RETAILER or LICENSED RETAILER. Means a person
licensed pursuant to R.C. § 3743.26.
   LICENSED MANUFACTURER OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED MANUFACTURER. A person
licensed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.02 through 3743.08.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The real estate upon which a licensed manufacturer or
wholesaler of fireworks conducts business.
   LICENSED WHOLESALER OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED WHOLESALER. A person licensed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.15 through 3743.21.
   LIST OF LICENSED EXHIBITORS. The list required by R.C. § 3743.51(C).
   LIST OF LICENSED MANUFACTURERS. The list required by R.C. § 3743.03(C).
   LIST OF LICENSED WHOLESALERS. The list required by R.C. § 3743.16(C).
   MANUFACTURING OF FIREWORKS. The making of fireworks from raw materials, none
of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, or the processing of
fireworks.
   NAVIGABLE WATERS. Any body of water susceptible of being used in its
ordinary condition as a highway of commerce over which trade and travel is or
may be conducted in the customary modes, but does not include a body of water
that is not capable of navigation by barges, tugboats, and other large vessels.
   NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS.
      (1)   Devices that produce a small report intended to surprise the user,
including but not limited to booby traps, cigarette loads, party poppers and
snappers;
      (2)   Snakes or glow worms;
      (3)   Smoke devices; and
      (4)   Trick matches.
   PARTY POPPER. A small plastic or paper item that contains not more than 16
milligrams of friction- sensitive explosive composition that is ignited by
pulling a string protruding from the item, and from which paper streamers are
expelled when the item is ignited.
   PROCESSING OF FIREWORKS. The making of fireworks from materials all or part
of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, but does not include the
mere packaging or repackaging of fireworks.
   RAILROAD. Any railway or railroad that carries freight or passengers for
hire, but does not include auxiliary tracks, spurs and sidings installed and
primarily used in serving a mine, quarry or plant.
   RETAIL SALE or SELL AT RETAIL. A sale of fireworks to a purchaser who
intends to use the fireworks and not to resell them.
   SMOKE DEVICE. A tube or sphere that contains pyrotechnic composition that,
upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
   SNAKE or GLOW WORM. A device that consists of a pressed pellet of
pyrotechnic composition that produces a large snake-like ash upon burning,
which ash expands in length as the pellet burns.
   SNAPPER. A small paper-wrapped item that contains a minute quantity of
explosive composition coated on small bits of sand and that, when dropped,
implodes.
   STORAGE LOCATION. A single parcel or contiguous parcels of real estate
approved by the Ohio Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. § 3743.04(I) or R.C. §
3743.17(F) that are separate from a licensed premises containing a retail
showroom, and which parcel or parcels a licensed manufacturer or wholesaler of
fireworks may use only for the distribution, possession, and storage of
fireworks in accordance with this chapter.
   TRICK MATCH. A kitchen or book match that is coated with a small quantity of
explosive composition and that, upon ignition, produces a small report or a
shower of sparks.
   WHOLESALE SALE or SELL AT WHOLESALE. A sale of fireworks to a purchaser who
intends to resell the fireworks so purchased.
   WIRE SPARKLER. A sparkler consisting of a wire or stick coated with a
nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon ignition
and that contains no more than 100 grams of this mixture.
(R.C. § 3743.01)
§ 1519.02 PUBLIC EXHIBITION PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE; BOND; RECORDS.
   (a)   An exhibitor of fireworks licensed under R.C. §§ 3743.50 through
3743.55 who wishes to conduct a public fireworks exhibition shall apply for
approval to conduct the exhibition to the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer
and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
having jurisdiction over the premises.
   (b)   The approval required by §
1519.08(a) of this section shall be evidenced by the Fire Chief or fire
prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or similar chief law
enforcement officer, signing a permit for the exhibition. Any exhibitor of
fireworks who wishes to conduct a public fireworks exhibition may obtain a copy
of the form from the State Fire Marshal or, if available, from the Fire Chief,
a fire prevention officer, the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or a designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief
law enforcement officer.
   (c)   Before a permit is signed and issued to a licensed exhibitor of
fireworks, the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation with the
Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of
the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall inspect
the premises on which the exhibition will take place and shall determine that,
in fact, the applicant for the permit is a licensed exhibitor of fireworks.
Each applicant shall show his or her license as an exhibitor of fireworks to
the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer.
   (d)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and the Police Chief or
other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police
Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall give approval to
conduct a public fireworks exhibition only if satisfied, based on the
inspection, that the premises on which the exhibition will be conducted allow
the exhibitor to comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to R.C. § 3743.53(B) and (E) and that the applicant is, in fact, a
licensed exhibitor of fireworks. The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in
consultation with the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer or with the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, may inspect the premises immediately prior to the
exhibition to determine if the exhibitor has complied with the rules, and may
revoke a permit for noncompliance with the rules.
   (e)   If the Council has prescribed a fee for the issuance of a permit for a
public fireworks exhibition, the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and
Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or their designee,
shall not issue a permit until the exhibitor pays the requisite fee.
   (f)   Each exhibitor shall provide an indemnity bond in the amount of at
least $1,000,000 with surety satisfactory to the Fire Chief or fire prevention
officer and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer, conditioned for the payment of all final judgments that may be
rendered against the exhibitor on account of injury, death or loss to person or
property emanating from the fireworks exhibitor, or proof of insurance coverage
of at least $1,000,000 for liability arising from injury, death or loss of
persons or property emanating from the fireworks exhibition. The Council may
require the exhibitor to provide an indemnity bond or proof of insurance
coverage in amounts greater than those required by this division. The Fire
Chief or fire prevention officer and Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or their designee, shall not issue a permit until the
exhibitor provides the bond or proof of the insurance coverage required by this
division or by the Council.
   (g)   Each permit for a fireworks exhibition issued by the Fire Chief or
fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief
law enforcement officer, shall contain a distinct number, designate the
municipality and identify the certified fire safety inspector, Fire Chief, or
fire prevention officer who will be present before, during and after the
exhibition, where appropriate. A copy of each permit issued shall be forwarded
by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, issuing it to the State Fire Marshal. A
permit is not transferable or assignable.
   (h)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, shall keep a record of issued permits
for fireworks exhibitions. In this list, the Fire Chief, fire prevention
officer, Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
shall list the name of the exhibitor, his or her license number, the premises
on which the exhibition will be conducted, the date and time of the exhibition,
and the number and political subdivision designation of the permit issued to
the exhibitor for the exhibition.
   (i)   The Council shall require that a certified fire safety inspector, Fire
Chief or fire prevention officer be present before, during and after the
exhibition, and shall require the certified fire safety inspector, Fire Chief
or fire prevention officer to inspect the premises where the exhibition is to
take place and determine whether the exhibition is in compliance with this
section and R.C. Chapter 3743.
(R.C. § 3743.54)
§ 1519.03 UNLAWFUL CONDUCT BY EXHIBITOR.
   (a)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall fail to comply with the
applicable requirements of the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant
to R.C. § 3743.53(B) and (E) or to comply with R.C. § 3743.53(C) and (D).
   (b)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall conduct a fireworks
exhibition unless a permit has been secured for the exhibition pursuant to R.C.
§ 3743.54 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or if a permit so
secured is revoked by a Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation
with a Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or with a
designee of a Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
pursuant to those sections.
   (c)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall acquire fireworks for use at
a fireworks exhibition other than in accordance with R.C. §§ 3743.54 and
3743.55, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (d)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks or other person associated with the
conduct of a fireworks exhibition shall have possession or control of, or be
under the influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer or controlled substance
while on the premises on which the exhibition is being conducted.
   (e)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall permit an employee to assist
the licensed exhibitor in conducting fireworks exhibitions unless the employee
is registered with the State Fire Marshal under R.C. § 3743.56.
(R.C. § 3743.64)
§ 1519.04 POSSESSION, SALE OR DISCHARGE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   No person shall possess fireworks in this municipality or shall
possess for sale or sell fireworks in this municipality, except a licensed
manufacturer of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.02 through 3743.08, a
licensed wholesaler of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.15 through
3743.21, a shipping permit holder as authorized by R.C. § 3743.40, an out-of-
state resident as authorized by R.C. § 3743.44, a resident of this state as
authorized by R.C. § 3743.45, or a licensed exhibitor of fireworks as
authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55, or as authorized by any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of these statutes,
and except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (b)   Except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and except for licensed exhibitors of fireworks authorized
to conduct a fireworks exhibition pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, no person shall discharge,
ignite or explode any fireworks in this municipality.
   (c)   No person shall use in a theater or public hall what is technically
known as fireworks showers or a mixture containing potassium chlorate and
sulphur.
   (d)   No person shall sell fireworks of any kind to a person under 18 years
of age. No person under 18 years of age shall enter a fireworks sales showroom
unless that person is accompanied by a parent, legal guardian or other
responsible adult. No person under 18 years of age shall touch or possess
fireworks on a licensed premises without the consent of the licensee. A
licensee may eject any person from a licensed premises that is in any way
disruptive to the safe operation of the premises.
   (e)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 3743.44, no person, other than
a licensed manufacturer, licensed wholesaler, licensed exhibitor or shipping
permit holder shall possess 1.3G fireworks in this municipality.
(R.C. § 3743.65(A) - (E))
§ 1519.05 APPLICATION.
   This section does not prohibit or apply to the following:
   (a)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use in
emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling devices and distress signals for
marine, aviation or highway use;
   (b)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
fusees, torpedoes or other signals necessary for the safe operation of
railroads;
   (c)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
blank cartridges in connection with theaters or shows, or in connection with
athletics as signals for ceremonial purposes;
   (d)   The manufacture for, the transportation, storage, possession or use
by, or the sale to the armed forces of the United States and the militia of
this state, as recognized by the Adjutant General of Ohio, of pyrotechnic
devices;
   (e)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or plastic
caps containing 0.25 grains or less of explosive material are used, provided
that they are constructed so that a hand cannot come into contact with a cap
when it is in place for explosion, or apply to the manufacture, sale,
possession, transportation, storage or use of those caps;
   (f)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
novelties and trick noisemakers, auto burglar alarms or model rockets and model
rocket motors designed, sold and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable
aero models;
   (g)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
wire sparklers;
   (h)   The conduct of radio-controlled special effect exhibitions that use an
explosive black powder charge of not more than one-quarter pound per charge,
and that are not connected in any manner to propellant charges; provided, that
the exhibition complies with all of the following:
      (1)   No explosive aerial display is conducted in the exhibition;
      (2)   The exhibition is separated from spectators by not less than 200
feet; and
      (3)   The person conducting the exhibition complies with regulations of
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms of the United States Department of
the Treasury and the United States Department of Transportation with respect to
the storage and transport of the explosive black powder used in the exhibition.
(R.C. § 3743.80)
§ 1519.06 MANUFACTURING OR WHOLESALE SALE WITHOUT A LICENSE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks shall knowingly fail to comply
with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. § 3743.05 or
the requirements of R.C. § 3743.06.
   (b)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks shall fail to maintain complete
inventory, wholesale sale and retail records as required by R.C. § 3743.07, or
to permit an inspection of these records or the premises of a fireworks plant
or the wholesaler pursuant to R.C. § 3743.08.
   (c)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks shall fail to comply with an
order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C. § 3743.08(B)(1) within
the specified period of time.
   (d)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks shall fail to comply with an
order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C. § 3743.08(B)(2) until
the nonconformities are eliminated, corrected or otherwise remedied or the 72-
hour period specified in those divisions has expired, whichever occurs first.
   (e)   No person shall smoke or shall carry a pipe, cigarette or cigar, or a
match, lighter, other flame- producing item, or open flame on, or shall carry a
concealed source of ignition into, the premises of a fireworks plant, except as
smoking is authorized in specified lunchrooms or restrooms by a manufacturer
pursuant to R.C. § 3743.06(C).
   (f)   No person shall have possession or control of, or be under the
influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer or controlled substance while on
the premises of a fireworks plant.
(RC § 3743.60(E) - (J))
§ 1519.07 WHOLESALING WITHOUT A LICENSE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   No licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall knowingly fail to comply
with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. § 3743.18 or
the requirements of R.C. § 3743.19.
   (b)   No licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall fail to maintain complete
inventory, wholesale sale and retail records as required by R.C. § 3743.20, or
to permit an inspection of these records or the premises of a fireworks plant
or the wholesaler pursuant to R.C. § 3743.21.
   (c)   No licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall fail to comply with an order
of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C. § 3743.21(B)(1) within the
specified period of time.
   (d)   No licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall fail to comply with an order
of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C. § 3743.21(B)(2) until the
nonconformities are eliminated, corrected or otherwise remedied or the 72-hour
period specified in those divisions has expired, whichever occurs first.
   (e)   No person shall smoke or shall carry a pipe, cigarette or cigar, or a
match, lighter, other flame- producing item, or open flame on, or shall carry a
concealed source of ignition into, the premises of a wholesaler of fireworks,
except as smoking is authorized in specified lunchrooms or restrooms by a
wholesaler pursuant to R.C. § 3743.19(D).
   (f)   No person shall have possession or control of, or be under the
influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer or controlled substance while on
the premises of a wholesaler of fireworks.
(R.C. § 3743.61(E) - (J))
§ 1519.08 PURCHASERS TO COMPLY WITH LAW; UNAUTHORIZED PURCHASES.
   (a)   No person who resides in another state and purchases fireworks in this
state shall obtain possession of the fireworks in this state unless the person
complies with R.C. § 3743.44.
   (b)   No person who resides in another state and who purchases fireworks in
this state shall obtain possession of fireworks in this state other than from a
licensed manufacturer or wholesaler, or fail, when transporting 1.3G fireworks,
to transport them directly out of this state within 72 hours after the time of
their purchase. No person shall give or sell to any other person in this state
fireworks that the person has acquired in this state.
   (c)   No person who resides in this state and purchases fireworks in this
state shall obtain possession of the fireworks in this state unless the person
complies with R.C. § 3743.45.
   (d)   No person who resides in this state and who purchases fireworks in
this state under R.C. § 3743.45 shall obtain possession of the fireworks in
this state other than from a licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler, or
fail, when transporting the fireworks, to transport them directly out of this
state within 48 hours after the time of their purchase. No person shall give or
sell to any other person in this state fireworks that the person has acquired
in this state.
(R.C. § 3743.63)
§ 1519.09 UNAUTHORIZED TRANSPORTATION OR SHIPPING.
   (a)   No person shall transport fireworks in this municipality except in
accordance with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. §
3743.58.
   (b)   As used in this division, FIREWORKS includes only 1.3G and 1.4G
fireworks. No person shall ship fireworks into this municipality by mail,
parcel post or common carrier unless the person possesses a valid shipping
permit issued under R.C. § 3743.40, and the fireworks are shipped directly to
the holder of a license issued under R.C. § 3743.03, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
   (c)   No person shall ship fireworks within this municipality by mail,
parcel post or common carrier unless the fireworks are shipped directly to the
holder of a license issued under R.C. § 3743.01, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
(R.C. § 3743.66)
§ 1519.10 FORFEITURE AND DISPOSAL.
   Fireworks manufactured, sold, possessed, transported or used in violation of
this section shall be forfeited by the offender. The Fire Marshal’s office or
certified fire safety inspector’s office shall dispose of seized fireworks
pursuant to the procedures specified in R.C. §§ 2981.11 to 2981.13 for the
disposal of forfeited property by law enforcement agencies, and the Fire
Marshal or that office is not liable for claims for the loss of or damages to
the seized fireworks.
(R.C. § 3743.68(B))
§ 1519.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b) or (c) of this section,
whoever violates any provisions of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
   (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
a violation of R.C. § 3743.60(I) or R.C. § 3743.61(I), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a violation of §
1519.06(e) or §
1519.07(e) of this chapter is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
   (c)   Whoever violates §
1519.03(a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. In
addition to any other penalties that may be imposed on a licensed exhibitor of
fireworks under this division and unless the third sentence of this division
applies, the person’s license as an exhibitor of fireworks or as an assistant
exhibitor of fireworks shall be suspended, and the person is ineligible to
apply for either type of license, for a period of five years. If the violation
of §
1519.03(a) of this section results in serious physical harm to persons or
serious physical harm to property, the person’s license as an exhibitor of
fireworks or as an assistant exhibitor of fireworks shall be revoked, and that
person is ineligible to apply for a license as or to be licensed as an
exhibitor of fireworks or as an assistant exhibitor of fireworks in this state.
(R.C § 3743.99(C), (D))
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
The Codified Ordinances of Mason cover all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature. The provisions of such general and permanent ordinances are
set forth in full in the codified ordinances. References must be made
frequently to many special ordinances - particularly those related to property,
such as dedications, vacating of property, easements, purchase, sale and the
like. In the following Tables A through I, all such ordinances are listed.
These tables list ordinances chronologically by subject, and include both a
citation to and brief description of each ordinance.
         
TABLE A.   FRANCHISES
         
TABLE B.   EASEMENTS
         
TABLE C.   VACATING OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
         
TABLE D.   DEDICATION AND PLAT APPROVAL
         
TABLE E.   ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY
            
TABLE F.   LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY
         
TABLE G.   STREET GRADE LEVELS AND CHANGE OF STREET NAME
         
TABLE H.   ANNEXATION AND DETACHMENT OF TERRITORY
         
TABLE I.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE A: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
                      S.S. Wyer - Right to lay pipes, mains and other
154       7-8-1912    appliances in streets and other public ways for a natural
                      gas distribution system.
155       7-8-1912    S.S. Wyer - Regulates rates and terms for supplying
                      natural gas.
174       4-22-1918   Valley Telephone Co. - Right to construct and maintain an
                      underground system of wires, pipes and conduits.
                      Union Gas and Electric Co. - Right to use streets, alleys
184       11-13-1922  and public ways for distribution and transmission of
                      electricity for 25 years.
185       11-13-1922  Union Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and terms
                      for electric service for ten years.
186       11-13-1922  Union Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and terms
                      for street lighting for five years.
199       4-23-1928   Union Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and terms
                      for street lighting for five years.
219       8-24-1931   Mason Water Co. - Right to operate and maintain a water
                      works and water distribution system for 30 years.
Res. A-8  5-24-1932   Mason Water Co. - Rental charges for fire hydrant water
                      supply; amends Ord. 219.
                      Union Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and terms
A-29      7-23-1934   for electrical energy supply to water pumping plant for
                      five years.
A-33      4-22-1935   Union Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and terms
                      for street lighting for five years.
                      Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and
A-89      11-27-1939  terms for electrical energy supply to water pumping plant
                      for five years.
A-98      3-25-1940   Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and
                      terms for street lighting for five years.
A-102     8-26-1940   Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and
                      terms for electric service to 12-13-1947.
                      Ohio Central Telephone Co. - Right to install and
Res. B-86 6-26-1944   maintain poles on south side of Church Street from
                      Bethany Pike to Pond Street.
                      Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and
-94       12-18-1944  terms for electrical energy supply to water pumping plant
                      for five years.
-95       12-18-1944  Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and
                      terms for street lighting for five years.
                      Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Right to use streets
C-54      12-22-1947  and other public ways for an electrical distribution and
                      transmission system for 25 years.
C-55      12-22-1947  Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and
                      terms for electric service for five years.
                      Ohio Central Telephone Corp. - Right to construct and
C-80      6-10-1949   maintain poles and cable lines on south side of Main
                      Street and across Main Street for 20 years.
                      Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and
C-88      1-23-1950   terms for electrical energy supply to water pumping plant
                      for five years.
C-89      1-30-1950   Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and
                      terms for street lighting for five years.
                      Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and
D-23      1-28-1952   terms for electric service for three years; repeals Ord.
                      C-55.
D-31      6-23-1952   Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and
                      terms for street lighting to 1-30-1955.
D-65      1-24-1955   Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and
                      terms for street lighting for five years.
D-66      1-24-1955   Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and
                      terms for electric service for five years.
E-11      4-22-1957   Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and
                      terms for electric service for five years.
E-93      1-25-1960   Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and
                      terms for street lighting for five years.
                      Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Right to use streets
F-4       6-27-1960   and other public ways for a gas transport and
                      distribution system for 25 years.
F-12      7-25-1960   Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and
                      terms for supplying gas for five years.
F-81      11-26-1962  Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and
                      terms for electric service for five years.
                      Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and
F-86      11-26-1962  terms for mercury vapor street lighting units (2,500 and
                      6,000 lumens) and amends Ord. E-93.
                      Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Additional street
F-87      11-26-1962  lighting units at same rates and terms as in Ord. E-93
                      and Ord. F-86.
                      Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Additional street
G-36      5-27-1963   lighting units at same rates and terms as in Ord. E-93
                      and Ord. F-86.
                      Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Additional street
G-54      1-27-1964   lighting units at same rates and terms as in Ord. E-93
                      and Ord. F-86.
                      Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Additional street
G-64      3-23-1964   lighting units at same rates and terms as in Ord. E-93
                      and Ord. F-86.
H-1       1-25-1965   Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and
                      terms for street lighting for five years.
H-29      8-9-1965    Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and
                      terms for supplying gas for five years.
H-44      12-27-1965  Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Additional street
                      lighting units at same rates and terms as in Ord. H-1.
45-1967   8-28-1967   Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Additional street
                      lighting units at same rates and terms as in Ord. H-1.
47-1968   9-23-1968   Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and
                      terms for electric service for five years.
                      Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and
48-1968   9-23-1968   terms for street lighting for five years; repeals Ord. H-
                      1.
                      Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Additional street
58-1968   10-28-1968  lighting units at same rates and terms as in Ord. 48-
                      1968.
                      Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Additional street
71-1968   11-25-1968  lighting units at same rates and terms as in Ord. 48-
                      1968.
58-1970   11-23-1970  Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and
                      terms for supplying gas for five years.
                      Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Right to use streets
30-1973   2-26-1973   and other public ways for an electrical distribution and
                      transmission system for 25 years.
                      Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and
61-1973   7-9-1973    terms for sodium vapor street lighting and amends Ord.
                      48-1968.
27-1974   6-10-1974   Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. - Regulates rates and
                      terms for electric service for five years.
88-1978   8-14-1978   Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. for street lighting for
                      three years.
76-1979   7-9-1979    Warner Cable Corp. for 15-year nonexclusive franchise for
                      cable television system.
36-1984   4-23-1984   Warner Amex Corp. for settlement procedure regarding rate
                      increases.
                      To Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. for 25 years to place
23-1985   5-13-1985   gas transmission and distribution facilities in public
                      streets and places.
88-127    11-14-1988  Contract with Regional Council of Governments to
                      administer cable television franchise Ord. 76-1979.
90-15     2-12-1990   Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. to install additional
                      street lights in Concord Crossing Subdivision.
91-18     2-11-1991   Amends Ord. 88-127.
94-82     7-25-1994   Warner Cable Communications for three-month extension of
                      current franchise agreement.
94-89     8-22-1994   Time Warner Cable for 15 year nonexclusive franchise
                      agreement for cable television system.
                     
 
TABLE B: EASEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
      4-22-  Grants easement to the Archbishop of the Diocese of Cincinnati for construction
C-24  1946   of storm sewer in an alley behind Reading Road and West Street and between Lots
             284 through 286 and Lots 289 and 296.
C-40  12-23- Accepts easement from Joseph L. and Fannie B. Davis for water works purposes
      1946   and water line to new well.
Res.  2-23-  Releases right of purchase of .408 acres being part of Sections 35 and 36 in
D-42  1953   Deerfield Township and between the Miami Rivers, but retaining easement rights
             acquired from the now defunct Mason Water Co.
             Clarifies old easement, in Res. D-42, from Harry L. and Anna V. Palmer for
Res.  11-26- water line, easement now held by the village and being 20 feet wide and
E-40  1957   extending across the Palmer farm from village wells to U.S. Route 42 and over
             property of William V. Arnold.
G-19  2-25-  Appropriates easement 20 feet long by ten feet wide from White, Steger and
      1963   Scherbauer for sanitary sewer on part of Lot 1.
G-20  2-25-  Appropriates easement 233.80 feet long by ten feet wide from Edith Baas
      1963   Lindemann for sanitary sewer on part of Lot 233.
G-21  2-25-  Appropriates easement 246.59 feet long by ten feet wide from James K. and
      1963   Florence Overby for sanitary sewer on part of Lot 20, Crestfield Subdivision.
      2-25-  Appropriates easement 200 feet long by ten feet wide from William E. and
G-22  1963   Barbara A. Emmons for sanitary sewer on part of Lot 171, Third Addition, Mason
             Heights Subdivision.
G-23  2-25-  Appropriates easement 189 feet long by ten feet wide from Russell C. and
      1963   Georgeanna Giehls for sanitary sewer on part of Lot 107.
G-24  2-25-  Appropriates easement 83 feet long by ten feet wide from Erval R. and Peggy A.
      1963   Hamm for sanitary sewer on part of Lot 25, Cowan Subdivision.
G-32  4-8-   Appropriates two easements:
      1963
           (1) 867 feet long by ten feet wide;
           (2) 276 feet long by ten feet wide from the Mason Canning Co. for sanitary
             sewer partly in Section 36, Deerfield Township and partly in the village.
G-41  6-24-  Appropriates easement 158 feet long by 20 feet wide from Wm. G. Hansford and
      1963   Patricia R. Trent for sanitary sewer in part of Section 35, Deerfield Township.
50-   10-7-  Accepts grant and easement from the Stearns and Foster Co. for water line and
1968  1968   12 foot easement along northerly line of property on south side of Bethany
             Road.
             Grants 30 foot easement to Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. to construct,
35-   8-10-  repair, operate and maintain poles, wires, cables and other incidental fixtures
1970  1970   across municipal property fronting 50 feet on east side of Mason-Montgomery
             Road.
49-   5-14-  Accepts 500 by ten foot easement from Phillip H. and Betty M. Hegner for water
1973  1973   and sewer lines along northeasterly property line.
1-    1-28-  Grants easement to Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. over and above westerly part
1974  1974   of Lot 239, Block G, Part 1 of Olympia Fields Subdivision for construction,
             operation and maintenance of electrical transmission and distribution system.
35-   4-12-  From Durrell and Hunt for water line purposes.
1976  1976
57-   6-14-  Purchase for sewer and water purposes on Lela Drive.
1976  1976
94-   11-22- Extension of water service to Hill residence on Mason-Bethany Road in exchange
1976  1976   for easement rights.
63-   9-12-  To Cincinnati Gas and Electric Co. for electrical fixtures along northwest side
1977  1977   of U.S. Route 42.
11-   2-27-  Appropriation of permanent and temporary highway easements.
1978  1978
26-   3-27-  Along Western Row Road from Durrell and Hunt.
1978  1978
132-  10-23- For drainage channels relocation east of Indianwood Boulevard.
1978  1978
133-  10-23- For a storm sewer east of Southeast Street.
1978  1978
134-  10-23- For a storm sewer south of Mason-Kings Mills Road north of Washington Way.
1978  1978
164-  1-8-   For 15-inch sanitary sewer line south of Fairway Drive.
1978  1979
33-   4-14-  For construction of the Crooked Tree water tower and water lines and the
1980  1980   Western Row Road sanitary sewer facilities.
94-   11-10- Purchase of a waterline easement from Conrail.
1980  1980
3-    1-12-  Accepts 20 foot sewer easement on south side of Parkside Drive west of King
1981  1981   Mills Road.
25-   3-23-  Accepts easement over 0.219 acres adjacent to U.S. Route 42 south of State
1981  1981   Route 741.
80-   10-12- Accepts easement of sanitary sewers of Deerfield Common Senior Citizens Housing
1981  1981   Project.
9-    1-25-  Appropriation of 0.186 acre tract of land from Vernon and Mary Mount for
1982  1982   improvement of the Main Street and Mason-Montgomery Road intersection.
10-   1-25-  Appropriation of 0.012 acre tract from Reber Auto Body and Repair, Inc., for
1982  1982   improvement of the Main Street and Mason-Montgomery Road intersection.
11-   1-25-  Appropriation of 0.006 acre tract of land from James R. and Ann Lee Martin for
1982  1982   improvement of the Main Street and Mason-Montgomery Road intersection.
12-   1-25-  Appropriation of 0.006 acre tract of land from James E. Dapp for improvement of
1982  1982   the Main Street and Mason-Montgomery Road intersection.
22-   4-12-  Accepts sewer easement from the Stearns and Foster Co.
1982  1982
42-   5-24-  Grants easement to Mariner Communications regarding the Tylersville Road right-
1982  1982   of-way.
96-   9-26-  Accepts sewer easement from Mason Properties.
1983  1983
112-  11-28- Grants easement to Seven Hills Communications Limited for Tylersville Road
1983  1983   right-of-way.
85-   9-15-  Grants easement to Seven Hills Communications Limited for Tylersville Road
1984  1984   right-of-way.
97-   10-29- Purchase from Kings Mills Farms, Inc. of right- of-way easements for
1984  1984   construction of Water Park Drive and installation of a water main, sanitary
             sewer and storm sewer.
32-   6-10-  Purchase from Ohio Mattress Co. to install a railroad line to the city garage
1985  1985   property.
41-   6-24-  Temporary water line easement on Western Row Road between Mason-Montgomery Road
1985  1985   and proposed Innovation Boulevard.
42-   6-24-  Amends Ord. 32-1985 to purchase fee simple title to 0.5739 acres from Stearns
1985  1985   and Foster to install a railroad line to city garage property.
86-6  1-13-  Purchase of easements from Herbert H. and Henrietta Biehle for sanitary sewer
      1986   pipelines.
89-73 6-12-  Conveyance of 20-foot wide water line easement to Ryland-Sancuro.
      1989
89-   10-23- Authorizes installing fabric storefront awning at Mason Frame Gallery and
137   1989   Frenchs.
90-   2-11-  Sanitary and waterline main easement on west side of Snider Road.
148   1991
91-29 3-11-  Sanitary sewer line easement east of Kings Mills Road.
      1991
91-41 4-8-   Water line easement along Socialville-Foster Road.
      1991
91-71 6-24-  Use of right-of-way on U.S. Route 42 at 115 West Main Street granted to
      1991   property owner.
91-72 7-8-   Vacating portion of sanitary sewer easement; accepts new sanitary sewer
      1991   easement east of Innovation Way.
91-96 9-23-  Use of right-of-way granted to property owner.
      1991
91-   11-25- Easement plat for Shadycreek Apartments for sanitary sewer, water line and
115   1991   storm drainage purposes.
92-   9-28-  Easements for Mason-Montgomery Road Water Line Improvement Project.
111   1992
93-9  1-25-  From Mason Volunteer Fire Co., Inc. for Mason- Montgomery Road water line
      1993   improvement project.
93-18 2-8-   From Hayes for relocation of city utilities.
      1993
93-50 5-10-  Appropriation of easements for 30-inch trunk sewer line project near southeast
      1993   intersection of U.S. Route 42 and State Route 741.
93-57 5-24-  From Schutte for Socialville-Foster Road water line project.
      1993
93-58 5-24-  From Erbeck Farms, Inc. and Alvin Erbeck for 30-inch trunk sewer line project.
      1993
93-59 6-14-  From Eves for 30-inch trunk sewer line project.
      1993
93-69 6-28-  From MCI Telecommunications Corporation for Socialville-Foster Road water line
      1993   project.
94-25 2-28-  Sanitary sewer line easement at 4070 Stitt Road.
      1994
94-30 3-14-  Acquires easements owned by David A. and Sandra L. Eves over city property west
      1994   of Sewer Treatment Plant.
95-84 8-28-  Permanent take and temporary construction easement from Weller for Mason-
      1995   Montgomery Road widening project.
95-85 8-28-  Permanent take and temporary construction easement from Heritage Presbyterian
      1995   Church for Mason-Montgomery Road widening project.
95-91 8-28-  Permanent take and temporary construction easements from Zopff and Western Row
      1995   Land Developer’s Inc. for Mason-Montgomery Road widening project.
95-   12-11- Amends Ord. 95-91 re payment.
155   1995
98-   7-27-  Accepts dedication of easement for Greenbrier II on Snider Road, north of
103   1998   Tylersville Road (27.016 acres).
99-67 5-10-  Accepts dedication of easement for Greenbrier II on Snider Road, north of
      1999   Tylersville Road.
99-82 6-14-  Dedication of a sanitary sewer easement for Nannalee Ring on State Route 741.
      1999
99-83 6-14-  Acquires an easement necessary for the water line connection with Everybody’s
      1999   Farm Inc.
99-84 6-14-  Acquires certain easements across real property which are necessary for the
      1999   Cincinnati Water Works Connection.
99-85 6-14-  Acquires certain easements across real property which are necessary for the
      1999   Northwest Mason Sanitary Sewer Main.
2000- 1-10-  Accepts dedication of an easement for Greenbrier Subdivision, Phase 2, Section
5     2000   2A.
2000- 3-27-  Purchase of an easement for municipal purposes abutting on the west side of
38    2000   U.S. Route 42 south of Snider Road and north of Donna Jean Boulevard.
2000- 9-10-  Accepts a permanent highway easement from Jeffrey Benson and Aquiport/Ansdell
130   2000   at the corner of State Route 741 and Bethany Road.
2000- 9-10-  Acquires easements necessary for the South 42 Trunk Sewer Project.
131   2000
2000- 10-9-  Release of easements across real property located at the intersection of
150   2000   Parkside Drive and Kingsmill Road.
2001- 1-8-   Authorizes acquisition of easements necessary for the construction of a water
05    2001   main from Mason- Montgomery Road to Cloverwood Drive.
2001- 2-12-  Approves plat of easement for sanitary sewer at southwest corner of State Route
29    2001   741 and Kings Mills Road.
2001- 3-26-  Grants right-of-way easement along south side of Mason Road across former
43    2001   Hoskins property.
2001- 4-9-   Permanent takes and temporary construction easements for the Mason-Montgomery
56    2001   Road widening project.
2001- 4-23-  Permanent takes and temporary construction easements for the Mason-Montgomery
66    2001   Road widening project.
2001- 5-14-  Permanent takes and temporary construction easements for the Mason-Montgomery
83    2001   Road widening project.
2001- 5-14-  Grants right-of-way and easement for the transmission and distribution of
90    2001   electrical energy and for telecommunications purposes to the Cincinnati Gas and
             Electric Company.
2001- 6-25-  Acquires easements necessary for construction of force main from the water
103   2001   treatment plant to the trunk sewer feeding the State Route 741 lift station.
2001- 12-10- Permanent takes and temporary construction easements for realignment of Snider
213   2001   Road and U.S. Route 42.
2002- 1-14-  Right-of-way and easements for relocation of telecommunication lines to United
07    2002   Telephone Company of Ohio and Sprint Communications along the west property
             line of fire station #51.
2002- 1-28-  Easements for water, utility and ingress/egress at the Hillside Terrace
19    2002   Condominiums on Donna Jean Boulevard.
2002- 2-11-  Easement for construction of U.S. Route 42 sanitary trunk sewer project.
31    2002
2002- 3-11-  Approves plat of easement for watermain through the Borden Inc. site.
45    2002
2002- 6-10-  Approves plat of easement for Pebble Creek of Mason, Phase 2.
46    2002
2002- 10-28- Approves sanitary easement dedication of the Heritage Club, Section 10.
138   2002
2002- 11-11- Approves easement assignment for the sanitary sewer serving the Rosemont Manor
143   2002   Subdivision.
2002- 11-25- Authorizes temporary construction easement for property located at 5501 Cox-
152   2002   Smith Road.
2002- 11-25- Approves easement dedication of the storm sewer across Betty Ann Baysore’s
153   2002   property at 414 South West Street.
2002- 12-9-  Accepts easements located on the southern property line of the WLW Clear
160   2002   Channel site abutting Tylersville Road.
2002- 12-9-  Accepts easements on the southern property line of the Klekamp site located on
161   2002   the northwest corner of Tylersville Road and U.S. Route 42.
2003- 1-13-  Approves waterline easement plat for Great American Insurance Company.
05    2003
2003- 4-14-  Approves sanitary sewer easement for Cedar Village PUD.
32    2003
2003- 6-9-   Permanent take and temporary construction easements for the Mason-Montgomery
67    2003   Road widening project from Frances H. Gilbert.
2003- 6-23-  Encroachment easement for the house located at 4103 Ivy Grove Lane which is
75    2003   encroaching into a public storm sewer easement.
2003- 7-28-  Easement acquisition for the storm culvert on James and Michelle Anderson
89    2003   property at 204 Kings Mills Road.
2003- 7-28-  Easement acquisition for the storm culvert on David and Jane Lutes property at
90    2003   208 Kings Mills Road.
2003- 9-8-   Temporary easement plat for 207 Kings Mills Road.
102   2003
2003- 11-10- Easement dedication plat for the Bethany Road sewer extension.
126   2003
2003- 11-24- Acquisition of easement necessary for the construction of Phase I of the U.S.
151   2003   Route 42 north trunk sewer project.
2004- 2-23-  Agreement with Chris Carter for the acquisition of permanent and temporary
22    2004   easements necessary for construction of the influent sewer to the new water
             reclamation plant.
2004- 9-27-  Acquisition of an easement for the waterline of the Jim and Helen Fox property
24    2004   at 136 Kings Mills Road.
2005- 7-23-  Acquisition of an easement for the storm sewer on the James D. and Cheryl A.
65    2005   Wesley property at 110 S. West Street.
2005- 10-24- Authorizes a grant of easement to the Cincinnati Gas and Electric Company to
126   2005   extend a new gas main across property of the city’s new Water Reclamation
             Plant.
2005- 12-12- Authorizes acceptance of the grant of utility and drainage easements for the
167   2005   Lakeview Drive drainage improvement project.
2006- 1-23-  Authorizing the acceptance of temporary construction and permanent sanitary
11    2006   sewer easements for the east trunk sewer improvements project by the City
             Manager, and granting sewer taps as compensation for the easements.
2006- 2-13-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract to purchase with Edward
19    2006   Wayne Greene for the acquisition of property and easements located at 4703
             Socialville-Fosters Road.
2006- 3-13-  Approval of the dedication and easement plat for the Landing of Oakwood Lakes
29    2006   Subdivision.
2006- 5-8-   Approval of the easement plat for Falling Brook Subdivision.
55    2006
2006- 5-8-   Approval of the offsite waterline easement plat for Falling Brook Subdivision.
56    2006
2006- 5-22-  Acceptance of the grant of utility and drainage easements for the Ashley Place/
59    2006   Hosea Woods Park Drainage improvement project.
2006- 7-10-  Approval of the Bethany Road sanitary sewer easement.
78    2006
2006- 11-13- Authorizing an acquisition agreement and to accept an easement for the Muddy
151   2006   Creek restoration and sanitary sewer improvement project (Richardson).
2006- 11-27- Approval of the dedication and easement plat for Cincinnati Chinese Church on
164   2006   Reading Road.
2006- 12-11- Authorizing the Law Director to execute an agreed entry regarding the use of
192   2006   property adjacent to city-owned property in Deerfield Township.
2007- 4-23-  Accepting dedication of right-of-way and sewer easement, and authorizing the
63    2007   execution of a deed for Socialville-Fosters Road.
2007- 8-13-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a consent to use the roadway agreement
114   2007   for a temporary easement across the golf course property owned by the city.
2007- 9-24-  Authorizing acquisition of an easement for the storm sewer on the Roseann and
132   2007   Daniel Costello property at 108 S. East Street.
2007- 9-24-  Authorizing the acceptance of an easement from Fifth Third Bank for the
133   2007   creation of a park area as part of the downtown revitalization project.
2007- 9-24-  Authorizing acceptance of a permanent public recreation easement from Jack
134   2007   Flaherty for the creation of a park area as part of the downtown revitalization
             project.
2007- 11-26- Approval of the waterline easement plat for Reserves of Bethany Subdivision.
163   2007
2007- 11-26- Accepting the dedication of a right-of-way and easement and authorizing the
164   2007   execution of a deed for property for the Western Row Road improvement project
             (Miller, 460 Western Row Road).
2007- 11-26- Accepting the dedication of a right-of-way and easements and authorizing the
165   2007   execution of a deed for property for the Western Row Road improvement project
             (Wheeler, 348 Western Row Road).
2007- 11-26- Accepting standard highway easement and a storm sewer easement for Western Row
166   2007   Road improvement project (Wilson, 370 Western Row Road).
2007- 11-26- Accepting a storm sewer easement for the Western Row Road improvement project
167   2007   (Lexington Park HOA).
2007- 11-26- Accepting dedication of right-of-way and easement and authorizing the execution
168   2007   of a deed for the Western Row Road improvement project (Hope Evangelical Free
             Church, 4934 Western Row Road).
2007- 11-26- Accepting a storm sewer easement for Western Row Road improvement project
169   2007   (Neyer, 4079 Old Western Row Road).
2008- 3-17-  Accepting dedication of right-of-way and easement for the Western Row Road
33    2008   improvement project (Village Lakes).
2008- 3-17-  Accepting dedication of right-of-way and easement for the Western Row Road
34    2008   improvement project (Mason Fields).
             Authorizing the City Manager to grant a utility easement for the transmission
2008- 6-8-   and distribution of electrical energy and for telecommunication purposes to
68    2008   Duke Energy on city property located at the northwest corner of Mason-
             Montgomery Road and U.S. Route 42.
2008- 6-8-   Authorizing the acceptance of an access easement from ANJ Properties for the
69    2008   creation of an access drive as part of the downtown revitalization project.
2008- 7-14-  Accepting standard highway easements for Western Row Road improvement project
79    2008   (Mason Christian Village).
2008- 9-22-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement for the acquisition of
105   2008   sewer and highway easements across certain real property located at 5357
             Bethany Road.
2008- 10-13- Accepting standard sanitary sewer easements for Bethany Road improvement
107   2008   project (Robert Lucke Homes, Inc.).
2008- 10-27- Authorizing the City Manager to execute an acquisition agreement and to accept
114   2008   an easement for a new storm sewer and sanitary sewer improvement project and
             declaring an emergency (Johnston).
2009- 1-12-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement for the acquisition of
06    2009   sewer and highway easements across certain real property located at 5269
             Bethany Road.
2009- 2-23-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an acquisition agreement and to accept
12    2009   an easement for a sanitary sewer improvement project (Green Valley/JRM).
             Authorizing the City Manager to execute an acquisition agreement and to accept
2009- 2-23-  a perpetual public recreational bike path easement and easement/grant of
14    2009   easement for the Muddy Creek Bike Path Phase II/U.S. Route 42 (Green Valley/
             JRM).
2009- 4-13-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a utility easement on certain real
30    2009   property located at 142 Mason-Montgomery Road.
2009- 4-27-  Authorizing the City Manager to grant a ten-foot wide utility easement to Time
37    2009   Warner Entertainment Company, L.P.
2009- 8-17-  Authorizing the acceptance of certain donated easements and the acquisition of
88    2009   other certain easements as part of the Mason Road widening project Phases 1 and
             2.
2009- 10-12- Authorizing the acquisition of easements and accepting the donation of certain
110   2009   other easements as part of the U.S. Route 42 (Reading Road) improvement
             project.
2009- 10-26- Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement for the acquisition of a
114   2009   sanitary sewer easement and highway right-of-way across real property located
             at 5405 Bethany Road.
2009- 10-26- Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement for the acquisition of a
115   2009   sanitary sewer easement and highway right-of-way across real property located
             at 5341 Bethany Road.
2009- 10-26- Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement for the acquisition of a
116   2009   sanitary sewer easement and highway right-of-way across real property located
             at 5315 Bethany Road.
2010- 2-22-  Approval of the waterline easement plat for Mason Community Campus Subdivision.
25    2010
2010- 6-28-  Authorizing the acceptance of certain donated easements and the acquisition of
65    2010   other certain easements as part of the Mason Road Roundabout project.
2010- 6-28-  Authorizing the City Manager to grant a utility easement for the underground
66    2010   transmission and distribution of electrical energy to Duke Energy for the new
             City of Mason Fire Station 51 facility.
2011- 4-11-  Approving the waterline easement plat for The Greenery Subdivision.
38    2011
2011- 7-11-  Approving the off-site sanitary sewer easement plat for Willow Brooke
65    2011   Subdivision.
2012- 1-23-  Approval of the easement acquisition for the storm sewer across Lot 70 ("Common
4     2012   Area" aka Open Space) of Concord Crossing Subdivision, Section "C" for the
             Concord Crossing Homeowners' Association property.
2012- 3-26-  Authorizing acceptance of a conservation easement for the Muddy Creek Stream
20    2012   Restoration Project.
2012- 3-26-  Approval of the easement acquisition for the storm sewer improvements on the
21    2012   Jason Kaufman Property at 205 Burke Drive.
2012- 6-11-  Authorizing the acceptance of certain donated easements and the acquisition of
41    2012   other certain easements as part of the North East Street Storm Sewer
             Improvements.
2012- 8-13-  Authorizing the acceptance of certain donated easements and the acquisition of
55    2012   other certain easements as part of the Mason Heights Area Drainage
             Improvements.
2012- 9-10-  Approval of the easement acceptance for the storm and sanitary sewer across 200
62    2012   Reading Road for the Mason Public Library property.
2012- 9-10-  Authorizing the acquisition of easements and accepting donation of certain
64    2012   other easements as part of the Bethany Road Roundabout Project.
2012- 11-26- Authorizing the City Manager to acquire certain easements across the Stress
77    2012   Engineering property.
2013- 9-9-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a reciprocal easement agreement
76    2013   related to downtown parking.
2013- 12-9-  Authorizing the City Manager to accept easements across the Mason Project I LLC
107   13     property for the Willow Brooke Regional Lift Station Project.
2013- 12-9-  Authorizing the City Manager to accept an easement across the City of Lebanon
108   2013   property for the Willow Brooke Regional Lift Station Project.
2014- 4-14-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a reciprocal easement related to
25    2014   downtown parking.
2014- 5-12-  Authorizing the acquisition of certain easements as part of the Bethany Road
32    2014   Sanitary Sewer Extension and future Bethany Road Roadway Improvements.
2015- 2-9-   Authorizing the acceptance of certain donated easements and the acquisition of
10    2015   easements as part of the Kings Island Drive Roadway Improvements.
2015- 11-23- Authorizing the City Manager to accept the easement for the Beach Waterpark
117   2015   sanitary sewer (National Retail Properties, LP).
2016- 3-14-  Approving the sanitary easement plat for Mitsubishi Electric.
39    2016
2016- 3-14-  Approving the sanitary easement plat for Mason Lakewood Farms.
40    2016
2016- 8-8-   Approving the easement vacation plat for Falling Brook.
92    2016
2016- 10-24- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an easement agreement with Duke
116   2016   Energy Ohio, Inc.
2016- 11-14- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an easement agreement with
117   2016   Cincinnati Bell Telephone Company LLC.
2017- 2-27-  Approval of easement vacation plat for Everybody’s Farm PUD.
24    2017
2017- 9-11-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a grant of easement for Duke Energy
108   2017   Ohio, Inc.
2017- 10-9-  Approval of a private drainage easement vacation plat for the Woods of Rosemont
126   2017   Subdivision.
2017- 10-9-  Approval of a private drainage easement plat for the Woods of Rosemont
127   2017   Subdivision.
2018- 2-12-  Acceptance of certain donated easements and the acquisition of other certain
10    2018   easements as part of the Snider Road Widening Project.
2018- 10-8-  Acceptance of certain donated easements and the acquisition of other certain
119   2018   easements as part of the Snider Road Roundabouts Project.
2019- 6-10-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a partial release of declaration of
71    2019   easement related to Stress Engineering Services, Inc.
2019- 6-10-  Acceptance of certain donated easements and the acquisition of other certain
76    2019   easements as part of the SR 741 and Parkside Intersection Project.
2019- 12-9-  Acceptance of certain donated easements and the acquisition of other certain
147   2019   easements as part of the Butler-Warren Road and Western Row Road Roundabout
             Project.
2021- 5-10-  Authorizing the acceptance of certain donated easements and the acquisition of
65    2021   other certain easements as part of the U.S. 42 Roundabouts Project.
2021- 7-12-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a water line and sanitary sewer
73    2021   easement agreement with CT Devco, Inc. (Crooked Tree Preserve).
2022- 2-14-  Authorizing the acceptance of certain donated easements and the acquisition of
31    2022   other certain easements as part of the SR 741 (Cox-Smith Road to Spyglass Hill)
             Improvement Project.
2022- 5-9-   Authorizing the acceptance of certain donated easements and the acquisition of
68    2022   other certain easements as part of the Mason-Montgomery Road Widening - Concord
             Crossing Drive to Enterprise Drive Project.
2022- 6-13-  Authorizing the acceptance of certain donated easements and the acquisition of
79    2022   other certain easements as part of the Snider Road Widening Phase 2 (Western
             Row Road to US 42) Improvement Project.
2023- 8-14-  Authorizing the donation of certain easements as part of the Warren County
68    2023   Transportation Improvement District Shared Use Path Project.
2023- 12-11- Approving the Greater Cincinnati Water Works (GCWW) easement plat for WRLD
110   2023   Subdivision.
            
 
TABLE C: VACATING OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
      10-14- Portion of Williams Street 16 feet wide abutting Lots 192, 193 and 194
-26   1942   beginning at northwest corner of Lot 192 and ending at southeast corner of
             Lot 194 and south end of Williams Street.
      9-25-  Alley, abutted on the east by Lot 27 and on the west by Lot 26 in Stewart’s
-91   1944   Subdivision and on the south by Lot 227 on revised village plat and on the
             north by Tract 2 owned by William Lucas.
C-63  7-29-  Crain Street from east line of Deerfield Manufacturing Co. property westerly
      1948   2.49 chains to east line of Pennsylvania Railroad right-of-way.
F-73  11-26- Alley running east from Williams Street 200 feet to Pennsylvania Railroad and
      1962   between Lots 185, 188 and 189 of Houseworth’s Addition.
26-   7-22-  Two unnamed alleys in the P. Wycoff Subdivision, one running northerly from
1968  1968   Fifth Avenue and one running northwesterly from Reading Road.
21-   4-10-  Unnamed street between south line of Lots 14 and 22 and north line of Lots 15
1972  1972   and 23 in P. W. Wycoff’s Addition.
4-    2-11-  South West Street from Reading Road to southerly boundary of property owned
1974  1974   by the First Mason Bank.
115-  9-25-  Alley between Lots 25 and 26 in P. W. Wykoff’s Subdivision and an alley
1978  1978   between Lots 15 and 23 and 25.
73-   9-22-  Cambridge Drive at the cul-de-sac.
1980  1980
92-   12-13- An alley between Third and Fourth Streets.
1982  1982
87-54 5-18-  North end of North East Street being 0.110 acres between North Street and
      1987   Indiana and Ohio Railroad right-of-way.
87-   9-28-  Portion of Mason Hills Court right-of-way.
112   1987
89-99 8-29-  50 foot strip running 274.3 feet on South West Street adjacent to St. Susanna
      1989   Church.
89-   11-27- Louis Lane from Western Row Road to its terminus.
152   1989
93-   9-27-  16.5 foot wide alley adjacent to St. Susanna Church property from Fifth to
103   1993   Fourth Streets.
93-   10-25- Undedicated portion of First Street beneath the Mason Public Library and
120   1993   bounded on the north by Lot 60 and on the south by Lot 71.
98-61 4-27-  Vacates 16.5 feet wide alley near Church of God property, between Williams
      1998   Street, and unnamed alley south of Western Avenue.
2002- 10-28- Vacation plat for Lots 143 and 144 in the Heritage Club Subdivision.
138   2002
2002- 11-25- Authorizing vacation of right-of-way on property located at 5501 Cox-Smith
152   2002   Road.
2002- 11-25- Vacation for parcel 16-36-430-003 also known as 414 South West Street.
153   2002
2003- 6-23-  Vacating approximately .0616 acres of South West Street and .0311 acres of an
71    2003   alley which is 16.5 feet wide and runs from Fifth Avenue north approximately
             82.2 feet adjacent to the St. Susanna Church.
2004- 11-8-  Vacating approximately .0699 acres of an alley south of Fifth Street between
131   2004   Lots 291/292 and 304.
2006- 7-24-  Approval of the water main vacation plat for Falling Brook Subdivision.
83    2006
2008- 4-21-  Vacating approximately .0091 acres of South West Street and .0003 acres of
49    2008   the alley adjacent to the St. Susanna Church.
2008- 5-12-  Vacating a 16.5 foot alley located on 316 S. West Street to Noble and Marilyn
55    2008   Johnston.
2012- 5-14-  Vacating approximately 0.090 acres of Innovation Way to Intelligrated
37    2012   Headquarters LLC.
2016- 5-16-  Vacating plat for a portion of Alliance Drive.
70    2016
2016- 9-12-  Approving the Second Street vacation plat.
104   2016
            
 
TABLE D: DEDICATION AND PLAT APPROVAL
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date       Description
No.   Passed
Res.  6-23-1952  Plat of First Addition to Mason Meadows Subdivision.
D-32
Res.  9-27-1954  Authorizes acceptance of rights-of-way and easements for sewers in Second
D-59             Addition to Mason Meadows Subdivision.
Res.  10-27-1958 Plat of Fourth Addition to Manhasset Village Subdivision.
E-46
Res.  10-27-1958 Plat of Sixth Addition to Mason Heights Subdivision.
E-47
E-90  12-28-1959 Plat of Block A - Olympia Fields Subdivision and dedication of streets and alleys
                 shown thereon.
E-91  12-28-1959 Plat of Block B - Olympia Fields Subdivision and dedication of streets and alleys
                 shown thereon.
Res.  10-24-1960 Plats of Blocks C and D of Olympia Fields Subdivision.
F-15
F-48  3-5-1962   Plat of Block E - Olympia Fields Subdivision and dedication of streets and alleys
                 shown thereon.
G-30  3-25-1963  Plat of Western Row Subdivision.
7-    2-26-1968  Approves plan of subdivision of the Minnie Marie Libecap parcel of 0.692 acres.
1968
8-    3-11-1968  Approves plan of subdivision of the E. and E. Miller parcel of 20 acres.
1968
14-   5-13-1968  Approves plan of subdivision of the Fred Emily tract on east side of U.S. Route
1968             42.
37-   5-12-1969  Approves record plat of Oak Hill Subdivision, Section One, by Landtec
1969             Construction Co.
12-   3-22-1971  Accepts dedication of Castle Drive.
1971
13A-  3-8-1971   Approves plan of Broadview Farms Subdivision, Sections 1 and 2 on Chateaugay
1971             Drive and Cox - Smith Road, and grants a variance thereon.
3-    2-28-1972  Approves plan of Olympia Fields Subdivision, Blocks F and G, Parts 1 and 2.
1972
7-    2-28-1972  Approves plan of Winding Creek Estates Subdivision.
1972
11-   3-13-1972  Approves plat of dedication of Parkside Drive for record purposes only.
1972
37-   9-25-1972  Approves plan of Broadview Farms Subdivision, Section 3 and grants variance in
1972             lot size on Hanover Drive, Parkside Drive, Derby Court and Cox-Smith Road.
58-   12-11-1972 Approves plan of Pine Hill Estates Subdivision, Section 1 and grants variance in
1972             lot size on Lakeview Drive, Ontario Court and Champlain Court.
6A-   1-22-1973  Approves plan of subdivision of Mason Hills, Section One.
1973
24-   2-26-1973  Approves plat of subdivision of Winding Creek Estates, Section Two.
1973
58-   6-25-1973  Approves plat of subdivision of First Section of Burr Hill Estates.
1973
60-   7-16-1973  Approves plat of subdivision of Fifth Edition of Manhasset Village Subdivision,
1973             Section One.
72-   8-13-1973  Approves plat of Bay Meadows Subdivision, Section One.
1973
74-   9-10-1973  Approves plat of Bay Meadows Subdivision, Section One; amends Ord. 72-1973.
1973
85-   11-12-1973 Approves plat of subdivision of Olympia Fields, Block G, Part 3 and Block H.
1973
22A-  5-29-1974  Approves plan of subdivision of Bay Meadows, Section Two.
1974
56-   11-25-1974 Approves plat of Bay Meadows Subdivision, Section Three.
1974
20-   6-23-1975  Accepts dedication of right-of-way as shown on plat of Broadview Farms
1975             Subdivision, Section 4.
44-   6-30-1975  Approves plat of Broadview Farms Subdivision, Section 4.
1975
47-   7-14-1975  Accepts dedication of certain lands shown on plat of Broadview Farms Subdivision
1975             as designed by Paul E. Hasselbring.
71-   1-26-1976  Accepts dedication of streets and public improvements as shown on plats of Mason
1975             Heights Subdivision, Seventh Edition.
72-   1-26-1976  Accepts dedication of streets and public improvements as shown on plats of Oak
1975             Hill Subdivision, Section 2.
73-   1-26-1976  Accepts dedication of streets and public improvements as shown on plats of Oak
1975             Hill Subdivision, Section 3.
74-   9-8-1976   Accepts dedication of Fairway Drive and perpetual easement as shown on plat of
1975             Fairway Drive.
75-   9-8-1975   Accepts dedication of streets and public improvements as shown on plat of Block
1975             A, The Greenery.
86-   10-13-1975 Approves plat of Burr Hill Estates, Section 2.
1975
8-    1-26-1976  Accepts dedication of public improvements as shown on plats of Block B, The
1976             Greenery.
14-   2-9-1976   Accepts dedication of public improvements as shown on plats of Block C, The
1976             Greenery.
74-   8-9-1976   Plat of Van Leunen’s Inc. on U.S. Route 42 north of Western Row Road.
1976
82-   9-13-1976  Plats of Block D Revised, The Greenery.
1976
95-   11-22-1976 Final plat for dedication of The Greenery Phase II.
1976
39-   5-23-1977  Plat of Baymeadows Subdivision, Section IV.
1977
58-   8-8-1977   Plat of King-Mason Plaza, Section 1.
1977
70-   9-26-1977  Final plat of Block F of The Greenery.
1977
76-   10-24-1977 Final plat of Block G of The Greenery.
1977
82-   10-24-1977 Plat of Osberger dedication.
1977
83-   11-28-1977 Plat of Burr Hills Estates Section III.
1977
2-    1-9-1978   Plat of Winding Creek Estates Section III.
1978
15-   3-27-1978  With Mason Amateur Athletic Assn. for refreshment stand in Heritage Oak Park.
1978
54-   5-8-1978   Plat of Quailwood Farms Subdivision Block A.
1978
55-   5-8-1978   Final plat of Lot H of The Greenery.
1978
56-   5-8-1978   Dedication of 0.287 acres adjacent to Reading Road by Wehrmeyer.
1978
60-   6-12-1978  Plat of Mason Industrial Park.
1978
64-   6-12-1978  Dedication of road right-of-way at Bethany Road and U.S. Route 42 by Tri-State
1978             Improvement Co.
73-   7-10-1978  Dedication of road right-of-way on plat of Gameela David dedication.
1978
79-   7-24-1978  Dedication of 0.991 acres for part of Castle Drive.
1978
80-   7-24-1978  Plat of Block J of The Greenery.
1978
97-   8-14-1978  Dedication of road right-of-way on plat of Hilda Mein King property.
1978
130-  10-23-1978 Plat of Putters Point Phase I.
1978
131-  10-23-1978 Plat of Fairway Drive.
1978
139-  11-27-1978 Dedication of right-of-way on plat of the Profit Sharing Trust for the employees
1978             of George Henkel Associates, Inc.
154-  11-13-1978 Plat of Quailwood Farms Subdivision Block B.
1978
6-    1-28-1980  Plat of Provident Bank dedicating 0.046 acres adjacent to U.S. Route 42 for
1980             roadway purposes.
12-   2-11-1980  Plat of Western Estates Section 1.
1980
13-   2-11-1980  Castle Drive Second Addition for public purposes.
1980
49-   5-12-1980  Plat of Finsbury Pointe Subdivision Section 1.
1980
55-   7-14-1980  Plat of Winding Creek Subdivision Section 4.
1980
60-   6-14-1980  Plat of subdivision of Olympia Fields Block I.
1980
71-   9-22-1980  Plat of subdivision of Olympia Fields Block I Section 2.
1980
101-  12-80-1980 Plat of Taylor Creek Subdivision Section 1.
1980
102-  12-8-1980  Plat of Western Estates Subdivision Section 2.
1980
31-   4-13-1981  Approval of replatting of Winding Creek Estates, Section 2, Lots 32 and 33 which
1981             are combined and recorded as Lot 136.
35-   4-27-1981  Plat of Mason Hills Subdivision Section 2.
1981
55-   6-8-1981   Plat of Putters Point Phase 2-B, Block A.
1981
19-   3-8-1982   Plat of J. & E. Convalescent Rest Home, Inc. dedicating 0.862 acres adjacent to
1982             Cox-Smith Road at Chateaugay Drive.
31-   4-12-1982  Plat of J. & E. Convalescent Rest Home, Inc. dedication 0.281 acres adjacent to
1982             Cox-Smith Road at Chateaugay Drive.
86-   11-8-1982  Plat of Mason Church of Christ, dedicating 0.309 acres adjacent to Western Row
1982             Road at Brookcrest Drive.
4-    1-24-1983  Accepts public improvements of Burr Hills Estates Section III.
1983
9-    2-14-1983  Accepts dedication plat of 0.733 acres of Fireside Drive extending south from
1983             Tylersville Road for roadway purposes.
68-   7-18-1983  Accepts final plat of Finsbury Pointe Subdivision Section 2.
1983
69-   7-25-1983  Accepts final plat of Walnut Farms Landominium, Block A.
1983
77-   8-8-1983   Plat of Olympia Fields Subdivision, Block 1, Section 2.
1983
101-  10-10-1983 Plat of Putter’s Pointe Phase IIB, Block B.
1983
107-  10-24-1983 Plat of Country Ridge Phase I, Part I.
1983
114-  12-1-1983  Plat of Finsbury Pointe, Section III
1983
115-  12-12-1983 Plat of Walnut Farms, Block B.
1983
116-  12-12-1983 Plat of Eagle View Subdivision Phase I (Homearama 1984).
1983
2-    1-9-1984   Plat of Country Ridge Phase I, Part II.
1984
11-   2-13-1984  Plat of Walnut Farms Landominiums, Block B.
1984
13-   2-13-1984  Accepts dedication plat of 0.4155 acres of Western Row Road in Charter Oak
1984             Subdivision for roadway purposes.
18-   2-13-1984  Plat of Finsbury Point Subdivision, Section IV.
1984
77-   8-27-1984  Public improvements of Western Estates Section I and II.
1984
78-   9-15-1984  Plat of Country Ridge Phase I, Part III.
1984
84-   8-27-1984  Re-plat of Lots 1 and 2 as plat of Mason Industrial Park.
1984
99-   10-22-1984 Final plat of Country Ridge Phase I, Part IV.
1984
21-   4-8-1985   Final plat of Putter’s Point Phase II-B, Block C.
1985
45-   7-8-1985   Final plat of Villas of Winding Creek, Section I.
1985
54-   8-12-1985  Public improvements for Eagle View Subdivision, Phase One.
1985
72-   9-23-1985  Accepts dedication of Beach Boulevard and Water Park Drive in Beach Subdivision.
1985
101-  12-23-1985 Plat of the Villas of Winding Creek.
1985
86-38 4-14-1986  Final plat of Country Ridge Phase I, Part 5.
86-48 4-28-1986  Accepts dedication of 0.7957 acres of Forrest Avenue.
86-65 6-23-1986  Final plat of Country Ridge Phase I, Part 7.
86-68 7-28-1986  Final plat of Bellefleur Subdivision, Section One.
86-89 9-8-1986   Replat of Crooked Tree Subdivision Block A, Part I.
87-8  1-12-1987  Final plat of Bethany Trails Subdivision.
87-9  1-12-1987  Final plat of Country Ridge Phase I, Part 6.
87-28 4-13-1987  Final plat of Timber Brook Estates, Section One.
87-68 7-27-1987  Final plat of Timber Brook Estates, Section 1.
87-79 8-10-1987  Preliminary plat of Timber Brook Estates, Section 2.
87-   10-26-1987 Preliminary plat of Tri-Way Industrial Park.
126
87-   11-23-1987 Final plat of Country Ridge Phase I, Part 8.
143
87-   12-14-1987 Final plat of Country Ridge Phase I, Part 9.
148
88-10 1-25-1988  Final plat of Timber Brook Estates, Section 2.
88-36 3-28-1988  Final plat of Trailside Acres, Section I.
88-40 4-11-1988  Replat of Western Estates Subdivision.
88-41 4-11-1988  Approval of preliminary plat of Trailside Acres, Phase II.
88-44 4-25-1988  Preliminary plat of Quailwood Farms, Block C.
88-51 5-9-1988   Final plat of Kings Mills Center.
88-70 6-27-1988  Final plat of Country Ridge Condominiums Phase I, Part 8.
88-   8-8-1988   Final plat of Crooked Tree, Section 2.
101
88-   8-8-1988   Final plat of Quailwood Subdivision, Block C.
102
88-   8-8-1988   Final plat of Country Ridge Condominiums, Phase I, Section 9.
103
88-   11-14-1988 Approves final plat of Timber Brook Estates, Section 3.
136
88-   11-14-1988 Approves replat of Trailside Acres, Section 1, Lots 27 through 33.
144
88-   11-14-1988 Approves final plat of Trailside Acres, Section 2, Lots 38 through 52.
145
89-10 1-23-1989  Approves final plat of Woodcreek, Part B.
89-48 4-10-1989  Approving preliminary plat of Kings Mill Center Phase III.
89-52 4-24-1989  Approval of final plat of Kings Mill Center, Lot 8.
89-64 5-8-1989   Approval of revised final plat of Crooked Tree, Section 2.
89-36 3-13-1989  Final plat of Country Ridge, Phase 2.
89-65 8-28-1989  Final plat of Tri-Way Industrial Park.
89-92 7-24-1989  Final plat of Snider Cove Condominiums.
89-83 7-24-1989  Preliminary plat of Lakeside Subdivision.
89-   8-28-1989  Final Development Plan of Concord Crossing, Section A.
113
89-   9-11-1989  Final plat of Lakeside Subdivision.
119
89-   9-11-1989  Preliminary plat of Shady Creek Subdivision.
120
89-   9-11-1989  Preliminary plat of Castle Park Subdivision.
121
89-   11-27-1989 Replat of Tower View Subdivision, Lots 1 to 17.
153
89-   11-27-1989 Preliminary plat of Greystone Farms Subdivision.
154
89-   12-11-1989 Final plat of Concord Crossing.
159
89-   12-11-1989 Preliminary plat of Woodcreek Subdivision, Phase II.
160
89-   12-11-1989 Final plat of Tri-Way Industrial Park.
161
90-11 2-12-1990  Dedication of Olympia Fields Subdivision, Block I, Trustway Court.
90-29 3-12-1990  Preliminary plat of Enterprise Park.
90-30 3-12-1990  Preliminary plat of Durfield Estates.
90-38 3-26-1990  Final development plan of Bay Pointe Condominiums.
90-39 4-9-1990   Preliminary plat of Bay Pointe Condominiums.
90-45 4-9-1990   Dedication of parcel 65 feet wide and 1,833 feet long on north side of Kings
                 Mills Road east of Parkside Drive.
90-67 5-14-1990  Dedication of parcel of land on east side of Mason- Montgomery Road being 0.5052
                 acres.
90-72 6-25-1990  Final development plan of Kings Point Phase I.
90-77 7-9-1990   Replot of Trailside Acres Subdivision, Section 2, Lots 46 and 47.
90-82 8-13-1990  Final plat of Concord Crossing, Section B.
90-86 8-27-1990  Final plat of Winding Creek Estates, Section V.
90-   9-24-1990  Replat of Kings Mills Road Subdivision, Phase III, Part 2.
107
90-   10-8-1990  Final plat of Castle Park.
124
90-   10-8-1990  Final plat of Lakeside Subdivision, Section 2.
125
90-   10-8-1990  Replat of Trailside Acres, Section 1, Lots 27 through 33.
126
90-   11-12-1990 Dedication of 3.746 acre right-of-way on SE corner of Mason-Montgomery Road and
135              Bethany Road.
90-   11-12-1990 Final plat of Bay Pointe PUD, Sections I and II.
137
90-   11-12-1990 Dedication of Quailwood Subdivision Block C.
138
91-4  1-14-1991  Dedication of Lakeside Subdivision, Phase I.
91-5  1-14-1991  Final plat of Trailside Acres, Section III.
91-7  1-14-1991  Dedication of right-of-way on south side of Western Row Road and west side of
                 Snider Road.
91-10 1-28-1991  Dedication of Concord Crossings Subdivision, Section A.
91-14 2-11-1991  Dedication of right-of-way on east side of Kings Mills Road.
91-15 2-11-1991  Final plat and dedication of Cintas Commerce Park.
91-16 2-25-1991  Revised preliminary plat of Durfield Estates Subdivision.
91-38 4-8-1991   Final plat of Bay Pointe PUD, Section IV.
91-51 5-13-1991  Dedication of Trailside Acres Subdivision, Sections I and II.
91-52 5-13-1991  Preliminary plat of Laural Court Subdivision.
91-65 6-10-1991  Preliminary plat of Lexington Park Subdivision.
91-78 8-12-1991  Final plat of Lakeside Subdivision, Section 3.
91-91 9-9-1991   Final plat of Fireside Place.
91-   11-25-1991 Final plat of Durfield Estates.
113
91-   11-25-1991 Final plat of Shadycreek Subdivision.
114
91-   11-25-1991 Preliminary plat of Birchwood Farms Subdivision.
116
91-   12-9-1991  Final plat of Bay Pointe PUD, Section V.
127
91-   12-9-1991  Preliminary plat of Glenmeadows Subdivisions.
128
92-4  1-13-1992  Dedication of Trailside Acres Subdivision, Section III.
92-14 2-10-1992  Replat of Lots 12, 13 and 14 of Castle Park Industrial Subdivision.
92-22 3-23-1992  Revised preliminary plat of Greystone Farms Subdivision.
92-23 3-9-1992   Final plat of Bay Pointe PUD, Section VI.
92-30 4-27-1992  Dedication of right-of-way on east side of Reading Road.
92-45 6-8-1992   Final subdivision plat of Lexington Park, Section 1.
92-46 5-11-1992  Final subdivision plat of Winding Creek Estates, Section 6.
92-47 5-11-1992  Final subdivision plat of Laurel Court.
92-58 6-22-1992  Final subdivision plat of Tyler Station, Section 1.
92-59 6-8-1992   Final plat of Bay Pointe PUD, Section VII.
92-64 7-13-1992  Final subdivision plat of Concord Crossing, Section “C.”
92-65 7-13-1992  Final subdivision plat of Lakeside Subdivision, Section 4.
92-66 7-13-1992  Dedication of right-of-way on west side of Mason- Montgomery Road, south side of
                 Enterprise Drive and east side of Venture Drive.
92-67 7-13-1992  Dedication of right-of-way east of Mason- Montgomery Road and south of Stitt
                 Road.
92-75 8-10-1992  Final subdivision plat of Lexington Park, Section 2.
92-76 8-10-1992  Preliminary plat of Winding Creek Subdivision, Section VII.
92-77 8-10-1992  Replat of Lot 4 of Kings Mills Road Subdivision.
92-91 9-14-1992  Final subdivision plat of Birchwood Farms, Section 1.
92-92 9-14-1992  Final subdivision plat of Birchwood Farms, Section 2.
92-99 9-14-1992  Dedication of Lakeside Subdivision Phases II and III.
92-   10-12-1992 Preliminary plat of Heathwood Subdivision.
101
92-   10-12-1992 Final development plan for Village Lakes Subdivision, Phase I.
115
92-   10-12-1992 Dedication of right-of-way on east side of Mason- Montgomery Road.
117
92-   12-14-1992 Final subdivision plat of Glenmeadow.
116
92-   10-12-1992 Dedication of right-of-way on south side of Western Row Road.
118
92-   11-23-1992 Final plat of Tyler Station, Section 2.
129
92-   12-14-1992 Final plat of Concord Crossing, Section “D.”
130
92-   12-28-1992 Dedication of right-of-way on south side of Mason Road.
136
92-   12-28-1992 Final subdivision plat of Birchwood Farms, Section 3.
137
92-   12-28-1992 Final subdivision plat of Birchwood Farms, Section 4.
138
92-   12-14-1992 Final plat of Bay Pointe PUD, Section VIII.
140
93-13 2-8-1993   Preliminary plat of Crooked Tree Estates, Part III.
93-35 4-12-1993  Final plat of Kings Mill Road Subdivision, Phase IV.
93-46 5-10-1993  Preliminary plat of Pipestem.
93-47 5-10-1993  Preliminary plat of North Ridge Estates.
93-49 5-10-1993  Final plat of Bay Pointe PUD, Section IX.
93-63 6-14-1993  Final plat of Brookstone Subdivision, Section 1.
93-64 6-14-1993  Final development plan for Village Lakes Subdivision, Phase II.
93-74 7-12-1993  Final plat of Bay Pointe PUD, Section X.
93-75 8-23-1993  Final subdivision plat of Lexington Park, Section 3.
93-76 8-28-1993  Final subdivision plat of Birchwood Farms, Section 5.
93-85 8-23-1993  Final subdivision plat of Village Lakes, Section 1.
93-92 9-13-1993  Final subdivision plat of Winding Creek, Section 7.
93-93 9-27-1993  Final subdivision plat of Crooked Tree Estates, Part Three.
93-   10-11-1993 Accepting dedication of right-of-way on northeast corner of Mason-Montgomery Road
104              and Stitt Road containing about 0.1817 acres.
93-   10-11-1993 Accepting dedication of right-of-way on east side of U.S. Route 42 and west side
105              of Snider Road containing about 1.1163 acres.
93-   10-11-1993 Accepting dedication of Lakeside Subdivision, Phase IV.
108
93-   1-10-1994  Final subdivision plat of Village Lakes, Section Two.
113
93-   10-11-1993 Preliminary plat of Trailside Acres, Phase 4.
114
93-   11-22-1993 Final subdivision plat of Birchwood Farms, Section 6.
127
93-   11-22-1993 Replat of Lot 9 of Castle Park Industrial Subdivision.
128
93-   11-22-1993 Accepting right-of-way on west side of U.S. Route 42 containing about 0.307
129              acres.
93-   11-22-1993 Preliminary plat of Crooked Tree Estates, Part 4.
130
93-   11-22-1993 Final plat of Concord Crossing, Section “E.”
131
93-   11-22-1993 Final plat of Franklin Park, Resubdivision of Lot 112, Concord Crossing
132              Subdivision, Section “D.”
93-   11-22-1993 Final subdivision plat of Lexington Park, Section 4.
138
93-   11-22-1993 Preliminary plat of Mason Commerce Park.
139
93-   1-10-1994  Preliminary plat of Kings Mill Center.
147
93-   12-13-1993 Preliminary plat of Trailside Acres, Phase 5.
148
93-   12-20-1993 Accepting dedication of right-of-way of Beach Boulevard extension containing
149              about 0.4821 acres.
94-2  1-10-1994  Dedication of Tyler Station Sections One and Two.
94-3  1-10-1994  Replat of Lot 7 of Castle Park Industrial Subdivision.
94-4  1-10-1994  Final plat of Franklin Park, Resubdivision of Lot 106, Concord Crossing
                 Subdivision, Section “D.”
94-15 2-14-1994  Dedication of right-of-way on west side of Mason- Montgomery Road and north side
                 of Western Row Road.
94-20 2-14-1994  Final plat of Franklin Park, Resubdivision of Lot 111, Concord Crossing
                 Subdivision, Section D.
                 Approves preliminary development plan (PUD) of Jewish Home of Cincinnati for
94-14 5-9-1994   32.557 acres on west side of Mason-Montgomery Road about 1,100 feet north of
                 Socialville-Foster Road.
94-45 4-25-1994  Approves replat of Lot 67 of Crooked Tree Estates, Part Three.
94-46 4-25-1994  Approves final development plan for Phase III of Village Lakes Subdivision.
94-47 4-25-1994  Approves preliminary plat of Leland Subdivision.
94-51 4-25-1994  Approves final plat of Franklin Park resubdivision of Lot 110, Concord Crossing
                 Subdivision, Section D.
94-53 5-9-1994   Approves preliminary plat of Lee Ann Estates Subdivision.
94-54 5-9-1994   Approves final subdivision plat of Trailside Acres, Phase 5.
94-55 5-9-1994   Approves final plat of Snider Cove Development, Phase III.
94-59 5-22-1994  Approves final plat of Franklin Park resubdivision of Lots 107 to 109, Concord
                 Crossing Subdivision, Section D.
94-67 6-13-1994  Approves final subdivision plat of Coddington Reserve, Phase I.
94-68 6-13-1994  Approves final subdivision plat of Coddington Reserve, Phase II.
94-78 8-22-1994  Approves final subdivision plat of Lexington Park, Phase 5.
94-79 7-25-1994  Approves final subdivision plat of Trailside Acres, Phase 4.
94-80 7-28-1994  Approves final replat of Coddington Reserve, Phase I and II, Lots 97 through 105.
94-85 8-8-1994   Approves final subdivision plat of Village Lakes, Section III, Blocks “A” and
                 “B.”
94-91 8-22-1994  Aproves final subdivision plat of Birchwood Farms, Section 7.
94-97 9-12-1994  Dedication of right-of-way on west side of Mason- Montgomery Road, 0.5208 acres.
94-98 9-12-1994  Approves final subdivision plat of Village Lakes, Section III, Block “C.”
94-   10-10-1994 Approves final subdivision plat of Lee Ann Estates.
107
94-   10-10-1994 Dedication of Lexington Park Subdivision Sections 1 and 2.
108
94-   10-24-1994 Dedication of right-of-way on west side of U.S. Route 42, 0.058 acres.
111
94-   11-14-1994 Approves final subdivision plat of Crooked Tree Estates, Part Four, Block “A.”
115
94-   11-14-1994 Approves replat of Lot 87 of Village Lakes Subdivision, Section III, Block “A.”
116
94-   11-14-1994 Dedication of Durfield Estates Subdivision.
117
94-   12-12-1994 Dedication of Kings Mill Road Subdivision, Phases I and III.
129
94-   12-12-1994 Approves preliminary plat of Birchwood South Subdivision.
130
94-   12-12-1994 Approves final development for Cedar Village.
131
94-   12-12-1994 Approves final plat of Brookstone Subdivision, Section Two.
138
95-1  1-9-1995   Approves final subdivision plat of Birchwood Farms, Section 8.
95-2  1-9-1995   Approves final plat of Pipestem Subdivision.
95-3  1-9-1995   Dedication of Birchwood Farms Subdivision, Sections 1 and 3.
95-8  2-13-1995  Approves final plat of Mason Commerce Park Subdivision.
95-9  1-23-1995  Approves final plat of Coddington Reserve, Phase III.
95-18 2-13-1995  Approves preliminary plat of the Oaks of Crooked Tree and the Willows of Crooked
                 Tree.
95-19 2-13-1995  Approves replat of Lots 138-143 of Village Lakes Subdivision, Section Three,
                 Block “B.”
95-32 3-13-1995  Approves final plat of Snider Cove Development, Phase IV.
95-36 4-10-1995  Approves preliminary plat of Heritage Club.
95-37 4-10-1995  Dedication of Village Lakes Subdivision, Section One.
95-44 5-8-1995   Dedication of right-of-way on east side of Mason- Montgomery Road, 0.9397 acres.
95-45 5-8-1995   Approves final development plan for Village Lakes Subdivision, Phase IV.
95-46 5-8-1995   Dedication of Shady Creek Subdivision.
95-48 6-12-1995  Approves preliminary development plan (PUD) of 19.365 acres on west side of
                 Mason-Montgomery Road, 1,100 feet south of Bethany Road.
95-50 7-10-1995  Approves preliminary development plan (PUD) of 187.40 acres on north side of
                 Stitt Road, 2,680 feet east of Mason-Montgomery Road.
95-54 6-12-1995  Approves final development plan of Village Lakes Subdivision, Phase IV.
95-56 6-12-1995  Approves final subdivision plat of Eagle View Village, Section I, Phase 1 through
                 16.
95-75 8-14-1995  Final plat of White Blossom, Section 1.
95-76 8-14-1995  Accepts dedication of 0.652 acres of right-of-way on east side of U.S. Route 42.
95-77 8-14-1995  Final plat of Western Row Plaza.
95-96 9-11-1995  Final planned unit development plan for Meadows at Ashley Place.
95-97 9-11-1995  Final planned unit development plan for Ashley Commons.
95-98 9-11-1995  Preliminary plat of Ashley Place.
95-   9-25-1995  Final plat of Lexington Park, Phase 6.
103
95-   10-23-1995 Final plat of Village Lakes, Section IV.
111
95-   10-23-1995 Final plat of Village Lakes, Section V.
112
95-   10-9-1995  Dedication of Lexington Park Subdivision.
113
95-   10-9-1995  Final plat of Mallards of Mason, Lot No. 55.
114
95-   10-9-1995  Replat of Eagle View Village, Phase I, Section 1.
115
95-   10-9-1995  Preliminary plat of Cooper Ridge Subdivision.
118
95-   10-23-1995 Final plat of Heritage Club, Section 1.
120
95-   11-13-1995 Replat of Eagle View Village, Phases 2 thru 6 and Phase 16, Section 1.
129
95-   11-13-1995 Dedication of Castle Park Subdivision.
130
95-   11-27-1995 Dedication of 0.353 acre right-of-way on north side of U.S. Route 42.
137
95-   11-27-1995 Replat of Lots 11 and 12 of Kings Mill Road Subdivision.
138
95-   11-27-1995 Preliminary plat of Crooked Tree Estates, Part 5.
139
95-   11-27-1995 Final plat of Birchwood Farms, Section 9.
140
95-   12-11-1995 Final planned unit development plat for Fairways of Pine Run.
145
95-   12-11-1995 Final plat of Oaks of Crooked Tree, Section 1.
146
95-   12-11-1995 Preliminary plat of Mallards of Mason Subdivision.
147
96-2  1-8-1996   Final subdivision plat of White Blossom, Section 2.
96-3  1-8-1996   Final subdivision plat of Birchwood Farms, Section 10.
96-4  1-8-1996   Final subdivision plat of Birchwood South, Section 1.
96-5  1-8-1996   Final plat of Coddington Reserve, Phase IV.
96-6  1-8-1996   Dedication of Trailside Acres, Sections 4 and 5.
96-7  1-8-1996   Dedication of Winding Creek Subdivisions, Sections 5, 6, and 7.
96-13 1-22-1996  Dedication of Birchwood Farms Subdivision, Sections 2, 4, 5 and 6.
96-14 1-22-1996  Dedication of Lexington Park Subdivision, Section 4.
96-15 1-22-1996  Dedication of Village Lakes Subdivision, Section 2.
96-16 1-22-1996  Dedication of Brookstone Subdivision, Section 1.
96-17 1-22-1996  Dedication of Crooked Tree Subdivision, Section 3.
96-18 1-22-1996  Dedication of Concord Crossing Subdivision, Sections C and D.
96-19 1-22-1996  Dedication of Beach Boulevard extension.
96-20 1-22-1996  Dedication of Glenmeadows Subdivision.
96-22 2-12-1996  Preliminary plat of Wellmax.
96-23 2-12-1996  Final subdivision plat of Wellmax.
96-24 2-12-1996  Replat of Eagle View Village, Phases 7, 8 and 9, Section 1.
96-25 2-12-1996  Final subdivision plat of Eagle View Village, Section 2, Phases 17 thru 35.
96-50 4-8-1996   Final subdivision plat of Heritage Club, Section 2, Lot 104.
96-57 4-22-1996  Final subdivision plat of White Blossom, Section III.
96-62 5-13-1996  Dedication of Mason Commerce Park.
96-69 5-28-1996  Final plat of Concord Crossing, Section “F.”
96-71 6-10-1996  Final planned unit development plan for Tyler Station Office Park.
96-78 6-10-1996  Final planned unit development plan for Village Lakes Subdivision, Section 6.
96-94 7-8-1996   Final planned unit development plan for Hickory Woods Subdivision, Section 1.
96-95 7-22-1996  Final plat of Crooked Tree Estates Subdivision, Part 4, Block B.
96-96 7-8-1996   Final plat of White Blossom Center Commercial Subdivision.
96-97 7-8-1996   Final subdivision plat of White Blossom Section IV.
96-98 7-8-1996   Final plat of Eagle View Subdivision, Section 3, Phases 36 thru 47.
96-99 7-8-1996   Final plat of Eagle View Subdivision, Section 4, Phases 48 thru 51.
96-   7-22-1996  Final plat of Hickory Woods Subdivision, Section 1.
104
96-   7-22-1996  Final subdivision plat of Heritage Club Subdivision, Section 3.
105
96-   7-22-1996  Final subdivision plat of Heritage Club Subdivision, Section 4.
106
96-   7-22-1996  Final subdivision plat of Lexington Park, Phase 7.
107
96-   8-12-1996  Replat of Lots 6 and 7, Hi-tek Court, Triway Industrial Park.
110
96-   8-12-1996  Final subdivision plat of Village Lakes Subdivision, Section 5, Block “B” PUD.
111
96-   8-12-1996  Final subdivision plat of Village Lakes Subdivision, Section 5, Block “C” PUD.
112
96-   8-12-1996  Replat of Lot 29 of Oaks of Crooked Tree, Section One.
113
96-   8-12-1996  Final subdivision plat of Fairway at Pine Run Subdivision, Section 1.
114
96-   8-12-1996  Final subdivision plat of Tyler Office Park.
115
96-   9-9-1996   Revised preliminary development plan (PUD) for Franklin Park Subdivision, Lot
116              115.
96-   8-26-1996  Final subdivision plat of Meadows at Ashley Place.
121
96-   8-26-1996  Final subdivision plat of Meadows at Ashley Place, Section 1.
122
96-   9-23-1996  Final plat of Oaks of Crooked Tree Subdivision, Section 2.
126
96-   9-9-1996   Dedication of 1.1488 acres on north side of Socialville-Fosters Road.
127
96-   9-9-1996   Replat of Eagle View Village, Section 1, Phases 10, 14, 15.
128
96-   10-14-1996 Final subdivision plat of Birchwood South, Section 2.
141
96-   10-14-1996 Final plat of Oaks of Crooked Tree Subdivision, Section Three “A.”
142
96-   10-14-1996 Final subdivision plat of Village Lakes Subdivision, Section Six.
143
96-   10-14-1996 Final subdivision plat of Fairways at Pine Run Subdivision, Section 2.
144
96-   10-14-1996 Preliminary plat of Villas at Pine Run Subdivision.
145
96-   10-28-1996 Final subdivision plat of Ashley Commons.
147
96-   11-25-1996 Final plat of White Blossom Subdivision, Section V.
157
96-   11-11-1996 Preliminary plat of Fairways of Crooked Tree, Part 2.
158
96-   11-11-1996 Final plat of Eagleview Village Subdivision, Section V.
159
96-   11-11-1996 Replat of Eagle View Village, Section One, Phases 11 and 13.
160
96-   11-11-1996 Replat of Eagle View Village, Section Two, Phase 18.
161
96-   12-9-1996  Preliminary development plan (PUD) of 11.4 acres located on east side of Mason-
162              Montgomery Road about 2300 feet south of Western-Row Road.
96-   3-10-1997  Preliminary development plan of 175.5 acres located on north side of Tylersville
164              Road about 3,200 feet west of U.S. Route 42.
96-   12-9-1996  Final plat of The Fairways of Crooked Tree Subdivision, Section 1, Block A.
175
96-   12-9-1996  Replat of Eagle View Village, Section 2, Phase 30.
176
96-   12-9-1996  Replat of Eagle View Village, Section 3, Phase 36.
177
97-1  1-13-1997  Final planned unit development plan for Evergreen Manor Development, Section 1.
97-2  1-13-1997  Revision to the preliminary development plan for White Blossom Subdivision,
                 Section VI.
97-3  1-13-1997  Final subdivision plat of Snider Cove Subdivision.
97-20 2-10-1997  Dedication of right-of-way on north side of Stitt Road containing about 1.337
                 acres.
97-21 2-10-1997  Replat of Lots 21, 23, 24 and 25 of Castle Park Subdivision.
97-22 3-10-1997  Preliminary development plan (PUD) of 146 acres located on south side of Bethany
                 Road about 2700 feet west of Mason-Montgomery Road.
97-37 3-10-1997  Final planned unit development plan for Franklin Park, Phase II.
97-38 3-10-1997  Preliminary plat for dedication of relocation of Irwin-Simpson Road on south part
                 of Proctor and Gamble Health Care Research property, containing 3.94 acres.
97-42 4-28-1997  Final subdivision plat of Ashley Place, Section II.
97-47 4-14-1997  Final subdivision plat of The Manor House.
97-48 4-14-1997  Final planned unit development plan for Parkside Subdivision.
97-49 4-14-1997  Final planned unit development plan for Greenbrier, Phase I.
97-50 5-12-1997  Approval of final subdivision plat of Franklin Park, Phase II.
97-51 4-14-1997  Replat of Eagle View Village, Section 4, Phases 48 through 51.
97-64 4-28-1997  Accepts dedication of Lexington Park Subdivision, Section 5.
97-67 5-12-1997  Approval of final subdivision plat of White Blossom, Section VI.
97-72 5-12-1997  Approves replat of Eagle View Village, Section Three, Phase 37.
97-76 5-27-1997  Accepts dedication of Birchwood Farms Subdivision, Section 7.
97-77 5-27-1997  Accepts dedication of Birchwood Farms Subdivision, Section 8.
97-80 6-23-1997  Approves preliminary plat of Greenbrier Subdivision.
97-81 6-23-1997  Approves replat of Eagle View Village, Section Three, Phase 38.
97-89 7-28-1997  Approves final subdivision plat of Villas of Pine Run.
97-98 8-11-1997  Approves preliminary plat of Mason Pointe Subdivision.
97-   10-13-1997 Accepts dedication of right-of-way for realignment of Irwin-Simpson Road between
103              Duke Drive and Mason-Montgomery Road (3.4 acres).
97-   9-8-1997   Accepts dedication of right-of-way on north side of Western Row Road between
107              Snider Road and Indiana & Ohio Railroad right-of-way.
97-   9-22-1997  Approves replat of Eagle View Village, Section One, Phase 12; Section Four, Phase
114              51; and Section Two, Phase 31.
97-   9-22-1997  Approves final subdivision plat of Birchwood South, Section Three.
120
97-   10-13-1997 Approves final plat of Heritage Club Subdivision, Section Five.
122
97-   10-13-1997 Approves final plat of Oaks of Crooked Tree Subdivision, Section 4.
123
97-   10-13-1997 Approves final plat of Fairways of Crooked Tree Subdivision, Part One, Block B.
124
97-   10-13-1997 Approves final subdivision plat of Fairway at Pine Run Subdivision, Section 3.
125
97-   10-13-1997 Approves final subdivision plat of Ashley Place, Section III.
126
97-   1-13-1997  Approves replat of Eagle View Village, Section Three, Phase 39.
127
97-   10-27-1997 Approves final subdivision plat of Greenbrier, Phase I.
131
97-   11-10-1997 Approves replats of Eagle View Village, Section Two, Phase 29 and Section Five,
138              Phase 52.
97-   11-24-1997 Approval of final subdivision plat of Greenbrier, Phase I-A.
140
97-   12-8-1997  Approves final plat of Parkside Subdivision, Phase One.
147
97-   12-8-1997  Approves final plat of Sunset Ridge Subdivision, Section One.
149
97-   12-8-1997  Accepts dedication of Birchwood Farms Subdivision Section 9, and public
150              improvements.
97-   12-8-1997  Accepts dedication of Lexington Park Subdivision, Section 6 and public
151              improvements.
98-7  1-12-1998  Approves replat of Eagle View Village, Section Five, Phase 53.
98-18 2-9-1998   Accepts dedication of right-of-way for Snider Road on E side of Sunset Ridge
                 Subdivision (1.986 acres).
98-24 2-23-1998  Approves final plat of Oakwood Lakes, Section 1-A.
98-47 4-13-1998  Accepting dedication of 60-feet right-of-way for Cedar Village Drive (1.02
                 acres).
98-49 4-13-1998  Approves revision to preliminary subdivision plat for Oaks of Crooked Tree
                 Subdivision.
98-50 4-13-1998  Approves replat of Village Lakes Subdivision, Section Five, Lots 261A and 262A.
98-51 4-13-1998  Approves replat of Eagle View Village, Section Four, Phases 48-50.
98-53 4-13-1998  Approves replat of Castle Park Industrial Subdivision.
98-71 6-8-1998   Approves preliminary plat of 42 North Commerce Parke Subdivision.
98-72 6-8-1998   Approves final plat of Heritage Club Subdivision, Section Six.
98-73 6-8-1998   Approves final plat of Heritage Club Subdivision, Section Seven.
98-74 6-8-1998   Accepts dedication of Concord Crossing Subdivision, Section E and improvements.
98-80 6-22-1998  Approves final plat of Oaks of Crooked Tree Subdivision, Section 5A.
98-83 7-13-1998  Approves final plat of Heritage Club Subdivision, Section Eight.
98-84 7-13-1998  Approves final plat of Oakwood Lakes Subdivision, Section 1, Part B.
98-85 7-13-1998  Approves final plat of Parkside Subdivision, Section 1, Part B.
98-88 7-13-1998  Approves replat of Eagle View Village, Section Two, Phases 17-35.
98-   8-24-1998  Approves replat of Eagle View Village, Phases 19 and 20, Section Two, Phases 17-
115              35.
98-   8-24-1998  Approves replat of Eagle View Village, Section Four, Phases 48-51; Section Five,
116              Phases 52-59.
98-   8-24-1998  Approves replat of Eagle View Village, Section Three, Phases 36-47.
117
98-   9-14-1998  Approves final plat of Greenbrier, Phase 1F.
122
98-   9-14-1998  Accepts dedication of right-of-way for Innovation Way Extension (1.539 acres).
123
98-   10-12-1998 Approves replat of Heritage Club Subdivision, Sections Two and Three, Lots 211-
141              216.
98-   10-12-1998 Approves replat of Parkside Subdivision, Section One, Lots 167-170.
144
98-   10-12-1998 Approves final plat of Fairways at Pine Run, Section 4.
145
98-   10-12-1998 Approves replat of Eagle View Village, Section Three, Phase 47, Lots 149-152.
146
98-   10-26-1998 Accepts dedication of Crooked Tree Subdivision, Part II and public improvements.
153
98-   10-26-1998 Approves final plat of Birchwood South Subdivision, Section 4.
154
98-   10-26-1998 Approval of final plat of Fairways of Crooked Tree, Part 2, Block A.
155
98-   11-9-1998  Approves replat of Kings Mills Road Subdivision, Lot 3.
161
98-   11-9-1998  Accepts dedication of right-of-way on north side of Cedar Village Drive (.41
162              acres).
98-   11-9-1998  Approves replat of Parkside Subdivision, Section One, Lot 217.
163
98-   11-23-1998 Approves final plat of Windemere Subdivision, Phase I.
171
98-   11-23-1998 Approves final plat of Greenbrier Subdivision, Section 1B.
172
98-   11-23-1998 Approves final plat of Greenbrier Subdivision, Section 1C.
173
98-   11-23-1998 Approves final plat of Parkside Subdivision, Section 2, Blocks A and B.
174
98-   12-14-1998 Accepts dedication of right-of-way on northeast corner of Reading Road, and
188              Western Row Road.
98-   12-14-1998 Approves replat of Eagle View Village, Section Three, Phase 42, Lots 153-156.
189
99-2  1-11-1999  Accepts dedication of Concord Crossing Subdivision, Section F and public
                 improvements.
99-11 3-22-1999  Approves final plat of 42 North Commerce Parke.
99-21 2-8-1999   Approving the preliminary plat of Lakewood Commerce Center Subdivision.
99-22 2-8-1999   Accepting dedication of a right-of-way on the west side of Mason-Montgomery Road,
                 south of Brewer, containing approximately .254 acre.
99-23 2-8-1999   Approving the preliminary plat of Weatherstone Residential Subdivision.
99-37 2-22-1999  Accepting dedication of Crooked Tree Estates, Part 4, Block “A” and the public
                 improvements contained therein.
99-38 2-22-1999  Accepting dedication of Enterprise Drive and Ventura Drive and the public
                 improvements contained therein.
99-45 3-8-1999   Approves preliminary plat of Kingsmill Business Park.
99-46 3-8-1999   Approves preliminary plat of Heritage Club Subdivision, Section 10.
99-54 3-22-1999  Approves final subdivision plat of Eagle View Village, Section II, Lots 157-160,
                 Phases 17-35.
99-56 4-12-1999  Approves replat of Oakwood Lakes Subdivision, Section One, Block B, Lot 14.
99-68 5-10-1999  Approves the replat of Parkside Subdivision, Section 1A, Lots 227 and 228.
99-69 5-10-1999  Approves the replat of Eagle View Village, Phase 46, Lots 161-164.
99-72 5-24-1999  Approves the final plat of Central Parke of Mason.
99-73 5-24-1999  Accepts dedication of Coddington Reserve Subdivision, Sections 1, 2 and 3.
99-74 5-24-1999  Accepts dedication of Coddington Reserve Subdivision, Section 4.
99-75 5-24-1999  Approves the replat of Eagle View Village, Phase 34, Lots 165-168.
99-79 6-14-1999  Approves the final plat of Medical Professional Center of White Blossom.
99-81 6-14-1999  Approves the replat of Eagle View Village, Section Five, Phase 54, Lots 169-172.
99-96 7-12-1999  Approves the final plat of Hickory Woods Subdivision, Section Two.
99-97 7-12-1999  Approves the replat of Oakwood Lakes Subdivision, Lot 14, Section One, Block B.
99-98 7-12-1999  Approves the final plat of Sunset Ridge Subdivision, Section Two.
99-99 7-12-1999  Approves the final plat of Arborcreek Subdivision, Section One.
99-   7-26-1999  Approves the preliminary plat of Everybody’s Farm, Snider Road Extension.
100
99-   7-12-1999  Approves the replat of Village Lakes Subdivision, Lot 258, Section Five, Block C.
101
99-   7-26-1999  Approves the final plat of the Oaks of Crooked Tree Subdivision, Section Five,
102              Block B.
99-   7-26-1999  Accepts the public improvements for Western Row Plaza.
103
99-   8-9-1999   Approves the replat of Eagle View Village, Section Three, Phase 41, Lots 173-176.
108
99-   8-9-1999   Approves the replat of Eagle View Village, Section Five, Phase 56, Lots 177-180.
109
99-   8-9-1999   Accepts the public improvements for Ashley Place, Sections One, Two and Three.
110
99-   8-9-1999   Accepts the public improvements for the Meadows of Ashley Place.
111
99-   8-9-1999   Accepts the public improvements for Fairways of Crooked Tree, Part One, Blocks
112              “A” and “B.”
99-   8-9-1999   Accepts the public improvements for Crooked Tree Estates, Part 4, Block “B.”
113
99-   8-9-1999   Approves the replat of Parkside Subdivision, Section 1, Lots 121A-123-A.
114
99-   9-13-1999  Approves the final plat of the Greenbrier Subdivision, Phase 1D.
119
99-   9-13-1999  Approves the final plat of the Fairways of Crooked Tree Subdivision, Part Two,
125              Block “B.”
99-   9-13-1999  Approves the final plat of Heritage Club Subdivision, Section Ten.
126
99-   9-13-1999  Approves the preliminary plat of Mason Church of Christ, Central Parke Boulevard
127              Extension.
99-   9-27-1999  Accepts the public improvements for Cedar Village Drive, west of Mason-Montgomery
128              Road.
99-   9-13-1999  Accepts the public improvements for Manor House Subdivision.
129
99-   9-13-1999  Accepts the public improvements for Leeann Estates Subdivision.
130
99-   9-27-1999  Approves the final plat of Birchwood South, Section 5.
143
99-   9-27-1999  Approves the final plat of Parkside Subdivision, Section 3, Block “A.”
144
99-   9-27-1999  Approves the final plat of Parkside Subdivision, Section 3, Block “C.”
145
99-   9-27-1999  Accepts the public improvements for Pipestem Subdivision.
146
99-   9-27-1999  Approves the replat of Eagle View Village, Section 23, Phases 17-35, Lots 181
147              through 184.
99-   10-11-1999 Approves the final plat of Whispering Springs Subdivision, Section One.
149
99-   10-11-1999 Accepts the public improvements for Village Lakes Subdivision, Sections 3A, 3B,
150              3C, 4, 5, 5C and 6A.
99-   10-11-1999 Dedication of a right-of-way on the north side of the intersection of Mason-
151              Montgomery Road, south of the Indiana and Ohio Railroad.
99-   10-11-1999 Dedication of a right-of-way on the northwest corner of the property owned by
152              Kingsway Community Church on the south side of Cox- Smith Road.
99-   10-11-1999 Approves the replat of Eagle View Village, Section Five, Phase 58.
153
99-   10-25-1999 Accepts the public improvements for Brookstone Subdivision, Section 2.
172
99-   10-25-1999 Approves the final plat of Crooked Tree Subdivision, Part Two, Block “D.”
173
99-   11-8-1999  Approves the replat of Eagle View Village, Section Five, Phase 55, Lots 189-192.
183
99-   12-13-1999 Approves the replat of the Fairways of Crooked Tree, Part Two, Block “B,” Lot 99.
202
99-   12-13-1999 Accepts the public improvements for the Oaks of Crooked Tree, Sections 1 and 2.
203
99-   12-13-1999 Accepts the public improvements for 42 North Commerce Parke.
204
99-   12-13-1999 Approves the final plat of Thorngate at Windemere, Phases 1 and 4.
205
2000- 1-10-2000  Approves the replat of Central Parke of Mason, Lots 5, 6 and 7.
3
2000- 1-10-2000  Approves the final plat of Windemere, Phase 1A.
4
2000- 1-10-2000  Approves the replat of Whispering Springs Subdivision, Lot 32.
6
2000- 1-24-2000  Approves the final plat of Weatherstone Subdivision, Section One.
13
2000- 3-13-2000  Approves the final plat of Snider Cove, Phase Six.
26
2000- 3-27-2000  Accepts the public improvements for Birchwood Farms, Section 10.
35
2000- 4-10-2000  Approves the preliminary plat of Avalon Farms Subdivision.
41
2000- 4-24-2000  Approves the final plat of Windemere Subdivision, Phase II.
47
2000- 4-24-2000  Approves the replat of Eagle View Village, Section Two, Phase 23, Lots 193
48               through 196.
2000- 4-24-2000  Approves the replat of Eagle View Village, Section Two, Phase 57, Lots 197-200.
49
2000- 5-8-2000   Approves the final plat of Birchwood South, Section 6.
57
2000-            Dedication of right-of-way from the current terminus of Central Park Boulevard
63    5-22-2000  south to Cedar Village Drive and the right-of-way on the west side of Mason-
                 Montgomery Road directly north of Cedar Village.
2000- 6-12-2000  Approves the replat of Eagle View Village, Section Three, Phase 45, Lots 201-204.
65
2000- 6-12-2000  Approves the replat of Cintas Commerce Park Subdivision, Lot 2 and part of Lot 1.
72
2000- 6-12-2000  Approves the preliminary plat of the Mason Enterprise Park.
73
2000- 6-12-2000  Approves the replat of Thorngate at Windemere Subdivision, Lot 22.
74
2000- 6-12-2000  Approves the final plat of Weatherstone Subdivision, Section 2.
75
2000- 6-12-2000  Accepts the public improvements for White Blossom Subdivision, Sections 1, 2, 3,
77               4, 5 and 6.
2000- 6-26-2000  Approves the final plat of Windemere Subdivision, Phase 3.
85
2000- 6-26-2000  Approves the revised preliminary plat of Avalon Farms Subdivision.
86
2000- 7-24-2000  Approves the final plat of Village Lakes Subdivision, Section 6, Block “B.”
95
2000- 7-24-2000  Approves the final plat of Oakes of Crooked Tree Subdivision, Section 6, Block
96               “A.”
2000- 7-24-2000  Approves the replat of Eagle View Village, Section Two, Phase 26, Lots 205
97               through 208.
2000- 8-14-2000  Approves the replat of Eagle View Village, Section Two, Phase 24, Lots 209
110              through 212.
2000- 8-28-2000  Approves the plat of easement for Pebble Creek of Mason, Phase I.
120
2000- 8-28-2000  Approves the final plat of Fairways of Crooked Tree Subdivision, Part 2, Block
121              “E.”
2000- 9-10-2000  Approves the final plat of Mason Fields Subdivision.
127
2000- 10-9-2000  Approves the final plat of Oakwood Lakes Subdivision, Section 2.
147
2000- 10-9-2000  Approves the final plat of Weatherstone Subdivision, Section 3, Block A.
148
2000- 10-9-2000  Accepts the public improvements for Sunset Ridge, Section 1.
149
2000- 10-9-2000  Approves the replat of Eagle View Village, Section Two, Phase 33, Lots 213
151              through 216.
2000- 10-23-2000 Approves the final plat of the Greenbrier Subdivision, Phase 1E.
159
2000- 10-23-2000 Approves the replat of Weatherstone Subdivision, Section One, Lots 18 and 20.
160
2000- 11-13-2000 Accepts the public improvements for Lexington Park, Section 7.
168
2000- 12-11-2000 Approves the dedication plat of Greenbrier Subdivision, Phase II, Section 1,
177              Block “C.”
2000- 11-27-2000 Approves the preliminary plat of Avalon Farms Subdivision.
178
2000- 11-27-2000 Approves the replat of Eagle View Village, Section Two, Phase 32, Lots 217
179              through 220.
2000- 12-11-2000 Approves the final plat of Arbor Creek Subdivision, Section 2.
189
2000- 12-11-2000 Approves the final plat of Christ’s Church at Mason, Section 1.
190
2000- 12-11-2000 Approves the replat of Tri-Way Industrial Park, Lot 2.
191
2000- 12-11-2000 Approves the replat of Thorngate at Windemere Subdivision, Lot 15.
192
2000- 12-11-2000 Accepts the public improvements for Fairways of Crooked Tree, Part 2, Block “A.”
193
2000- 12-11-2000 Accepts the public improvements for the Oaks of Crooked Tree, Section 3, Block
194              “A.”
2000- 12-11-2000 Accepts the public improvements for Tyler Office Park.
195
2000- 12-11-2000 Accepts the public improvements for Village Lakes, Section 5, Block “B.”
196
2001- 1-8-2001   Accepts dedication of right-of-way on the west side of State Route 741,
01               containing a total of 1.263 acres.
2001- 1-8-2001   Approves the replat of Thorngate at Windemere Subdivision, Lot B and Lot 24.
02
2001- 2-12-2001  Accepts the public improvements for Franklin Park Subdivision, Phase 2.
27
2001- 2-12-2001  Approves the replat of Oakwood Lakes Subdivision, Section 2, Lots 19 through 24.
28
2001- 3-12-2001  Approves the dedication plat of Snider Road, north of U.S. Route 42.
40
2001- 3-26-2001  Approves the replat of Eagle View Village, Section 2, Phase 25, Lots 221 through
47               224.
2001- 3-26-2001  Approves the replat of Eagle View Village, Section 3, Phase 43, Lots 225 through
48               228.
2001- 4-9-2001   Accepts public improvements for Heritage Club Subdivision, Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
52               and 8.
2001- 4-9-2001   Approves the final plat of High Tech Center of White Blossom.
53
2001- 4-9-2001   Approves the replat of Eagle View Village, Section 2, Phase 27, Lots 229 through
54               232.
2001- 4-23-2001  Accepts public improvements for Ashley Commons Subdivision.
73
2001- 4-23-2001  Approves preliminary plat of 31.775 acres and access road directly across from
74               Cintas Boulevard on the south side of Western Row Road.
2001- 6-25-2001  Approves the replat of Eagle View Village, Section 3, Phase 44, Lots 233 through
96               236.
2001- 6-25-2001  Approves the replat of Thorngate at Windemere Subdivision, Lots 16 through 20.
97
2001- 6-25-2001  Approves the replat of Parkside Subdivision, Lots 3 and 4.
98
2001- 6-25-2001  Approves the replat of Parkside Subdivision, Lots 179 and 168.
99
2001- 6-25-2001  Approves the replat of Kings Mills Road Subdivision, Lot 9.
100
2001- 6-25-2001  Accepts public improvements for Central Parke of Mason Subdivision.
101
2001- 6-25-2001  Approves the dedication plat of Mason- Montgomery Road north of Tylersville Road.
102
2001- 8-13-2001  Approves the replat of Thorngate at Windemere, Lots 14 and 21 to Lots 14A through
146              14D and Lots 21A through 21D.
2001- 8-27-2001  Approves final plat of the Oaks of Crooked Tree Subdivision, Section 6, Block B.
157
2001- 8-27-2001  Approves the final plat of Parkside Subdivision, Section 2, Block C.
158
2001- 8-27-2001  Approves the final plat of Parkside Subdivision, Section 3, Block B.
159
2001- 8-27-2001  Accepts the public improvements for Heritage Club Subdivision, Section 7.
160
2001- 8-27-2001  Approves the dedication plat of U.S. Route 42, west of State Route 741.
167
2001- 9-10-2001  Approves the final plat of Arbor Creek Subdivision, Section 3.
168
2001- 10-8-2001  Approves the replat of Oakwood Lakes Subdivision, Section 2, Lots 38 through 42.
177
2001- 11-26-2001 Accepts the public improvements for Birchwood South Subdivision, Section 1.
196
2001- 11-26-2001 Accepts the public improvements for Oaks of Crooked Tree Subdivision, Section 4.
197
2001- 11-26-2001 Accepts the public improvements for Fairways of Crooked Tree Subdivision, Part 2,
198              Blocks B, C and D.
2001- 11-26-2001 Accepts the public improvements for Hickory Woods Subdivision, Section 1.
199
2001- 12-10-2001 Approves the final plat of Weatherstone Subdivision, Section 4, Phase A.
217              (Repealed by 2002-08.)
2002- 1-14-2002  Approves the replat of Arbor Creek, Sections 1, 2 and 3, Lots 64-87, 104, 146,
03               and 149 through 152.
2002- 1-14-2002  Approves the final plat of Whispering Springs Subdivision, Section 2, Phase A.
04
2002- 1-14-2002  Repeals Ord. 2001-217.
08
2002- 1-28-2002  Accepts dedication of right-of-way on the west side of U.S. Route 42, containing
20               a total of 0.11 acres.
2002- 1-28-2002  Accepts dedication of right-of-way on the east side of U.S. Route 42, containing
21               a total of 0.617 acres.
2002- 2-11-2002  Approves the final plat of Weatherstone Subdivision, Section 3, Block B.
37
2002- 2-25-2002  Approves the final plat of Weatherstone Subdivision, Section 4, Phase A.
38
2002- 3-11-2002  Accepting dedication of right-of-way on the north side of Tylersville Road
46               containing 0.15 acres.
2002- 3-11-2002  Approves the final plat of Community Campus Subdivision, Section 1.
47
2002- 3-11-2002  Approves the replat of Kings Island Technical Center, Block B, Lots 7 and 8 and
53               accepting dedication of right-of-way on Socialville-Foster Road.
2002- 6-10-2002  Approves preliminary plat of Avalon Farms Subdivision.
88
2002- 6-24-2002  Approves final plat of Arbor Creek Subdivision, Section 4.
101
2002- 7-22-2002  Approves the final plat of Whispering Spring Subdivision, Section 2, Phase B.
108
2002- 8-26-2002  Approves the dedication plat of Stitt Road at Tylersville Road.
117
2002- 10-14-2002 Approves the replat of the West Mason Church of Christ.
132
2002- 10-14-2002 Approves the final plat of Oaks of Crooked Tree, Section 7.
133
2002- 11-11-2002 Accepts the public improvements for Fairways of Crooked Tree Subdivision, Part 2,
142              Block E.
2002- 12-9-2002  Accepts the public improvements for Greenbrier Subdivision, Phase 1, 1A, 1B, 1C,
159              1D, 1E and 1F.
2002- 12-9-2002  Accepts dedication of right-of-way, located on the southern property line of the
160              WLW clear channel site abutting Tylersville Road.
2002- 12-9-2002  Accepts the public improvements for Fairways at Pine Run, Section 1 and 2.
162
2003- 1-13-2003  Approves final plat of Avalon Farms Subdivision.
01
2003- 1-13-2003  Accepts the public improvements for Villas at Pine Run.
02
2003- 1-13-2003  Approves dedication plat for Autozone, Inc.
03
2003- 1-13-2003  Accepts the public improvements for Eagle View Village, Sections 1, 2, 3, 4 and
04               5.
2003- 1-27-2003  Approves final plat of Lenscrafters Subdivision.
09
2003- 1-27-2003  Accepts the public improvements for Greenbrier, Phase 2, Section 1A.
10
2003- 1-27-2003  Approves final plat of Weatherstone, Section 4, Phase B.
12
2003- 2-10-2003  Approves replat of The Fairways of Crooked Tree (Lots 204 and 205).
18
2003- 2-24-2003  Accepts the public improvements for Parkside, Section 1, Blocks A and B.
22
2003- 4-14-2003  Accepts the public improvements for Mason Enterprise Park Phase I.
33
2003- 4-28-2003  Accepts the public improvements for Sunset Ridge Section 2.
46
2003- 4-28-2003  Approves final plat of Columbia Commons Subdivision.
47
2003- 5-12-2003  Approves final plat of Weatherstone, Section 3, Block C.
52
2003- 5-12-2003  Approves replat of Lots 23 and 24B of the Thorngate at Windemere Subdivision.
53
2003- 6-9-2003   Accepts the public improvements for Whispering Springs, Section 1.
62
2003- 6-9-2003   Accepts the public improvements for Greenbrier, Phase 2, Section 1B.
63
2003- 6-9-2003   Approves replat of Lots 11 and 24-A of the Thorngate at Windemere Subdivision.
64
2003- 6-9-2003   Approves replat of the 4309 Mason-Montgomery Road.
65
2003- 6-9-2003   Approves final plat of Renner Farm.
66
2003- 6-23-2003  Approves replat of the St. Susanna Subdivision.
72
2003- 6-23-2003  Approves final plat for Whispering Springs, Section 2, Phase C.
73
2003- 6-23-2003  Approves final plat for Hickory Woods, Section 3, Block A.
74
2003- 6-23-2003  Accepts the public improvements for Lenscrafters Subdivision.
76
2003- 7-14-2003  Approves final plat for the Oaks of Crooked Tree, Section 6, Block C.
83
2003- 8-11-2003  Accepts the public improvements for Laurel Court.
95
2003- 8-11-2003  Accepts the public improvements for Oaks of Crooked Tree, Section 5A.
96
2003- 8-25-2003  Approves dedication and replat for the Nymberg Subdivision.
100
2003- 9-8-2003   Approves replat for Lots 244 and 245 in the Mason Heights Subdivision.
101
2003- 9-8-2003   Approves the dedication plat for Bearcat Development.
103
2003- 9-8-2003   Approves the dedication plat for K.P. Properties.
104
2003- 10-13-2003 Accepts the public improvements for Oaks of Crooked Tree, Section 5B.
113
2003- 10-27-2003 Approves replat of Oakwood Lakes, Section 2 to the Landing at Oakwood Lakes,
121              Section 1.
2003- 10-27-2003 Approves preliminary plat of Carmelle Subdivision.
122
2003- 11-10-2003 Approves replat for Lots 14, 15, 22 and 23 in the Wykoff’s Addition.
125
2003- 11-10-2003 Approves replat for Lots 232, 233 and 234 in the Heritage Club Subdivision,
127              Section 10.
2003- 11-24-2003 Accepts the public improvements for Arbor Creek Section 1.
140
2003- 11-24-2003 Accepts the public improvements for Fairways at Pine Run Sections 3 and 4.
147
2003- 11-24-2003 Accepts the public improvements for Heritage Club Section 10.
148
2003- 12-8-2003  Approves revised preliminary plat of Carmelle Subdivision.
160
2003- 12-8-2003  Accepts the public improvements for Birchwood South, Sections 2, 3, 4 and 5.
165
2004- 1-12-2004  Approves dedication plat for the Deerfield Acquisition Corporation property.
01
2004- 1-12-2004  Approves replat for Lots 2 and 3 of the Central Park of Mason Subdivision.
02
2004- 1-12-2004  Approves replat and dedication plat for 100 West Church Street.
03
2004- 1-12-2004  Accepts the public improvements for Hickory Woods Subdivision, Section 2.
04
2004- 1-12-2004  Approves final plat for Windemere PUD, Phase 4.
05
2004- 1-12-2004  Approves final plat for Windemere PUD, Phase 5.
06
2004- 2-23-2004  Approves dedication and easement plat for Greenbrier Subdivision, Phase 2.
22
2004- 2-23-2004  Approves dedication plat for the Veterans of Foreign Wars property as part of the
23               Indiana & Ohio bridge replacement project on Mason- Montgomery Road.
2004- 3-8-2004   Accepts public improvements for Arbor Creek, Sections 2, 3 and 4 and releasing
27               the performance bond.
2004- 3-22-2004  Approves replat and dedication plat for the offices of White Blossom.
33
2004- 3-22-2004  Approves replat for Lot 1 of the Trailside Acres Subdivision.
40
2004- 4-12-2004  Accepts public improvements for Village Lakes, Section 6, Block “B” and releasing
47               the performance bond.
2004- 5-10-2004  Approves dedication plat for Western Row Road and Snider Road.
63
2004- 5-10-2004  Approves final plat for Tylersville Crossing PUD.
65
2004- 6-14-2004  Approves preliminary plat of the Estates of Western Row Subdivision.
73
2004- 6-14-2004  Approves replat for Lots 111 and 112 in the Windemere Subdivision PUD, Phase 4.
74
2004- 8-9-2004   Accepts public improvements for Thorngate at Windemere, Sections 1 and 4, and
90               releasing the performance bond.
2004- 7-12-2004  Approves the waterline easement plat for Columbia Commons PUD.
91
2004- 8-9-2004   Approves final plat for Rosemont Manor PUD.
103
2004- 9-13-2004  Approves final plat for Weatherstone Subdivision, Section 4C.
116
2004- 9-13-2004  Approves dedication and easement plat for Pebble Creek at Mason, Section 3.
117
2004- 10-11-2004 Approves final plat for Wall-2-Wall PUD.
126
2004- 11-22-2004 Accepts public improvements for Oaks of Crooked Tree, Sections 6A, 6B, 6C and 7,
129              and releasing the performance bond.
2004- 11-8-2004  Approves sanitary sewer easement plat for Fountains Office Park.
130
2004- 12-13-2004 Approves final plat for Carmelle Subdivision, Section 1.
140
2004- 12-13-2004 Approves replat for Lots 6 and 7 of the Cintas Commerce Park.
141
2004- 12-13-2004 Approves dedication and easement plat for Everybody’s Farm.
143
2005- 1-10-2005  Accepts public improvements for Parkside Subdivision, Sections 2A, 2B, 2C, 3A, 3B
01               and 3C and releasing the performance bond.
2005- 2-28-2005  Approves a revised concept planned unit development plan for property located
03               between Tylersville Road, Luxottica Place and Western Row Road.
2005- 2-14-2005  Approves preliminary plat of Promark Enterprise Park.
05
2005- 2-14-2005  Approves dedication and easement plat for The Meadows of Crooked Tree
06               Subdivision.
2005- 2-14-2005  Approves dedication plat for Lots 1 and 2 of the Western Estates Subdivision.
07
2005- 2-14-2005  Accepts public improvements for Windemere Subdivision, Phases 1, 1A and 2 and
08               releasing the performance bond.
2005- 2-28-2005  Accepts public improvements for Greenbrier, Phase II, Sections 1C and 2A, and
15               releasing the performance bond.
2005- 3-14-2005  Approval of the sewer and waterline easement plat for Grizzly Golf Center, Inc.
19
2005- 3-14-2005  Approval of the sewer and waterline easement plat for Tennis for Charity.
20
2005- 4-11-2005  Approving the preliminary plat of the Mitchell Farm Subdivision.
38
2005- 4-11-2005  Approval of the Tri-Way Industrial Park, Lot 7.
39
2005- 4-11-2005  Approval of the final plat for the Cedar Point PUD.
40
2005- 4-25-2005  Approval of the final plat for Hickory Woods Section 3B.
49
2005- 4-25-2005  Approval of the final plat for the Sword Deaf Baptist Church PUD.
50
2005- 5-23-2005  Approval of the replat of Wall 2 Wall PUD, Lots 5, 6 and 7.
59
2005- 5-23-2005  Approval of the final plat for The Landing of Oakwood Lakes, Section 2, Block A.
60
2005- 6-13-2005  Accepts public improvements for Mason Fields.
72
2005- 6-13-2005  Approval of the final plat for Great Wolf PUD.
74
2005- 6-13-2005  Approval of the final plat for Snider Crossing Section 1 PUD.
75
2005- 6-13-2005  Approval of the final plat for Snider Crossing Section 2.
76
2005- 7-25-2005  Approval of the easement plat for The Landing of Oakwood Lakes, Section 2, Phase
88               A and B.
2005- 7-25-2005  Approval of the offsite waterline easement plat for The Landing of Oakwood Lakes.
89
2005- 8-22-2005  Approval of the final plat for Mars Hills Subdivision.
94
2005- 8-22-2005  Approval of the dedication and easement plat for the Snider Road Extension.
96
2005- 8-22-2005  Approval of the replat of Trailside Acres Subdivision, Lot 131.
97
2005- 8-22-2005  Approval of the replat of Trailside Acres Subdivision, Lot 158.
98
2005- 8-22-2005  Accepts public improvements for Whispering Springs PUD, Sections 2A, 2B and 2C
101              and releasing the performance bond.
2005- 9-26-2005  Accepts public improvements for Birchwood South, Section 6 and releasing the
115              performance bond.
2005- 9-26-2005  Approval of the final plat for Greenbrier Commercial PUD.
116
2005- 10-10-2005 Approval of the final plat for The Landing at Oakwood Lakes, Section 2, Block B.
120
2005- 10-24-2005 Approval of the final plat for Everybody’s Farm Subdivision, Section 1.
127
2005- 10-24-2005 Approval of the final plat for Everybody’s Farm Subdivision, Section 2.
128
2005- 10-24-2005 Approval of the preliminary plat of The Estates of Mason Subdivision.
129
2005- 10-24-2005 Approval of the preliminary plat of the Saddleback Estates at Chestnut Hills
130              Subdivision.
2005- 11-14-2005 Approval of the final plat for Mason Point Subdivision.
137
2005- 11-14-2005 Approval of the offsite waterline easement plat for Carmelle Subdivision.
139
2005- 12-12-2005 Approval of the final plat for Carmelle Subdivision, Section 2.
165
2005- 12-12-2005 Approval of the replat of Trailside Acres Subdivision, Lot 39 and adjacent
166              unplotted lot.
2005- 12-12-2005 Approval of the dedication plat for Builders First Source.
169
2006- 1-23-2006  Accepting the public improvements for Greenbrier Phase 2B and releasing the
04               performance bond.
2006- 1-23-2006  Accepting the public improvements for Fountains Office Park and releasing the
05               performance bond.
2006- 1-23-2006  Accepting the public improvements for Tylersville Crossing PUD and releasing the
06               performance bond.
2006- 2-13-2006  Approval of the final plat for Heritage Club, Section 11.
21
2006- 2-23-2006  Approval of the replat of the First Church of God Subdivision.
22
2006- 2-23-2006  Approval of the replat of Greenbrier Commercial PUD.
23
2006- 3-13-2006  Approving the preliminary plat of Rosemont West Subdivision.
28
2006- 3-13-2006  Approval of the dedication and easement plat for the Landing of Oakwood Lakes
29               Subdivision.
2006- 4-10-2006  Approval of the dedication plat for 0.3 acres on Innovation Way.
38
2006- 4-24-2006  Approval of the final plat for Anchor Socialville Subdivision.
50
2006- 5-8-2006   Approval of the easement plat for Falling Brook Subdivision.
55
2006- 5-8-2006   Approval of the offsite waterline easement plat for Falling Brook Subdivision.
56
2006- 6-12-2006  Approval of the final plat for the Landing at Oakwood Lakes Section 2C.
63
2006- 6-26-2006  Approval of the dedication and easement plat for Marshall Brown Boulevard.
74
2006- 7-24-2006  Approval of the Columbia Commons PUD replat.
82
2006- 8-14-2006  Approval of the Mason Commerce Park replat (Prasco).
89
2006- 8-28-2006  Accepting the public improvements for Thorngate at Windemere, Sections 2, 3, and
97               5 and releasing the performance bond.
2006- 9-11-2006  Approving the preliminary late of Snider Station.
102
2006- 9-11-2006  Accepting the public improvements for Pebble Creek, Section 1 and releasing the
103              performance bond.
2006- 9-11-2006  Accepting the public improvements for Greenbrier Phase 2C and releasing the
104              performance bond.
2006- 9-25-2006  Approval of the waterline easement plat for the Mason Early Childhood Center.
113
2006- 10-9-2006  Approval of the final plat for Carmelle Subdivision.
123
2006- 10-9-2006  Approval of the final plat for Falling Brook Section 1.
124
2006- 10-23-2006 Approval of the final plat for Snider Station.
133
2006- 10-23-2006 Approval of the final plat for Health Alliance.
134
2006- 11-13-2006 Approval of the dedication plat for the Mason Animal Hospital.
144
2006- 11-13-2006 Approval of the dedication plat for Crane Properties.
145
2006- 11-13-2006 Approval of the final plat for Batsche Trails Boulevard.
146
2006- 11-13-2006 Approval of the dedication plat for part of the Hermann Property along Mason-
147              Montgomery Road.
2006- 11-13-2006 Approval of the final plat for estates of Chestnut Hill, Section 1.
148
2006- 11-13-2006 Approval of the final plat for estates of Chestnut Hill, Section 2.
149
2006- 11-13-2006 Accepting the public improvements for Pebble Creek at Mason, Section 3 and
150              releasing the performance bond.
2006- 11-27-2006 Approval of the final plat for Rosemont West Subdivision.
163
2006- 11-27-2006 Approval of the dedication and easement plat for Cincinnati Chinese Church on
164              Reading Road.
2006- 12-11-2006 Accepting the public improvements for Hickory Woods, Section 3A and releasing the
175              performance bond.
2006- 12-11-2006 Accepting the public improvements for the landing of Oakwood Lakes, Section 1 and
176              releasing the performance bond.
2006- 12-11-2006 Accepting the public improvements for Weatherstone Subdivision, Sections 1, 2,
177              4A, 4B, and 4C and releasing the performance bond.
2006- 12-11-2006 Accepting the public improvements for Windemere Subdivision Phase 4 and releasing
178              the performance bond.
2007- 1-8-2007   Approval of the dedication plat for Kingsway Community Church.
1
2007- 1-8-2007   Accepting a dedication plat, approving a lot split, and authorizing the execution
2                of a deed for New Pine Hill Water Tower Site.
2007- 1-8-2007   Accepting the public improvements for Carmelle Subdivision, Section 1 and
3                releasing the performance bond.
2007- 3-26-2007  Approving the preliminary plat of Reserves of Bethany Subdivision.
39
2007- 3-26-2007  Approval of the replat of 424 Reading Road.
40
2007- 3-26-2007  Approval of the final plat for Bethany Estates.
41
2007- 3-26-2007  Approval of the dedication plat for 0.270 acres on U.S. Route 42.
42
2007- 4-23-2007  Approval of the dedication plat for Sinclair Community College on Courseview
62               Drive.
2007- 5-21-2007  Approval of the replat of Wall 2 Wall PUD.
68
2007- 5-21-2007  Approval of the final plat for Mason Self Storage.
69
2007- 5-21-2007  Approval of the dedication plat for Lichtenburg landscaping.
70
2007- 5-21-2007  Accepting the public improvements for Rosemont Manor PUD and releasing the
71               performance bond.
2007- 6-18-2007  Approval of the dedication plat for Christ’s Church at Mason.
83
2007- 6-18-2007  Approval of the dedication plat for Lenscrafters Subdivision.
84
2007- 6-18-2007  Approval of the final plat for Promark Enterprise Park.
85
2007- 6-18-2007  Approval of the final plat for Mason Pointe Subdivision.
86
2007- 8-27-2007  Accepting the public improvements for the Heritage Club, Section 11 and releasing
119              the performance bond.
2007- 9-10-2007  Approval of the replat for Snider Crossing, Section 1 PUD.
125
2007- 9-24-2007  Approval of the preliminary plat of Reserves of Pine Hill Subdivision.
131
2007- 10-8-2007  Accepting the public improvements for Great Wolf PUD and releasing the
140              performance bond.
2007- 10-22-2007 Approval of the replat for Lot 1 in Falling Brook Phase A.
144
2008- 3-17-2008  Accepting the public improvements for Stress Engineering Way and releasing the
35               performance bond.
2008- 5-12-2008  Accepting the public improvements for Snider Road Between U.S. Route 42 and
56               releasing the performance bond.
2008- 6-8-2008   Approval of the dedication plat for Christ’s Church at Mason.
67
2008- 7-14-2008  Accepting the dedication of the right-of-way for the Western Row Road improvement
78               project (Western Row Subdivision).
2008- 7-14-2008  Approval of the final plat for Lakewood Commerce Center.
82
2008- 8-11-2008  Approval of the replat for Lots 127, 128, 129, 130, 131, 132, 133 and 134 in
91               Carmelle Subdivision, Section 3.
2008- 8-11-2008  Approval of the replat for Lots 6, 7, 8 and 9 in Mason Commerce Park.
92
2008- 10-13-2008 Accepting the public improvements for Snider Crossing PUD and releasing the
106              performance bond.
2008- 10-27-2008 Approval of the final plat for Reserves of Bethany.
113
2008- 12-15-2008 Approval of the final plat for Estates at Chestnut Hill, Section 3A.
132
2008- 12-15-2008 Accepting the public improvements for Carmelle Subdivision, Section 2 and
133              releasing the performance bond.
2009- 1-12-2009  Approval of the final plat for Carmelle Subdivision, Section 4.
01
2009- 2-9-2009   Accepting the public improvements for Hickory Woods Subdivision, Section 3B and
11               releasing the performance bond.
2009- 4-27-2009  Approval of the final plat for Mason Middle School PUD.
36
2009- 6-8-2009   Approval of a revised concept PUD plan located between State Route 741 and Cox-
44               Smith Road (Glimcher).
2009- 5-18-2009  Accepting the public improvements for Rosemont West Subdivision and releasing the
45               performance bond.
2009- 6-8-2009   Approval of the replat for Lots 1 and 2 in Lakewood Commerce Center.
54
2009- 6-8-2009   Approval of the replat for Lot 6 in Bethany Trails Subdivision.
55
2009- 7-13-2009  Approval of the dedication and easement plat for 4600 Holding LLC.
69
2009- 7-13-2009  Approval of the dedication plat for Mason Middle School PUD.
70
2009- 9-14-2009  Approval of the replat for Lots 47, 48 and 49 in J.M. Stewart Subdivision.
101
2009- 12-15-2009 Approval of the replat of the 3.019 acre lots in the Kings Island Technical
144              Center.
2010- 1-11-2010  Accepting the public improvements for Carmelle Subdivision Section 4 and
2                releasing the performance bond.
2010- 2-22-2010  Approving the preliminary plat of Boxwood Farms Subdivision.
23
2010- 5-24-2010  Approval of the final plat for Agile Pursuits Subdivision.
59
2010- 5-24-2010  Accepting the public improvements for Columbia Commons PUD and releasing the
60               performance bond.
2010- 6-28-2010  Accepting the public improvements for the landing at Oakwood Lakes Section 2A, 2B
61               and 2C and releasing the performance bond.
2010- 9-13-2010  Approval of the final plat for David A Eves Business Park PUD.
103
2010- 11-1-2010  Approval of the replat for reserves of Bethany Subdivision - Section 1A.
111
2011- 1-24-2011  Approval of the replat for Lots 25, 26, 29 and 30 of Carmelle Subdivision Section
1                1.
2011- 4-11-2011  Approval of the dedication plat for 3810 State Route 741 (J.K. Stucco).
39
2011- 8-8-2011   Approval of the replat for Lots 42 and 43 of the Brookstone Subdivision.
71
2011- 8-8-2011   Approval of the final plat for Estates at Chestnut Hills Subdivision Section 3B.
72
2011- 10-10-2011 Approval of the vacation plat for Everybody’s Farm PUD.
90
2011- 10-10-2011 Approval of the final plat for Everybody’s Farm PUD.
91
2011- 11-14-2011 Accepting the public improvements for the western portion of Batsche Trails
100              Boulevard (Estates at Chestnut Hills) and releasing the performance bond.
2011- 11-14-2011 Accepting the public improvements for Greenbrier Commercial PUD and releasing the
101              performance bond.
2012- 2-13-2012  Approval of the replat for Lot 15 in Falling Brook Phase A.
9
2012- 3-12-2012  Approval of the replat for the Mason Manor House PUD.
15
2012- 5-14-2012  Approval of the replat for part Lot 6, Lot 7 and Lot 15 of the Kings Island
38               Technical Center Block "B" (Intelligrated).
2012- 6-11-2012  Approval of the dedication plat for 3850 Bethany Road (First Choice Landscaping).
40
2012- 7-9-2012   Approval of the final plat for The Reserves of Carmelle Subdivision Phase 1.
47
2012- 7-9-2012   Approval of the final plat for Willow Brooke Subdivision - The Meadows Section
48               One.
2012- 8-13-2012  Approval of the final plat for Estates at Chestnut Hills Subdivision Section 4.
53
2012- 8-13-2012  Approval of the dedication plat for 109 and 111 Kings Mills Road (Time Warner
54               Entertainment).
2012- 9-10-2012  Approval of the final plat for Lakewood Commerce Center Section 2.
61
2012- 12-10-2012 Approval of the replat for Lot 8 in Falling Brook Phase A.
85
2013- 1-14-2013  Approval of the record plat for People’s Building Loan Center.
2
2013- 2-11-2013  Approval of the replat of Lots 3 and 4 of Columbia Commons PUD.
20
2013- 4-22-2013  Approval of the final plat for Boxwood Farms Subdivision.
36
2013- 7-8-2013   Approval of the final plat for the Reserves of Carmelle Phase 2.
62
2013- 8-12-2013  Approval of the final plat for Falling Brooke Phase B, Block A.
70
2013- 11-18-2013 Approval of the final plat for the Alverta Subdivision Section 1.
89
2013- 11-18-2013 Approval of the final plat for Willow Brooke, the Meadows Section 2.
90
2013- 11-18-2013 Approval of the dedication plat for 5380 Courseview Drive (Sinclair Community
91               College).
2013- 12-9-2013  Approval of the replat for Lot 7 in Falling Brook Phase A.
101
2013- 12-9-2013  Approval of the final plat for Falling Brook Phase B, Block B.
102
2013- 12-9-2013  Approval of the consolidation/dedication plat for the Mason Public Library
103              Subdivision.
2014- 1-13-2014  Approval of the replat for Lots 85 and 86 of the Lakeside Subdivision.
4
2014-            Approval of a revised concept PUD plan for a portion of the Columbia Commons
17    5-12-2014  Development located on the east side of Columbia Road north of Catalina Isle
                 (Columbia Commons).
2014- 5-12-2014  Approval of the final plat for the Fountains of Mason PUD.
31
2014- 7-14-2014  Approval of the final plat for Woods of Rosemont PUD.
53
2014- 7-14-2014  Approval of the final plat for the Alverta Subdivision Section 2.
54
2014- 7-14-2014  Approval of the replat for Kings Island Technical Center Block “F”.
55
2014- 9-8-2014   Approval of the replat for Lot 13 in Falling Brook Phase A-5.
69
2014- 9-8-2014   Approval of the final plat for Willow Brooke Subdivision – The Estates Section
70               One.
2014- 9-8-2014   Approval of the final plat for Willow Brooke Subdivision – The Ridge Section One.
71
2014- 11-10-2014 Approving the preliminary plat of Carmelle Subdivision Section Five.
100
2014- 11-10-2014 Approval of the final plat for the Reserves of Carmelle Phase 3A.
101
2014- 12-15-2014 Approval of the final plat for the Alverta Subdivision Section 3A.
123
2014- 12-15-2014 Approval of the final plat for the Willow Brooke Subdivision The Meadows Section
124              3.
2014- 12-15-2014 Approval of the dedication plat for Mason-Morrow- Millgrove Road and Cox- Smith
125              Road.
2014- 12-15-2014 Accepting the public improvements for Promark Enterprise Park and releasing the
126              performance bond.
2014- 12-15-2014 Accepting the public improvements for Carmelle Subdivision Section 3 and
127              releasing the performance bond.
2015- 2-9-2015   Accepting the public improvements for Willow Brooke Subdivision The Meadows
9                Section 1 and 2 and releasing the performance bond.
2015- 3-9-2015   Approving the preliminary plat of Crooked Tree Preserve Subdivision.
27
2015- 3-9-2015   Approval of the final plat for the Festo Americas Subdivision.
28
2015- 5-11-2015  Approval of the replat for the Nymberg Subdivision.
48
2015- 5-11-2015  Approval of the replat for Lot 12 in Falling Brook Phase A-6.
49
2015- 5-11-2015  Approval of the final plat for the Reserves of Carmelle Phase 3B.
50
2015- 5-11-2015  Approval of the final plat for the Alverta Subdivision Section 3B.
51
2015- 7-13-2015  Approval of the final plat for Mason Grand PUD.
71
2015- 9-28-2015  Approval of the final plat for Willow Brooke Subdivision The Ridge Section 2.
93
2015- 9-28-2015  Approval of the final plat for Carmelle Subdivision Section 5.
94
2015- 11-23-2015 Approval of the final plat for Crooked Tree Preserve Subdivision Phase 1A.
113
2015- 11-23-2015 Accepting the public improvements for Woods of Rosemont PUD and releasing the
114              performance bond.
2015- 11-23-2015 Accepting the public improvements for the Reserves of Carmelle Phases 1 and 2 and
115              releasing the performance bonds.
2015- 11-23-2015 Accepting the public improvements for Mason Grand and releasing the performance
116              bond.
2016- 1-25-2016  Approving the dedication plat for State Route 741.
8
2016- 2-8-2016   Accepting the public improvements for Reserves of Bethany Subdivision and
12               releasing the performance bond.
2016- 3-14-2016  Approving the replat for Lakewood Commerce Center.
36
2016- 3-14-2016  Approving the dedication plat for Mason Self Storage.
37
2016- 3-14-2016  Approving the replat for Lot 14 in Falling Brook Phase A-7.
38
2016- 4-25-2016  Accepting the public improvements for Alverta - Sections 1 and 2 and releasing
60               the performance bonds.
2016- 5-16-2016  Approving the dedication plat for portion of Alliance Drive.
71
2016- 5-16-2016  Approving the dedication plat for Bunnell Road and U.S. Route 42.
72
2016- 5-16-2016  Approving the dedication plat for U.S. Route 42.
73
2016- 7-11-2016  Approving the replat of Lots 8 & 9 of Crooked Tree Preserve Subdivision Phase 1A.
86
2016- 7-11-2016  Approving the final plat for Crooked Tree Preserve Subdivision Phase 1B.
87
2016- 8-8-2016   Approving the final plat for the Reserves of Carmelle Phase 4A.
93
2016- 8-8-2016   Approving the final plat for Willow Brooke Subdivision - The Estates Section Two.
94
2016- 9-12-2016  Approving the replat of the Beach Subdivision, Phase Two.
103
2016- 9-12-2016  Approving the record plat for Middleton Subdivision.
105
2016- 9-12-2016  Approving the final plats for Ambleside Meadows - Phases 1A, 1B, and 1C.
106
2016- 10-24-2016 Approving the replat for Mason Grand Section 1A.
114
2016- 10-24-2016 Accepting the public improvements for the Estates at Chestnut Hill Subdivision
115              Section 4 and releasing the performance bond.
2016- 12-12-2016 Approving the replat of Lot 13 in Heritage Club, Section 1.
128
2016- 12-12-2016 Approving the replat of Lot 254 and Parcel 16 in Heritage Club, Section 11.
129
2016- 12-12-2016 Approving the replat of Lot 187 in Heritage Club Section 4.
130
2016- 12-12-2016 Approving the final plat for Ambleside Meadows, Phase 1E.
131
2017- 2-27-2017  Approval of the record plat for Everybody’s Farm PUD, Section 4.
25
2017- 3-20-2017  Approving the preliminary plat of the Kings Mill retail site.
32
2017- 3-20-2017  Accepting the public improvements for Mason Grand sanitary sewer extension and
33               releasing the performance bond.
2017- 4-10-2017  Approval of the final plat for Falling Brook, Phase B, Block C.
53
2017- 4-10-2017  Approval of the Cintas Commerce Park, Section 2 replat.
54
2017- 4-10-2017  Approval of the replat of Lot 2A in Christ’s Church at Mason, Section 1.
55
2017- 4-10-2017  Approval of the dedication plat for Mason Montgomery Road (P&G).
56
2017- 5-15-2017  Approval of the replat of Crooked Tree Preserve, Phase 1A, Revision 3.
68
2017- 5-15-2017  Approval of the final plat for Ambleside Meadows, Phase 2.
69
2017- 6-12-2017  Approval of the replat for Lot 6 in Falling Brook, Phase A-8.
78
2017- 6-12-2017  Approval of the replat of Castle Park 2728.
79
2017- 6-12-2017  Approval of the record plat for Malich Acres Subdivision.
80
2017- 6-12-2017  Approval of the final plat for Crooked Tree Preserve Subdivision, Phase 1C.
81
2017- 6-12-2017  Approval of the final plat for Kings Mill Plaza.
82
2017- 7-10-2017  Approval of the final plat for Ambleside Meadows, Phase 1D.
89
2017- 7-10-2017  Approval of the final plat for the Reserves of Carmelle, Phase 4B.
90
2017- 7-10-2017  Approval of the replat of Lots 11, 12, 19 and 20 of the P.W. Wycoff’s Addition
91               Subdivision.
2017- 7-10-2017  Accepting the public improvements for Alverta, Section 3, Blocks A and B and
92               releasing the performance bonds.
2017- 8-14-2017  Approval of McGee’s Courts 4 Sports replat of Lot 5A.
97
2017- 9-11-2017  Approval of the final plat for Ambleside Meadows, Phase 3A.
107
2017- 9-25-2017  Approval of the final plat for Willow Brooke The Estates, Section 3.
118
2017- 9-25-2017  Approval of the final plat for Willow Brook The Estates, Section 4.
119
2017- 10-23-2017 Approval of Cintas Commerce Park, Section 2, Revision 1, record plat.
130
2017- 10-23-2017 Approval of the Beach Subdivision, Phase 2, Revision 1, record plat.
131
2017- 12-11-2017 Approval of the dedication plat and acceptance of public improvements for Mason
160              Pointe.
2017- 12-11-2017 Approval of the final plat for Ambleside Meadows, Phase 4.
161
2017- 12-11-2017 Approval of the final plat for Crooked Tree Preserve Subdivision, Phase 2.
162
2017- 12-11-2017 Accepting the public improvements for the Reserves of Carmelle, Phases 3A and 3B,
163              and releasing the performance bonds.
2018- 1-8-2018   Approval of the final plat for Ambleside Meadows, Phase 5A.
2
2018- 1-8-2018   Approval of the dedication plat for Mason-Montgomery Road (UDF).
3
2018- 1-22-2018  Approval of the Colonial Acres Replat No. 2.
8
2018- 3-12-2018  Approval of the replat for Lot 5 in Falling Brook, Phase A-9.
32
2018- 5-14-2018  Approval of the final plat for Ambleside Meadows, Phase 5B.
63
2018- 6-11-2018  Approval of the final plat for Crooked Tree Preserve Subdivision, Phase 1D.
68
2018- 6-11-2018  Approval of the record plat for Khan Noor Subdivision.
69
2018- 8-20-2018  Approval of the final plat for Ambleside Meadows, Phase 5C.
92
2018- 8-20-2018  Approval of the record plat for Mason Pointe Four Subdivision.
93
2018- 9-10-2018  Approval of the final plat for the Reserves of Carmelle, Phase 4C.
102
2018- 9-10-2018  Approval of the record plat for Festo Americas Subdivision, Phase 2.
103
2018- 10-8-2018  Approval of the final plat for Crooked Tree Preserve Subdivision, Phase 3A.
120
2018- 12-10-2018 Approval of the final plat for Ambleside Meadows, Phase 3B.
139
2019- 2-14-2019  Approval of the replat for Kings Mills Plaza, Section 1A.
2
2019- 1-14-2019  Approval of the Cox-Smith Road dedication plat (S-K Mason Area).
3
2019- 1-28-2019  Approval of the Mason Oaks Townhomes easement plat.
4
2019- 1-28-2019  Approval of the final plat for Crooked Tree Preserve Subdivision, Phase 3B.
5
2019- 2-11-2019  Approval of the dedication plat for 414 Reading Road.
14
2019- 3-25-2019  Approval of the final plat for Everybody’s Farm, Phase 2 PUD, Section 1.
31
2019- 3-25-2019  Approval of the record plat for Bodenbender Subdivision.
32
2019- 5-13-2019  Approval of the replat for Kings Mills Plaza, Section 1B.
57
2019- 6-10-2019  Approval of the final plat for Crooked Tree Preserve, Subdivision Phase 1E.
70
2019- 8-12-2019  Approval of the replat for Lot 4 in Falling Brook, Phase A-10.
87
2019- 8-12-2019  Approval of the final plat for Crooked Tree Preserve, Subdivision Phase 3C.
88
2019- 8-12-2019  Approval of the record plat for Royalmont Subdivision.
89
2019- 8-12-2019  Approval of the dedication plat for Sound Wave Boulevard.
90                
2019- 9-9-2019   Approval of the replat for Kings Island Technical Center, Block C.
99
2019- 9-9-2019   Approval of the dedication plat for Mason- Montgomery Road (3501 Mason-Montgomery
102              Road).
2019- 10-28-2019 Approval of the final plat for Ambleside Meadows, Phase 3C.
119
2019- 12-9-2019  Approval of the final plat for the Reserves of Carmelle, Phase 4D.
146
2020- 3-9-2020   Approval of the Sterling Self-Storage Subdivision plat.
31
2020- 3-9-2020   Approval of the replat for Kings Mills Plaza, Section 1C, Lot 4.
32
2020- 6-8-2020   Approval of the replat for Lot 19 in Falling Brook, Phase A-11.
54
2020- 6-8-2020   Approval of the Dilley Subdivision, Phase 2 replat.
55
2020- 6-8-2020   Approval of the dedication plat for Wahe Properties, LLC.
56
2020- 7-13-2020  Approval of the dedication plat for Hageman Crossing, Phase 1.
61
2020- 8-10-2020  Approval of the replat for Kings Mills Plaza, Section 1D, Lot 1A.
68
2020- 9-28-2020  Approval of the final plat for Tower Park PUD.
86
2020- 10-26-2020 Approval of the final plats for Crooked Tree Preserve, Phases 3D and 3E.
97
2020- 12-14-2020 Approval of the final plats for Ambleside Meadows, Phases 3D and 6.
113
2021- 1-11-2021  Approval of the replat for Kings Mills Plaza, Section 1E, Lots 4A and 4B.
4
2021- 3-8-2021   Approval of the replat of the Beach Subdivision, Phase 3.
40
2021- 5-10-2021  Approval of the replat for Lot 112 in Crooked Tree Preserve Subdivision, Phase
61               3A, Revision #1.
2021- 5-10-2021  Approval of the final plat for Crooked Tree Preserve Subdivision, Phase 3F.
62
2021- 6-14-2021  Approval of the replat of Promark Enterprise Park, Section 2.
66
2021- 8-9-2021   Approval of the replat for Lot 2 in Falling Brook, Phase A-12.
83
2021- 9-27-2021  Approving the preliminary plat of the Estates of Mason Subdivision.
97
2021- 10-11-2021 Approval of the final plat for Lots 204-215 and 221 in the Crooked Tree Preserve
103              Subdivision, Phase 3G.
2021- 10-11-2021 Approval of the replat for Lot 1 in the Tower Park PUD Development.
104
2021- 11-29-2021 Approval of the replat for Lots 22 and 23 in the Elkwood Subdivision.
121
2021- 11-29-2021 Approval of the final plat for Mason Research and Development Park.
122
2022- 1-10-2022  Approval of the replats for WRLD Subdivision Section 1 & 2.
5
2022- 4-11-2022  Approval of the record plat of Degree Properties.
46
2022- 4-11-2022  Approval of the replat of Falling Brook Phase B Block D.
47
2022- 5-9-2022   Approval of the preliminary plat of the Ainsley Subdivision.
65
2022- 5-9-       Approval of the replat for WRLD Subdivision, Section 2.
66    2022   
2022- 5-9-       Approval of the dedication plat for Mesa Properties, LLC (UDF) at Tylersville
67    2022    Road and US 42.
2022- 6-13-2022  Approval of the replat for Lot 1A in the Tower Park PUD Subdivision.
78
2022- 8-8-2022   Approval of the replat for WRLD Subdivision, Section 2.
88
2022- 8-8-2022   Approval of the replat for the Beach Subdivision, Phase 4.
89
2022- 9-20-2022  Approval of the record plat for Young Subdivision.
93
2022- 9-20-2022  Approval of the record plat for TWAS Properties, LLC.
94
2022- 11-14-2022 Approval of the replat for Lot 111 in Heritage Club Section 6.
106
2022- 11-14-2022 Approval of the replat for WRLD Subdivision, Section 3.
107
2022- 12-12-2022 Approval of the Alverta, Section 4, replat.
120
2023- 1-9-2023   Approval of the replat for Lot 3 in Falling Brook Phase A-13.
4
2023- 2-13-2023  Approval of the final plat for Ainsley Subdivision.
12
2023- 3-13-2023  Approval of the final plat for Grismer Subdivision (Reading Rd.).
28
2023- 4-10-2023  Approval of the replat for Castle Park 2728 Revision 1.
45
2023- 4-10-2023  Approval of the record plat for the Ferrell Subdivision.
46
2023- 5-8-2023   Approval of the dedication plat for BSMH Fairfield, LLC (Mercy Hospital) along
49               Kings Island Drive.
2023- 8-14-2023  Approval of the dedication plat for U.S. Route 42 and Mason- Morrow-Millgrove
67               Road (BC Bottle Lodge).
2023- 11-13-2023 Approval of the replat for WRLD Subdivision, Section 4.
90
2023- 11-13-2023 Approval of the replat for Lot 20A in Falling Brook Phase A-14.
91
2023- 11-13-2023 Approval of the final plat for the Estates of Mason Subdivision.
92
2023- 11-13-2023 Approval of the record plat for Grace Baptist Church of Mason Lot 1.
93
2023- 11-13-2023 Approval of the record plat for J.G. Hancock Subdivision.
94
                
 
TABLE E: ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
146   1-31-  Authorizes sale of Lots 96 and 97.
      1911
C-35  9-23-  Authorizes sale of old Municipal Light Plant property.
      1946
C-78  6-10-  Purchase of 3.40 acres, being part of Section 25 in Deerfield Township, from
      1949   Arthur H. and Grace D. Sharon for disposal of garbage and refuse.
Res.  6-23-  Accepts deed to 1.38 acres from Ohio Homes, Inc. for sewage treatment plant in
D-33  1952   Mason Meadows Subdivision, First Addition.
Res.  10-29- Authorizes option to purchase land for a well drilling site on the Landen-Sigg
D-92  1956   property fronting on Hamilton-Mason Road.
             Appropriates two parcels for sewage treatment plant, both being part of
E-71  4-27-  Section 25, Deerfield Township; one parcel of 1.882 acres, part of a 48.30
      1959   acre tract owned by Frank M. Bowyer; one parcel of 8.133 acres, part of a
             10.051 acre tract owned by Don S. and Dale R. Bowyer.
Res.  9-6-   Repeals Ord. E-71.
F-13  1960
H-81  12-23- Authorizes purchase from Muriel Hendricks and part of Lot 26 fronting
      1966   approximately 52 feet on Main Street and 11 feet on East Street.
13-   5-13-  Accepts deed to parcel of 1.24 acres, adjacent to property rezoned by Ord. 13-
1968  1968   1968, from Fred and Nethel Emily for park and recreational purposes.
8-    1-27-  Authorizes option to purchase the Clyde G. Erbeck property at northwest corner
1969  1969   of North Section Avenue and Main Street for improvement of the intersection
             and creation of a municipal parking lot.
18-   2-10-  Amends Ord. 8-1969, authorizes purchase of the Clyde G. Erbeck property at
1969  1969   northwest corner of North Section Avenue and Main Street for improvement of
             the intersection and creation of a municipal parking lot.
Res.  7-26-  Sale of a 1.41 acre parcel, being part of northwest quarter of Section 35 in
8-    1971   Deerfield Township, and no longer needed by the city to Joseph L. and Fannie
1971         B. Davis.
6-    3-11-  Authorizes purchase of approximately 3.7 acres from Clyde and Thelma Erbeck
1974  1974   for extension of State Route 741 from U.S. Route 42 to Kings Mills Road.
17-   4-8-   Authorizes purchase from the John Mueller Co. of 32.372 acres for park and
1974  1974   recreation purposes.
19-   4-8-   Authorizes purchase of two parcels, one of 2.542 acres and one of 1.145 acres,
1974  1974   from Clyde and Thelma Erbeck for right-of-way and perpetual easement for
             extension of State Route 741 from U.S. Route 42 to Kings Mills Road.
29-   6-24-  Accepts from the Stearns and Foster Co. a gift of 4.161 acres of land.
1974  1974
23-   2-23-  Authorizes purchase of a parcel of 5.26087 acres adjoining present Mason well
1976  1976   field and acquisition of easement rights over 16.51765 acres, all for
             expansion of the Mason well field.
58-   6-14-  Purchase of southwest corner of Route 42 and Mason-Montgomery Road.
1976  1976
72-   10-10- Purchase of 210 through 214, 112, 116 and 200 Reading Road.
1977  1977
34-   4-10-  Appropriating Lot 72 being the Marlow property.
1978  1978
68-   6-26-  Purchase of Powell property at 105 N. East Street.
1978  1978
144-  11-13- Purchase of Woods property at intersection of Western Row and Snider Roads.
1978  1978
16-   2-26-  Purchase of right-of-way for expansion at Kings Mills Road and Route 42.
1979  1979
8-    1-25-  Appropriation of property for the improvement of the intersection of U.S.
1982  1982   Route 42 and Mason- Montgomery Road.
74-   9-13-  Appropriation of certain parcels of property for highway purposes.
1982  1982
31-   3-28-  Appropriation of certain property for the sewer improvement.
1983  1983
101-  10-29- Accepts deed from Kings Mills Farms, Inc. for 3.875 acres to be known as Water
1984  1984   Park Drive and Beach Boulevard.
42-   6-24-  Amends Ord. 32-1985 to purchase fee simple title to 0.5739 acres from Stearns
1985  1985   and Foster to install a railroad line to the city garage property.
80-   10-28- Purchase of Pine Hill Lakes property from U.S. Steel.
1985  1985
87-   10-26- Purchase of two acres on Socialville-Foster Road from Fox for construction of
134   1987   water tower.
88-   10-10- Repeals Ord. 88-76; authorizes purchase for city park entrance from Mason
128   1988   Local School District.
89-21 2-13-  Authorizes sale or transfer of land at 308 W. Main Street to Samuel G.
      1989   Muennich.
89-46 4-10-  Authorizes city to purchase 0.2036 acres of land at U.S. Route 42 and State
      1989   Route 741 from Henry and Gertrude Barnes.
92-19 2-24-  Purchase of 39.582 acres from Shakerland Farms for a well field.
      1992
92-80 8-10-  Purchase approximately eight acres from USX.
      1992
92-97 9-28-  Purchase approximately 19.864 acres from Albert and Gertrude Barnes.
      1992
92-   9-28-  Purchase approximately 1.211 acres from TFC, Inc.
112   1992
93-   10-11- Purchase from Cheryl Chunte for future expansion of city sewer treatment
106   1993   facility.
94-87 8-8-   Appropriation of property for Socialville-Foster Road Waterline Improvement
      1994   Project.
95-   12-11- Purchase of 36.975 acres from John Mueller Co. for a park.
150   1995
95-   12-11- Purchase of 6.228 acres from Leah Cowan for expansion of Heritage Oak Park.
151   1995
97-10 1-27-  Acquisition from J.G. Hancock Ltd. for State Route 741 widening project.
      1997
97-66 5-12-  Authorizes contract for purchase of water and acquisition of land to use water
      1997   supply.
98-   8-24-  Authorizes acquisition of 73.834 acres from B.J. Wester Kam and E.M. Nett.
120   1998
98-   9-14-  Authorizes acquisition of 2.70 acres from Small Brothers Partnership.
127   1998
99-36 2-8-   Authorizing the City Manager to acquire property from Sharon Sue Tebelman.
      1999
99-   10-11- Authorizes the acquisition of 105.499 acres from Northeast Associates.
157   1999
99-   10-11- Exchange of approximately 21.232 acres with Betty Jane Westerkamm.
165   1999
99-   11-22- Appropriation of property described in Exhibit A. (Tylersville Road Widening -
194   1999   Brookstone Homeowners Association).
99-   11-22- Appropriation of property described in Exhibit A. (Tylersville Road Widening -
195   1999   Brookstone Homeowners Association).
99-   11-22- Appropriation of property described in Exhibit A. (Tylersville Road Widening--
196   1999   Ertel).
99-   11-22- Appropriation of property described in Exhibit A. (Tylersville Road Widening--
197   1999   McGary).
99-   11-22- Appropriation of property described in Exhibit A. (Tylersville Road Widening--
198   1999   Stephenson/Walker).
99-   11-22- Appropriation of property described in Exhibit A. (Tylersville Road Widening--
199   1999   Stephenson/Walker).
99-   11-22- Appropriation of property described in Exhibit A. (Tylersville Road Widening--
200   1999   Stephenson).
99-   11-22- Authorizes the acquisition of 6.256 acres at 6891 Mason Road from Roger and
201   1999   Janet Hoskins.
99-   12-13- Authorizes the purchase of property at 690 Mason- Montgomery Road from David
220   1999   and Karen South.
2000- 4-10-  Authorizes the purchase of property at 600 Mason- Montgomery Road from Kenneth
44    2000   and Margaret Chappell.
2000- 4-24-  Authorizes the purchase of property at 534 Mason- Montgomery Road from Mildred
55    2000   and David Smith and Gloria Jean Migal.
2000- 5-8-   Authorizes the purchase of property at 640 Mason- Montgomery Road from William
59    2000   and June Trice.
2000- 5-22-  Authorizes the purchase of property at 548 Mason- Montgomery Road from Stephen
66    2000   and Ruth Suess.
2000- 8-14-  Authorizes the purchase of property at 610 S. Mason-Montgomery Road from
109   2000   Rosalie Fields.
2000- 8-28-  Authorizes the purchase of property at 576 S. Mason-Montgomery Road from Deana
122   2000   Davis.
2000- 10-23- Appropriation of property (Mason-Montgomery Road Widening - Chace).
166   2000
2000- 11-13- Authorizes the purchase of property at 620 Mason- Montgomery Road from Joseph
171   2000   and Alta Lassen.
2000- 11-13- Authorizes the purchase of property located at 526 Mason-Montgomery Road from
172   2000   Robert and Marian Chace.
2000- 12-11- Authorizes the purchase of property located at 102 W. North Street from Peter
207   2000   and Lynette Ashland.
2000- 12-11- Authorizes the purchase of property located at 560 Mason-Montgomery Road from
208   2000   Dave and Diane Beatty.
2000- 12-11- Authorizes the purchase of property located at 660 Mason-Montgomery Road from
209   2000   Earl Bowen.
2001- 4-9-   Appropriation of properties for the Mason- Montgomery Road widening project.
57    2001   (Repealed by Ord. 2001-86.)
2001- 4-9-   Appropriation of properties for the Mason- Montgomery Road widening project.
58    2001
2001- 4-9-   Appropriation of properties for the Mason- Montgomery Road project.
59    2001
2001- 4-23-  Appropriation of properties for the Mason- Montgomery Road project. (Repealed
68    2001   by Ord. 2001-88.)
2001- 4-23-  Appropriation of properties for the Mason- Montgomery Road project. (Repealed
69    2001   by Ord. 2001-87.)
2001- 4-23-  Appropriation of properties for the Mason- Montgomery Road project.
70    2001
2001- 5-14-  Authorizes purchase of property located at 129 Mason-Montgomery Road from
84    2001   Hubert Harrell and Janet V. Harrell.
2001- 5-14-  Appropriation of properties for the Mason- Montgomery Road widening project.
85    2001
2001- 5-14-  Repealing Ord. 2001-57 and appropriation of properties for the Mason-
86    2001   Montgomery Road widening project.
2001- 5-14-  Repealing Ord. 2001-69 and appropriation of properties for the Mason-
87    2001   Montgomery Road widening project.
2001- 5-14-  Repealing Ord. 2001-68 and appropriation of properties for the Mason-
88    2001   Montgomery Road widening project.
2001- 5-14-  Appropriation of properties for the Mason- Montgomery Road widening project.
89    2001
2001- 5-14-  Authorizes purchase of 120 acres from Lyle Castle.
91    2001
2001- 6-25-  Authorizes lease-purchase financing of city administration building.
120   2001
2001- 7-23-  Authorizes purchase of 102 acres from Adolph F. Biehle and Beverly O. Biehle.
132   2001
2001- 11-12- Authorizes purchase of property located adjacent to 204 Kings Mills Road from
188   2001   Christopher G. Bartlett.
2002- 4-22-  Authorizes purchase of property located at 113 South Mason-Montgomery Road
73    2002   from James E. Dapp and Beth Dapp.
2002- 8-26-  Authorizes purchase of property located at 106 N. Section Street and 100 E.
125   2002   Main Street from Reber Auto Body and Repair.
2002- 8-26-  Acquisition of property located at 133 S. Mason- Montgomery Road from Theodore
126   2002   J. Honerlaw and Tonya G. Honerlaw.
2003- 1-27-  Acquisition of property located at 136 S. Mason- Montgomery Road from John J.
17    2003   and Linda S. Favron.
2003- 4-14-  Authorizes purchase of property located at 201 Kings Mills Road from Michael
40    2003   R. and Nancy E. Mink.
2003- 4-14-  Acquisition of property located at 145 S. Mason- Montgomery Road from Thomas
42    2003   J. Winters and Erin M. Winters.
2003- 4-14-  Acquisition of property located at 4933 Laurelwood Court from John L. Taylor
43    2003   and Jo Ann Taylor.
2003- 5-12-  Acquisition of property located at 4976 Laurelwood Court from N.J. Policicchio
58    2003   and Denise Beauchamp.
2003- 5-28-  Acquisition of property located on Mason- Montgomery Road from Katherine,
61    2003   William A. and Lisa Richardson.
2003- 7-14-  Authorizes purchase of 1.56 acres located on the east side of U.S. Route 42,
85    2003   across the street, south of Opportunity Place, from Jack B. Nixon.
2003- 7-28-  Acquisition of rights-of-way for the proposed bike path on Ronald and Donna
91    2003   Barrett property at 207 Kings Mills Road.
2003- 9-8-   Authorizes purchase of property located at 100 W. Church Street from Kevin A
107   2003   Lapthorn and Janet L. Lapthorn.
2003- 9-22-  Authorizes purchase of property located at U.S. Route 42 at Hanover Drive from
110   2003   Boris Berger.
2003- 11-10- Authorizes purchase of property located at 5475 Mason Road from Eleanor M.
130   2003   Gould.
2004- 1-26-  Authorizes purchase with Royalmont Academy, Inc. for the acquisition of
09    2004   property located at 723 Western Row Road.
2004- 2-9-   Authorizes purchase with the Mason Masonic Temple Association Incorporated for
13    2004   the acquisition of property located at 73 Western Row Road.
2004- 5-10-  Authorizes sale of the city’s former municipal building property at 202 W.
58    2004   Main Street, and 109 N. East Street to Hifive Development, Inc. with buyer’s
             redevelopment commitments.
2004- 6-14-  Authorizes sale of the city’s property at 100 West Church Street to Janet
77    2004   Million.
2004- 6-28-  Authorizes acquisition of a portion of the property located at 6004 Western
80    2004   Row Road from A.J. Enterprises for right-of-way.
2004- 7-12-  Authorizes purchase from the State of Ohio of property in Warren County as
84    2004   fully described in Substitute House Bill 269 of the 125th General Assembly.
2004- 7-12-  Amending Ord. 2004-58 to authorize sale of the city’s former municipal
86    2004   building property at 202 W. Main Street, and 109 N. East Street to Art Deco
             Preservations, LLC with buyer’s redevelopment commitments.
2004- 7-26-  Authorizes purchase with Marathon Ashland Petroleum, LLC, for the acquisition
99    2004   of property located at 101 Reading Road.
2004- 9-13-  Authorizes purchase with John P. Gibson, trustee, for the acquisition of
118   2004   property located at 595 Western Row Road.
2004- 10-25- Authorizes purchase with Cambridge Investments, for the acquisition of
128   2004   property located at 1100 Snider Road.
2004- 12-13- Authorizes purchase with McNk Properties, LLC for the acquisition of property
147   2004   adjacent to the State of Ohio property located on U.S. Route 42.
2004- 12-13- Authorizes purchase with Mason Developmental Resources, Inc., f/k/a Connie D.,
148   2004   Inc., for the acquisition of property located at 740 Snider Road.
2004- 12-13- Authorizes purchase with Steve and Carol Ann Boymel for the acquisition of
149   2004   property located at 780 Snider Road.
2004- 12-13- Authorizes purchase with Carolyn K. Huff for the acquisition of property
153   2004   located at 644 Lindemann Lane.
2005- 3-14-  Authorizes purchase with Siderits Family Limited Partnership for the
27    2005   acquisition of property located at 211 W. Main Street.
2005- 3-28-  Authorizes purchase with Lawrence E. and Mary Janet Klasmeier for the
33    2005   acquisition of property located on Snider Road, Parcel No. 16-35-151-012.
2005- 3-28-  Authorizes purchase with David Family Limited Partnership for the acquisition
34    2005   of property located at 800 Reading Road.
2005- 4-11-  Authorizes purchase with Barr’s Furniture and Beverly A. Barr for the
41    2005   acquisition of property located at the southwest corner of Snider Road and
             U.S. Route 42.
2005- 7-11-  Authorizes a petition for appropriation of property necessary for the Snider
86    2005   Road Realignment Project, determining public exigency (Mason Developmental
             Resources, Inc.)
2005- 11-28- Authorizes purchase with Ronald W. and Donna L. Barrett for the acquisition of
152   2005   property located at 207 Kings Mills Road.
2005- 11-28- Authorizes purchase with the County Commissioners for right-of-way for the
153   2005   future extension of Wilkins Boulevard and to construct the extension at county
             expense.
2005- 12-12- Authorizes purchase with Basco Manufacturing Company for the acquisition of
162   2005   property and easements located at 7201 Snider Road.
2006- 2-13-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract to purchase with Edward
19    2006   Wayne Greene for the acquisition of property and easements located at 4703
             Socialville-Fosters Road.
2006- 6-12-  Authorizing the City Manager to accept the conveyance of Lot 7, Tylersville
62    2006   Crossing subdivision.
2006- 6-12-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract to purchase 142.3373 acres
70    2006   of State Route 741 known as White Oak Farms/Davidson property.
2006- 6-26-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement of purchase and sale
72    2006   for the purchase of the golf center at Kings Island from Grizzly Golf Center,
             Inc. for $9,000,000, including approximately 209 acres and all facilities.
2006- 9-11-  Authorizing an addendum to the agreement of purchase and sale for the purchase
112   2006   of the Golf Center at Kings Island from Grizzly Golf Center, Inc. (amending
             Ord. 2006-72).
2006- 11-27- Authorizing the City Manager to execute a second addendum to the agreement of
170   2006   purchase and sale for the purchase of the Golf Center at Kings Island from
             Grizzly Golf Center, Inc.
2006- 12-11- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for sale and purchase of
182   2006   Real Property with Phillip R. Carson and Loudonna Marsh Carson for an amount
             not to exceed $325,000.
2006- 12-11- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for sale and purchase of
183   2006   real property with Richard D. Hadley and Janet K. Hadley for an amount not to
             exceed $360,000.
2006- 12-11- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for sale and purchase of
184   2006   real property with estate of David Lutes, Janice Walker, Co- executrix and
             Paula Hummell, co-executrix for an amount not to exceed $162,750.
2006- 12-11- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for purchase and sale of
185   2006   property with Kingsway Community Church for an amount not to exceed $24,700.
2007- 1-8-   Authoring the City Manager to execute the third addendum to the agreement of
11    2007   purchase and sale for the purchase of the Golf Center at Kings Island from
             Grizzly Golf Center, Inc.
2007- 2-26-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for the acquisition of
29    2007   property located at 229 Mason-Montgomery Road with Jack M. Yost, Jr. and
             Teresa L. Yost.
2007- 3-26-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for the acquisition of
46    2007   property located at 226 Mason-Montgomery Road with Clarence A. Cowan III and
             Ava Jean Cowan.
2007- 3-23-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for the acquisition of
48    2007   property located at 224 Mason-Montgomery Road with U.S. Bank Home Mortgage.
2007- 3-23-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for the acquisition of
49    2007   property located at 222 Mason-Montgomery Road with Thomas R. Sies and Charlene
             F. Sies.
2007- 3-23-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for the acquisition of
50    2007   property located at 218 Mason-Montgomery Road with Douglas L. Holderbaum and
             Nancy Holderbaum.
2007- 3-23-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for the acquisition of
51    2007   property located at 108 and 112 Mason-Montgomery Road with Betty J. Childers.
2007- 3-26-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for the acquisition of
52    2007   property located at 212 Mason-Montgomery Road with Trent E. Heimann and Lisa
             A. Heimann.
2007- 5-8-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract to purchase with George,
54    2007   Robert and Donald Eberhard for the acquisition of property and easements
             located at 4753 Socialville-Fosters Road, Mason, Ohio.
2007- 4-9-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for the acquisition of
60    2007   property located at 200, 205, 206, 207 and 210 Mason-Montgomery Road with Don
             S. Bowyer.
2007- 4-23-  Approval of the replat for Lots 10, 11, 16 and 17 in Falling Brook Phase A.
61    2007
2007- 5-21-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for the acquisition of
72    2007   property located at 216 Mason-Montgomery Road with Bobby Jerry Glass.
2007- 6-18-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract, in an amount not to
91    2007   exceed $500, for the acquisition of property located at 209 Mason- Montgomery
             Road with Mason Grange No. 1680.
2007- 8-13-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract to sell city property at
118   2007   500 David Lane to Daniel and Jody Thieken.
2007- 9-24-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for the acquisition of
135   2007   property located at 216 Mason-Montgomery Road, N. Section Street and E. Main
             Street, with Bobby Jerry Glass, for an amount not to exceed $339,100.
2007- 9-24-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract sell the city’s property
137   2007   at 500 David Lane to Robert and Sandra Springer.
2007- 11-12- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for sale and purchase of
160   2007   real property with Roseann and Daniel Costello for an amount not to exceed
             $145,000.
2007- 11-26- Accepting the dedication of a right-of-way and easement and authorizing the
164   2007   execution of a deed for property for the Western Row Road improvement project
             (Miller, 460 Western Row Road).
2007- 11-26- Accepting the dedication of a right-of-way and easements and authorizing the
165   2007   execution of a deed for property for the Western Row Road improvement project
             (Wheeler, 348 Western Row Road).
2007- 11-26- Accepting dedication of right-of-way and easements and authorizing the
168   2007   execution of a deed for the Western Row Road improvement project (Hope
             Evangelical Free Church, 4934 Western Row Road).
2007- 11-26- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for the acquisition of
170   2007   property as part of the Western Row Road improvement project in an amount not
             to exceed $19,350 (Mason Fields HOA).
2007- 11-26- Accepting the donation of Lot 126 of Hickory Woods, Section 3, Block B to the
171   2007   city.
2008- 1-14-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for the acquisition of
01    2008   property as part of the Western Row Road improvement project in an amount not
             to exceed $ 24,800 (Village Lakes HOA).
2008- 2-11-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract to purchase with
19    2008   Jannelle K. Schoonover and Byron D. Swab for the acquisition of property
             located at 115 South East Street for $134,000 (SWAB).
2008- 6-8-   Authorizing the City Manager to negotiate the terms of an agreement or
76    2008   agreements for the acquisition of five acres of certain real property located
             in the city (Lakewood Commerce Center).
2008- 7-14-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement for the acquisition of
80    2008   five acres of certain real property located in the city (Lakewood Commerce
             Center).
             Authorizing the renaming of a five-acre tract containing house and barns to
2008- 9-8-   Kathlen Bevan Castle Park to adhere to the condition of the contract to sell
99    2008   executed between Lyle Castle and the city dated 5-18-2001 contained in Ord.
             2001-91.
2009- 2-23-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract to purchase with Green
13    2009   Valley Apartments, LLC, and JRM Ventures, LLC, for the acquisition of a
             portion of property located at 4800 Route 42 for $60,000.
2009- 7-13-  Accepting the donation of Lot 1 of the Mason Middle School PUD to the city.
71    2009
2009- 8-17-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into any necessary agreements with and
98    2009   purchase certain property from Homemade Dreams Coffee House, LLC.
2010- 1-11-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract to purchase with the
7     2010   estate of Mary E. Snider, Jacqueline Nelson, executor, for the acquisition of
             property located at 106 South East Street.
2010- 11-22- Authorizing the City Law Director to file petitions for appropriation of
130   2010   properties necessary for the U.S. 42 (Reading Road) improvement project,
             determining public exigency and declaring an emergency (AZIZ).
2010- 11-22- Authorizing the City Law Director to file petitions for appropriation of
131   2010   properties necessary for the U.S. 42 (Reading Road) improvement project,
             determining public exigency and declaring an emergency (BARR).
2010- 11-22- Authorizing the City Law Director to file petitions for appropriation of
132   2010   properties necessary for the U.S. 42 (Reading Road) improvement project,
             determining public exigency and declaring an emergency (BENSON).
             Authorizing the City Law Director to file petitions for appropriation of
2010- 11-22- properties necessary for the U.S. 42 (Reading Road) improvement project,
133   2010   determining public exigency and declaring an emergency (David Family LTD.
             partnership - Walgreens property).
             Authorizing the City Law Director to file petitions for appropriation of
2010- 11-22- properties necessary for the U.S. 42 (Reading Road) improvement project,
134   2010   determining public exigency and declaring an emergency (David Family LTD.
             partnership - Walgreens property).
2010- 11-22- Authorizing the City Law Director to file petitions for appropriation of
135   2010   properties necessary for the U.S. 42 (Reading Road) improvement project,
             determining public exigency and declaring an emergency (First Baptist Church).
2010- 11-22- Authorizing the City Law Director to file petitions for appropriation of
136   2010   properties necessary for the U.S. 42 (Reading Road) improvement project,
             determining public exigency and declaring an emergency (Jarvis Properties).
2010- 11-22- Authorizing the City Law Director to file petitions for appropriation of
137   2010   properties necessary for the U.S. 42 (Reading Road) improvement project,
             determining public exigency and declaring an emergency (Jeffery).
2010- 11-22- Authorizing the City Law Director to file petitions for appropriation of
138   2010   properties necessary for the U.S. 42 (Reading Road) improvement project,
             determining public exigency and declaring an emergency (Klasmeier).
2010- 11-22- Authorizing the City Law Director to file petitions for appropriation of
139   2010   properties necessary for the U.S. 42 (Reading Road) improvement project,
             determining public exigency and declaring an emergency (Lamping).
2010- 11-22- Authorizing the City Law Director to file petitions for appropriation of
140   2010   properties necessary for the U.S. 42 (Reading Road) improvement project,
             determining public exigency and declaring an emergency (Mason Crossing, LLC).
2010- 11-22- Authorizing the City Law Director to file petitions for appropriation of
141   2010   properties necessary for the U.S. 42 (Reading Road) improvement project,
             determining public exigency and declaring an emergency (Shroder).
2010- 11-22- Authorizing the City Law Director to file petitions for appropriation of
142   2010   properties necessary for the U.S. 42 (Reading Road) improvement project,
             determining public exigency and declaring an emergency (Stallcup).
2010- 11-22- Authorizing the City Law Director to file petitions for appropriation of
143   2010   properties necessary for the U.S. 42 (Reading Road) improvement project,
             determining public exigency and declaring an emergency (Trammel).
2011- 5-9-   Authorizing the City Manager to convey the real property located at the
50    2011   southwest corner of Sidwell 15054030050 on Reading Road, approximately 1.2
             acres, to the Mason Port Authority.
2011- 5-9-   Authorizing the City Manager to acquire approximately 3.4 acres of property at
51    2011   a price not to exceed $120,000.
2011- 6-13-  Authorizing the City Manager to acquire the real property located at 204 Kings
63    2011   Mills Road.
2011- 7-11-  Authorizing the City Manager to acquire approximately 3.4 acres of property at
38    2011   a price not to exceed $130,000 (S.R. 741 property).
2012- 11-26- Authorizing the City Manager to exercise the right to repurchase a certain
78    2012   parcel from Baeolophus (Seapine Software), located off Western Row Road.
             Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for sale and purchase
2013- 7-8-   and an offer to sell real property with K.P. Properties of Ohio in an amount
66    2013   not to exceed $2,300,000 and to pursue design and construction contracts in an
             amount not to exceed $2,700,000 related to the municipal garage project.
2013- 9-9-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for sale and purchase
77    2013   with Robert L. Turner and Carol Turner, in an amount not to exceed $60,000.00.
2013- 10-14- Authorizing the City Manager to execute a mutual termination agreement in the
82    2013   form of the agreement attached to Ord. 2013-82.
2013- 12-9-  Authorizing the City Manager to acquire approximately 3.2 acres of real
114   2013   property at a price not to exceed $1,100.00 (former Weatherstone Property).
2013- 12-9-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a letter of intent and to negotiate a
115   2013   related purchase agreement related to the sale of approximately nine acres on
             Innovation Way.
2014- 4-28-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for sale and purchase
29    2014   with AtriCure, Inc., related to approximately 10.5 acres of land, and
             authorizing certain economic development incentives.
2014- 5-12-  Authorizing the City Manager to negotiate the terms of a purchase and sale
39    2014   agreement with Properties of Terra Firma, Inc., related to approximately 178
             acres of real property.
2014- 7-14-  Authorizing a property swap with Deerfield Township.
62    2014
2014- 10-13- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract to purchase real estate
97    2014   with Dennis Bogan Main Street Properties, LLC.
2014- 11-24- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a purchase and sale agreement with
120   2014   Briarlake Limited II, related to approximately 7.9 acres of real property.
2014- 12-15- Authorizing the City Manager to acquire approximately 6 acres of real property
137   2014   at a price not to exceed $91,000 (former Weatherstone Property).
2015- 2-9-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for sale and purchase
21    2015   with 360 Pharma Group, LLC, related to not to exceed 50 acres of land, and
             authorizing certain economic development incentives.
2015- 11-23- Authorizing the City Manager to execute certain donation letters, deeds,
118   2015   easements, and other conveyance documents for property related to the Western
             Row Road Interchange Project.
2016- 2-22-  Authorizing the City Manager to negotiate the terms of a purchase and sale
34    2016   agreement with Bernice Stephenson related to approximately 33.5 acres of real
             property.
2016- 4-25-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a land installment contract with
68    2016   Bernice C. Stephenson and Richard Alan Walker related to approximately 33.5
             acres of real property.
2017- 9-11-  Accepting the donation of approximately 1.2 acres of land on the east side of
116   2017   U.S. Route 42, just north of Opportunity Place, to the city.
2017- 11-13- Accepting the donation of approximately 0.3902 acres of land on the east side
140   2017   of Interstate 71, just south of Kings Mills Road, to the city.
2018- 4-23-  Sale and purchase with Never Land Holdings I LLC related to approximately 2.04
60    2018   acres of real property at a purchase price of $225,000.
2018- 8-20-  Transfer of property from the Warren County Board of County Commissioners to
97    2018   the City of Mason for Common Ground Playground Project.
2019- 9-9-   Accepting the donation of approximately 2.85 acres of land on the east side of
100   2019   Innovation Way to the City of Mason.
2019- 9-9-   Sale and purchase with Mored 1, LLC and Rhinestall Corporation related to
107   2019   approximately +/- 50 acres of land, located in the area known as the Mason R&D
             Park West.
2019- 12-9-  Sale and purchase related to certain land located in the Mason R&D Park East
152   2019   on U.S. 42 at or near Ambleside.
2020- 1-13-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for sale and purchase
4     2020   with AM Baden Manufacturing, LLC and Vega Americas, Inc. and authorizing
             certain economic development incentives.
2020- 9-28-  Authorizing the City Law Director to file a petition for appropriation of
87    2020   property necessary for the S.R. 741 Widening Project (Sandra L. Eves).
2020- 9-28-  Authorizing the City Law Director to file a petition for appropriation of
88    2020   property necessary for the S.R. 741 Widening Project (GBVS Ohio Holdings I,
             LLC).
2020- 9-28-  Authorizing the City Law Director to file a petition for appropriation of
89    2020   property necessary for the S.R. 741 Widening Project (PS Mid-West Two-Mason,
             LLC).
2020- 9-28-  Accepting the transfer of land from T.E.J. Holdings, Inc. to the city for $1
94    2020   and authorizing the City Manager to execute contract documents.
2021- 4-12-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for sale and purchase
57    2021   with A&M S, LLC (Schappacher Property).
2021- 4-12-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for the sale and
58    2021   purchase with Promark Development, Inc.; Tri-State Landscape Supply, Inc.; and
             Michael Jason Brunk (Brunk Property).
2021- 6-14-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for sale and purchase
67    2021   with Mesa Properties, LLC.
2021- 7-12-  Authorizing the City Law Director to file a petition for appropriation of
75    2021   property necessary for the U.S. 42 Roundabouts Project (State Route 42 Mason,
             LLC and ICP State Route 42, LLC).
2021- 7-12-  Authorizing the City Law Director to file a petition for appropriation of
76    2021   property necessary for the U.S. 42 Roundabouts Project (Sandra L. Eves).
2021- 10-25- Authorizing the City Manager to execute a purchase and sale agreement and an
111   2021   economic participation agreement related to the purchase of approximately 27
             acres of the former Western Row Golf Course.
2021- 11-8-  Amending Ordinance 2021-111 regarding a purchase and sale agreement and a
112   2021   related economic participation agreement related to approximately 27 acres of
             the former Western Row Golf Course.
Res.  8-8-   Appropriating property for the SR 741 Improvement Project from Cox-Smith Road
2022- 2022   to Spyglass Hill (Sandeep Basu and Preeti Basu).
19
2022- 9-20-  Authorizing the City Law Director to file a petition for appropriation of
95    2022   property necessary for the SR 741 Widening Project (Sandeep Basu and Preeti
             Basu).
2023- 6-12-  Accepting the donation of approximately 0.15 acres of land on the east side of
58    2023   Western Row Road, just south of Stitt Road, parcel number 16294000300, being
             all of Lot 3 in the Renner Farm Subdivision.
            
 
TABLE F: LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
179       3-7-1921    Lease of municipal property.
Res. B-20 8-10-1942   Lease of office space in municipal building.
Res. C-23 3-25-1946   Lease to Deerfield Manufacturing Co. of building and land
                      formerly occupied by the Municipal Light Plant.
Res. D-97 12-11-1956  Extends lease to U.S. Post Office Department of space in
                      municipal building for one year from 1-1-1957.
31-1968   7-15-1968   Lease from Penn Central Co. of a 58,500 square feet
                      parcel from 7-1-1968 to 9-30-1968.
51-1968   10-7-1968   Renewal of lease from Penn Central Co. of a 58,500 square
                      feet parcel from 10-1-1968 to 12-31-1968.
                      Authorizes lease of approximately one acre at 409 Reading
27-1970   4-16-1970   Road for storage of impounded vehicles and other scrap
                      material for 90 days.
                      Lease from American Modulars Corp. of part of Lot 239 of
48-1973   5-14-1973   proposed Block F and G, Parts 1 and 2 of Olympia Fields
                      Subdivision for educational, recreational and other civic
                      activities.
5-1980    1-28-1980   Lease with the Mason Amateur Athletic Association for a
                      refreshment stand location.
22-1980   3-24-1980   Lease with the Board of Trustees of the Mason Public
                      Library.
9-1981    1-26-1981   Lease with the Board of Trustees of the Mason Public
                      Library.
21-1984   2-27-1984   Lease with Taft Broadcasting Co. for a right-of- way at
                      Eagleview and Fairway Drive.
57-1985   8-12-1985   With Indiana & Ohio Railroad Company for an engine house
                      and access thereto.
86-34     4-28-1986   Lease of acreage at the Corwin M. Nixon Park- Pike Hill
                      Lakes for soybean farming.
89-148    12-28-1989  With Mason Youth Organization for refreshment stand in
                      Heritage Oak Park.
94-61     5-23-1994   Acreage at southeast corner of State Route 741 and
                      Bethany Road for farming.
97-17     1-27-1997   Addendum to lease of City Hall annex office space at 214
                      W. Main Street for rental of second floor.
98-27     2-23-1998   Authorizes lease extension City Hall Annex office space
                      (214 W. Main Street).
98-204    12-14-1998  Authorizes lease for Fire Department administrative
                      office space.
2000-29   3-13-2000   Authorizes the lease of 78.3 acres on State Route 741,
                      south of Bunnell Road, for farming.
                      Amends lease with Sprintcom, Inc. for the installation of
2000-36   3-27-2000   additional telecommunications equipment on the Snider
                      Road Water Tower.
2000-71   5-22-2000   Extends the lease for City Hall annex office space at 214
                      W. Main Street.
2002-16   1-14-2002   Authorizes lease of 103 acres at 2711 U.S. Route 42 for
                      farming. (Castle property).
2002-17   1-14-2002   Authorizes lease of 101.8 acres at 3200 Mason- Morrow
                      Road for farming (Biehle property).
2004-29   3-8-2004    Authorizes lease of the acreage at 5475 Mason Road for
                      farming (Gould property).
2005-31   3-28-2005   Authorizes lease for farming of city acreage.
                      Designating a preferred provider and authorizing the City
2007-178  11-26-2007  Manager to negotiate a contract with Tri-Health for a
                      long term space lease and health services operation.
                      Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a long term
2008-96   8-11-2008   space lease with Bethesda Hospital, Inc. (Tri- Health
                      agreement).
                      Authorizing the city to enter into a lease agreement to
                      provide financing and committing the city to utilize the
2009-29   4-27-2009   Mason Port Authority capital funding revenue bonds (local
                      government pooled financing program) for an expansion of
                      the community center.
                      Authorizing the refunding of a lease, the lease- purchase
2010-106  9-13-2010   refinancing of a city administration building, including
                      a ground lease agreement and a lease agreement, and
                      matters related thereto.
                      Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a
2010-113  11-1-2010   communication site lease agreement with Clear Wireless,
                      LLC.
2010-118  11-1-2010   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a golf
                      facility lease agreement with Tennis for Charity, Inc.
2010-146  11-22-2010  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a lease
                      agreement with Storeflix, LLC.
2011-20   2-28-2011   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a lease
                      agreement with Cincytech USA.
2011-95   10-10-2011  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a lease
                      agreement with AssureRx Health, Inc.
2012-11   2-13-2012   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an amendment to
                      the existing lease agreement with Storeflix, LLC.
2012-12   2-13-2012   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a lease
                      agreement with mDynamik, LLC.
2012-34   4-23-2012   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a lease
                      agreement with AssureRx Health, Inc.
2012-60   8-13-2012   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an amended
                      lease agreement with AssureRx Health, Inc.
2013-17   1-28-2013   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a lease
                      agreement with TEC Engineering, Inc.
2014-98   10-13-2014  Authorizing the City Manager to execute Addendum No. 1 to
                      the existing lease agreement with AssureRx Health, Inc.
                      Authorizing the City Manager to terminate an existing
2015-47   4-27-2015   lease with the Indiana and Ohio Railroad Company and to
                      acquire any improvements upon said leased property.
2015-106  10-12-2015  Authorizing the City Manager to execute Addendum No. 2 to
                      the existing lease agreement with Assurex Health, Inc.
2015-107  10-12-2015  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a lease
                      agreement with Include-Fitness, LLC.
                      Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a lease
2016-30   2-8-2016    agreement with Royalty Trucking, LLC for certain property
                      located at 4211 S. Route 741.
                      Authorizing the City Manager to execute the second
2016-124  11-14-2016  addendum to the Golf Facility lease agreement with Tennis
                      for Charity, Inc.
2016-125  11-14-2016  Authorizing the City Manager to execute certain addenda
                      to lease agreement with Assurex Health, Inc.
                      Repealing Ord. 2016-125, and authorizing the City Manager
2017-62   4-24-2017   to execute certain addenda to lease agreements with
                      Assurex Health, Inc.
                      Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a ground lease
2017-96   7-10-2017   agreement with the Board of County Commissioners of
                      Warren County related to the Common Ground Park project.
                      Authorizing the City Manager to execute the first
2018-95   8-20-2018   amendment to lease agreement with Bethesda Hospital, Inc.
                      (TriHealth amendment).
                      Authorizing amendments to a lease agreement and a
2019-29   2-25-2019   supplemental indenture, and related documents, modifying
                      the base rent payments under a lease- purchase financing
                      of municipal facilities.
2019-134  10-28-2019  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a lease
                      agreement with Genetesis, LLC.
                      Authorizing the City Manager to execute an addendum to a
2022-34   2-28-2022   lease agreement with Myriad Neuroscience dba Assurex
                      Health, Inc.
2022-43   3-14-2022   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a farm lease
                      agreement for 2022-224.
2022-44   3-14-2022   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a lease
                      agreement for 3827 US Route 42.
2022-45   3-14-2022   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a lease
                      agreement for 3829 US Route 42.
2023-97   11-13-2023  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a lease
                      expansion agreement with Genetesis, LLC.
                     
 
TABLE G: STREET GRADE LEVELS AND CHANGE OF STREET NAME
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
147   9-19-  Grade of East Street north of Church Street.
      1911
150   1-1-   Grade for sidewalk on south side of Lebanon Pike along Lots 161 and 162.
      1912
171   10-25- Grade for sidewalk on north side of Church Street, from West Street, to the
      1915   C.L. & N. Ry.
196   11-7-  Grade of Williams Street.
      1927
-15   7-29-  Grade of Church Street from Pond Street to Bethany - Mason Pike and of
      1942   Frank Street from Church Street to High Street.
-58   9-27-  Grade of Church Street from Pond Street to Bethany-Mason Pike and of Frank
      1943   Street from Church Street to High Street Repeals Ord. B-15.
      5-25-  Street running northwest-southeast between Pike and West Streets and
C-20  1946   northeast of Lots 283, 296, 297 and southeast of Lots 282 and 295 to be
             named Third Avenue.
           Change of street name:
           Northwest Street to Forest Avenue;
           Pond Street to Forest Avenue;
           Southwest Street to First Avenue;
           Second Street to Second Avenue;
           Crane Street to Fourth Avenue;
           Pike Street to Reading Road; and
           Section Line Street to Section Avenue.
             Main Street to be dividing line between north and south of street running
           north-south and Section Avenue to be dividing line between east and west of
             streets running east-west.
      11-25- Alley running southeast from Main to Cox Streets and south from Cox to Kohl
C-37  1946   Streets and located east and southeast of Lots 173, 168, 159 and 152 to be
             named Fox Drive;
           Alley running north one block from Church Street and between North Forest
             Avenue and Frank Street to be named Burke Drive;
           Alley running east-west between Oak and Frank Streets and north of Lots 38,
             41, 42 through 47 to be named Miller Drive;
           Alley running east-west between North Forest Avenue and North West Street
             and north of Lots 99 and 100 to be named Buerkle Drive;
             Alley running east-west between South West and South East Streets, and
           north of Lots 115 through 119 and south of Lots 109 through 114 to be named
             Aurker Drive; and
           Street or alley south from intersection of Short and South East Street to
             be named South East Street.
      9-24-  Street names in Mason Meadows Subdivision: Street running west from
D-17  1951   Williams Street and on north side of Lots 6, 34 through 41 and 56 to be
             named Western Ave; and
           Street running west from Williams Street to westerly corporation line and
             parallel to Western Avenue to be named Lindemann Drive.
E-63  3-11-  Change of street name:
      1959
           (1) Mason-Mauds Road to Tylersville Road from U.S. Route 42 west to
             corporation line;
           (2) Snider or Socialville Road to Snider Road from U.S. Route 42 south to
             corporation line;
           (3) U.S. Route 42 to Reading Road from Main Street southwest to corporation
             line;
           (4) Mason-Montgomery Road to South Section Road from Main Street south to
             Western Row Road;
           (5) West Indianwood Boulevard to Cherokee Drive from Western Row Road north
             to Cherokee Dr;
           (6) West Indianwood Boulevard to Apache Lane from Cherokee Drive East to
             East Indianwood Boulevard;
           (7) Part of Cherokee Drive running east-west to Cocinda Lane;
           (8) East Indianwood Boulevard to Indianwood Drive;
           (9) Indian Hill Drive to Seneca Drive;
           (10) Road south of and adjacent to St. Susanna’s School to be named Fifth
             Street; and
           (11) Road between Indian Hill Drive and East Indianwood Boulevard to be
             named Mohawk Lane.
H-65  8-8-   Changes name of Greenfield Drive to Southwind Drive.
      1966
20-   2-24-  Grade of Bethany Road from U.S. Route 42 westerly a distance of 500 feet
1969  1969
51-   9-28-  Changes name of Deerfield Court to Windsong Drive.
1970  1970
41-   6-25-  Changes name of North Section and South Section Avenues to Mason-Montgomery
1973  1973   Road.
39-   4-28-  Establishing and naming Walter E. Chesney Way.
1980  1980
91-12 2-11-  Establishing and naming Joe Barr Way.
      1991
92-84 8-10-  Establishing and naming Dr. Frank Batsche Way.
      1992
92-85 8-10-  Establishing and naming Dr. Tom Fox Way.
      1992
93-45 5-10-  Renaming alley between Dawson and Fox as Chief Edwards Lane.
      1993
95-67 7-10-  Naming Doc Erbeck Way.
      1995
2001- 9-10-  Renaming Westridge Lane in Arbor Creek Subdivision as Ivygrove Lane.
169   2001
2001- 12-10- Renaming Stitt Road from Mason-Montgomery Road to its intersection with
221   2001   Western Row Road as Tylersville Road.
           Establishing North Stitt Road, South Stitt Road and Aero Drive.
           Renaming Western Row Road to Old Western Row Road off of Western Row Road
             to the right before Western Row Road meets Tylersville Road.
2005- 10-10- Establishing and naming Ruth Chesney Way.
124   2005
2006- 6-26-  Changing the name of Pin Oak Court in the landing of Oakwood Lakes to Red
73    2006   Oak Court.
2007- 8-27-  Establishing and naming Bercaw Way.
120   2007
2007- 10-8-  Renaming Brown Boulevard to Stress Engineering Way.
141   2007
            
 
TABLE H: ANNEXATION AND DETACHMENT OF TERRITORY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             Detachment of parcel of land in vicinity of south and east corporation lines
148   11-2-  and Section Line Street, Kings Mills Road and Muddy Creek; also, a parcel in
      1911   northeast corner of the corporation in vicinity of Lebanon Pike and T. Burton
             Scotts’s lands.
209   12-29- Annexation of 3.80 acres fronting on Mason- Bethany Pike and being part of
      1929   Section 36, Deerfield Township.
D-4   12-26- Annexation of 10.70 acres, being part of Section 36 in Deerfield Township and
      1950   lying along west side of Williams Street and south of Dilley Subdivision.
D-20  11-26- Annexation of 33.18 acres and 0.329 acres being part of Deerfield Township,
      1951   Section 36; Town 4, Range 2.
             Annexation of all of Section 35 and parts of Sections 5, 6, 23, 24, 29, 30 and
             36 all in Deerfield Township and bounded in part by north and east lines of
      9-22-  Elkwood and Mason Heights Subdivisions, Mason-Kings Mills Road, east line of
E-41  1958   American Legion property, east line of Mason Board of Education property,
             Stitt Road, Mason- Montgomery Road, Western Row Road, west line of Tri-County
             Developers, Inc. property, east and north lines of the Crosley Broadcasting
             Co. property, and south and east perimeters of existing corporation line.
      4-27-  Annexation of part of Sections 4 and 5 in Deerfield Township and bounded on
E-70  1959   the west by Butler-Warren County Line Road and on the east by present west
             corporation line and on the south by Western Row Road.
F-22  3-27-  Annexation of 87.069 acres, being part of Section 4, Deerfield Township and
      1961   adjacent to U.S. Route 42 and east of Butler-Warren County Line Road.
      6-5-   Annexation of 61.964 acres in Section 25 and 21.648 acres in Section 30, both
F-28  1961   in Deerfield Township and lying between U.S. Route 42 and the C.L. & N. Ry.
             right-of-way.
G-9   1-28-  Annexation of 148.984 acres, being part of Sections 28 and 29 in Deerfield
      1963   Township and adjacent to Western Row Road and Mason- Montgomery Road.
             Annexation of 768 acres, with 476 acres being part of Sections 19 and 20 of
G-14  2-25-  Union Township and 292 acres being part of Sections 25 and 30 of Deerfield
      1963   Township, and partly bounded by U.S. Route 42, Bethany Road, west right-of-way
             line of Pennsylvania Railroad, State Route 741 and Mason-Morrow Road.
G-87  10-26- Annexation of 6.478 acres adjacent to Fifth Addition to Mason Heights
      1964   Subdivision and fronting on southeast side of Cox-Smith Road.
H-15  6-14-  Annexation of 98.612 acres owned by William Koch and fronting on northwest
      1965   side of U.S. Route 42 and east of Olympia Fields Subdivision.
H-66A 8-22-  Annexation of 13 acres owned by Mason Board of Education and lying north of
      1966   North Crest Drive in Mason Heights Subdivision.
      7-11-  Annexation of 14.306 acres fronting on south side of Western Row Road and
H-67  1966   lying 240 feet east of Snider Road, 11.445 acres owned by the Mason Board of
             Education and 2.861 acres owned by the Church of Christ.
2-    3-18-  Annexation of 1.240 acres bounded by Section Avenue, Pennsylvania Railroad and
1968  1968   the present northerly corporation line.
75-   12-23- Annexation of 72.514 acres, being part of Section 36, Deerfield Township and
1968  1968   lying west of Mason Meadows Subdivision and north of the present corporation
             line.
             Annexation of 225.808 acres, being parts of Sections 24 and 30, Deerfield
67-   12-14- Township, and partly bounded by First Addition to Mason Heights Subdivision,
1970  1970   Mason Board of Education lands, American Colony Development lands, Cox-Smith
             and Kings Mills Road.
27-   6-28-  Annexation of 12.8 acres, being part of Section 19, Union Township and part of
1971  1971   Section 25, Deerfield Township, and partly bounded by State Route 741,
             Pennsylvania Railroad and Bethany Road.
34-   10-11- Annexation of 50 acres on east side of Butler- Warren Road and north of
1971  1971   Windward Drive.
29-   6-12-  Annexation of 82.753 acres, Robert Smith property, being part of Section 19,
1972  1972   Union Township and lying north of Cox-Smith Road and east of the present
             corporation line.
45-   12-11- Annexation of 264.163 acres, being part of Sections 25 and 30, Deerfield
1972  1972   Township, and lying mostly between Bethany Road and the Penn- Central
             Railroad.
14-   7-8-   Annexation of two parcels of 75.0113 and 76.061 acres each, being part of
1974  1974   Section 4, Town 3, Range 2 in the city and lying between Western Row Road and
             the Penn-Central Railroad.
75-   12-21- Annexation of 7.21 acres owned by Paul and Jim Grammas, and being part of
1974  1974   Section 5 in Deerfield Township.
             Annexation of 303.20 acres, being part of Sections 23 and 24, Town 4, Range 2,
10-   3-10-  in Deerfield Township and lying between Interstate Highway I-71 and the city
1975  1975   corporation line; also, known as the Taft Broadcasting Co. property and/or the
             Kings Island Golf Co. property.
26-   6-23-  Annexation of 119.82 acres on Mason- Montgomery Road adjacent to the present
1975  1975   corporation line and being part of Sections 28 and 34, Town 4, Range 2, in
             Deerfield Township.
27-   6-23-  Annexation of 7.439 acres, the Church of Christ property, and being part of
1975  1975   Section 34, Town 4, Range 2, in Deerfield Township.
             Accepts application of The Crooked Tree Company Ltd. and others for annexation
22-   3-8-   of two parcels totaling 575.363 acres, being parts of Sections 27 and 33 in
1976  1976   Turtlecreek Township and parts of Sections 31, 32, 2 and 25 in Deerfield
             Township, all in the vicinity of Bethany and Mason-Montgomery Roads.
52-   6-14-  Annexation of 84.339 acres off Western Row Road being the Durrell and Hunt
1976  1976   land.
21-   4-25-  Annexation of 1.054 acres in Deerfield Township by D. J. Properties, Inc.
1977  1977
80-   11-14- Annexation of 186.19 acres in Union Township by Houston and Poff.
1977  1977
7-    2-27-  Annexation of 2.290 acres in Deerfield Township by Warren County Board of
1978  1978   Commissioners.
12-   3-27-  Annexation of 122.482 acres in Deerfield Township by Previews Unlimited, Inc.
1978  1978
17-   3-28-  Annexation of 1.32 acres in Deerfield Township by Burchwell.
1978  1978
66-   6-26-  Annexation of 65.156 acres in Union Township by Previews Unlimited, Inc.
1978  1978
9-    1-22-  Annexation application of Fox for 3 aces in Deerfield Township near northwest
1979  1979   right-of-way of Reading Road (U.S. Route 42).
31-   4-9-   Annexation application of Hosea for 2.152 acres in Deerfield Township near
1979  1979   intersection of Western Avenue and Williams Street.
70-   6-11-  Annexation application of Ohio Department of Administrative Services for
1979  1979   33.9304 acres near Tylersville Road (County Road No. 57).
52-   5-27-  Annexation of 105.980 acres in the petition of Everybody’s Farm, Inc.
1980  1980
2-    1-10-  Annexation application of Allie M. Pottorf, Taft Broadcasting Co., Trend
1983  1983   Investments and George Henkle Associates for 4.644 acres on Kings Mills Road
             at Fairway Drive.
20-   3-14-  Annexation application of Mary M. Walker and Mildred M. Layman for 0.538 acres
1983  1983   in Deerfield Township.
103-  10-24- Annexation of 1.825 acres in Union Township by Janet and Jack Snowden, and
1983  1983   Lois McDaniel.
60-   7-23-  Annexation of 3.27 acres in Turtle Creek Township by Rodney and Susan Hiestand
1984  1984   and Equitable Life Assurance of U.S.
70-   8-13-  Annexation of 375.444 acres in Deerfield Township by the Kingspoint Inn.
1984  1984
76-   8-27-  Annexation of 109.129 acres in Deerfield Township by Tower Associates.
1984  1984
43-   7-8-   Annexation application of Bonham and Ledky Co. for 3.386 acres in Deerfield
1985  1985   Township.
86-2  1-13-  Annexation application of Richard Staten for 5.183 acres in Deerfield
      1986   Township.
86-18 2-24-  Annexation application of Cincinnati Electronics for 285.543 acres in
      1986   Deerfield Township.
86-32 4-14-  Annexation application of I.M. Carter, Louam Corp., Inc. and C.F. Carter for
      1986   2.782 acres in Union Township.
86-33 4-14-  Annexation application of Sidney A. and Miriam Peerless, Irvin and Ida Bess
      1986   Warth and Uriel and Yael Ramen for 181.860 acres in Deerfield Township.
86-55 6-9-   Annexation application of Floyd N. and Lila I. Lantzer and Vernon C. and Mary
      1986   Joan Gardner for 1.5018 acres in Union Township.
86-87 9-5-   Annexation application of Jerome and Donna Shircliff for 1.650 acres in
      1986   Deerfield Township.
86-98 10-27- Annexation application of owners for 5.742 (+1-) acres in Deerfield Township.
      1986
86-   11-10- Annexation application of Byron E. and Robert Swainey for 1.332 acres in
101   1986   Deerfield Township.
87-2  1-9-   Annexation application of owners for 102.862 acres in Deerfield Township.
      1987
88-2  1-11-  Annexation application of William R. and Edlyn S. Simmons, and Paul D. Jones
      1988   for 17.448 acres at 5536 Brewer Road in Deerfield Township.
88-56 5-23-  Annexation application of William and Venetta Varnau, Helen J. Tettlebach and
      1988   Ruth D. and Harry C. Wetekam for 127.807 acres in Deerfield Township.
88-95 7-25-  Annexation application of Lena Ball for 12.0 acres in Deerfield Township.
      1988
88-99 8-8-   Amends Ord. 88-56 by changing land amount to 128.78 acres in Deerfield
      1988   Township.
88-   9-12-  Annexation application of Gary R. and Leah J. Smith for 2.907 acres in
113   1988   Deerfield Township.
88-   10-24- Accepts annexation of 4.592 acres in Deerfield Township owned by Barnthoose,
132   1988   Buhrlage, Rhodes and Zachman.
88-   12-12- Accepts annexation of 3.621 acres in Deerfield Township owned by Bullock.
152   1988
89-2  1-23-  Accepting annexation petition filed by Carter for 68.929 acres in Deerfield
      1989   Township.
89-8  1-23-  Accepting annexation petition filed by David K. Batsche, agent for 289.193
      1989   acres in Deerfield Township (Grace Baptist Church).
89-9  1-23-  Accepting annexation petition filed by Durrell and Hunt for 80.189172 acres in
      1989   Deerfield Township.
89-39 3-27-  Accepting annexation application of Philip C. and Lucy J. Renner for 0.969
      1989   acres in Deerfield Township.
89-87 7-12-  Accepting annexation application of Bernice C. Stephenson for 73.823 acres in
      1989   Deerfield Township.
89-   9-25-  Approves annexation application of Lawson, Schwarz and Maggard for 52.623
124   1989   acres in Deerfield Township.
89-   11-13- Approves annexation application of Baugh for 4.9108 acres in Union Township.
145   1989
90-36 3-26-  Annexation application of Jordan and Clutter for 6.15 acres in Deerfield
      1990   Township.
90-37 4-9-   Annexation application of Hunter Savings Association and Hunt for 201.269
      1990   acres in Deerfield Township.
91-6  1-14-  Annexation application of Melvin Keith and Dorene Mae Elswick for 5.2042 acres
      1991   in Turtlecreek Township and 0.179 acres in Deerfield Township.
92-12 2-10-  Annexation application of KSK Development Co., for 158.846 acres in Deerfield
      1992   Township.
92-69 7-13-  Annexation application of Ralph and Bonnie Mills for 2.5 acres in Deerfield
      1992   Township.
92-79 9-14-  Annexation application of Robert and Margaret Coleman and Lloyd Chalk for
      1992   22.313 acres in Deerfield Township.
             Annexation application of Donald and Eileen Sowders, Edward and Josephine
92-98 9-14-  Phelan, Mason City School Board, Heritage Presbyterian Church, United Liberty
      1992   Life Ins. Co. and K.S.K. Development Co. for 57.7133 acres in Deerfield
             Township.
93-3  1-11-  Annexation application of Stevens and Muennich for 1.94 acres in Union
      1993   Township.
93-15 2-8-   Annexation application of TFC, Inc. for 138.945 acres in Deerfield Township.
      1993
93-43 5-10-  Annexation application of West Mason Church of Christ for 1.077 acres in
      1993   Deerfield Township.
93-56 5-24-  Annexation application of Shaw for 4.75 acres in Deerfield Township.
      1993
93-68 6-28-  Annexation application of Lau, Monce, Al Neyer, Inc., Stephenson, Renner and
      1993   the Drees Co. for 147.531 acres in Deerfield Township.
93-   9-27-  Annexation application of Stevens and Muennich for 1.702 acres in Union
100   1993   Township.
94-99 9-12-  Annexation application of Leona S. Eifert, William C. Eifert, Frank C. Eifert
      1994   and Daniel L. Eifert for 78.011 acres in Deerfield Township.
94-   11-14- Annexation application of Gordon Bernard, Frances Bernard and Robert Sherman
112   1994   for 113.4988 acres in Deerfield Township.
95-15 2-13-  Annexation application of Michael T. Schueler for 384.3022 acres in Deerfield
      1995   Township.
95-   12-11- Accepting annexation application of Stanley and John Mathews for 39.6767 acres
143   1995   in Deerfield Township.
95-   12-11- Accepting annexation application of Hosea and Hilker for 86.270 acres in
144   1995   Deerfield Township.
96-1  1-8-   Accepting annexation application of Procter and Gamble, et al. for 262.36
      1996   acres in Deerfield Township.
96-93 7-8-   Accepting annexation application of Erik A. Peters, agent, for 1.974 acres in
      1996   Deerfield Township.
96-   11-11- Accepting annexation application of Tedd Friedman, agent, for 5.85 acres in
166   1996   Deerfield Township.
96-   11-25- Accepting annexation application of Edith Estes, agent, for 4.975 acres in
168   1996   Deerfield Township.
97-4  1-13-  Accepting annexation application of Martin J. Kenworthy, agent, for 95.813
      1997   acres in Deerfield Township.
97-5  1-13-  Accepting annexation application of Daniel A. Neyer, owner of 180.4872 acres
      1997   in Deerfield Township.
97-6  1-13-  Accepting annexation application of Mark G. Stenger, agent for 143.298 acres
      1997   in Deerfield Township.
97-60 4-28-  Accepts annexation application of R.L. and M.E. Coleman for 129.915 acres in
      1997   Deerfield Township.
97-84 6-23-  Accepts annexation application of J.M. and J.K. Allison and G. and J.E.
      1997   Honerlaw for 66.31 acres in Deerfield Township.
97-90 7-28-  Accepts annexation on application of J. and M. Miller, owners of .940 acres in
      1997   Deerfield Township.
97-   10-13- Accepts annexation on application of M.J. Kenworthy, agent, for 834.005 acres
121   1997   in Deerfield Township (Kings Island).
98-23 2-23-  Accepts annexation on application of D.W. Reibold, agent, for 127.6382 acres
      1998   in Deerfield Township.
98-   9-14-  Authorizes pre-annexation agreement with B. and L.L. Bedinghaus for annexing
121   1998   and extension of water service.
98-   9-28-  Accepts annexation on application of C. and N. Riffe, owners of .976 acres in
132   1998   Deerfield Township.
98-   10-12- Authorizes pre-annexation agreement with G.P. and D. Mullins for annexing and
134   1998   extension of water service.
98-   12-14- Accepts annexation on application of I. Muennich and M.J. Pence, owners of
190   1998   55.928 acres in Deerfield Township.
99-   10-25- Accepts annexation on application of the owner of certain property containing
179   1999   101.7063 acres in Deerfield Township.
2000- 2-14-  Accepts annexation on application of the owner of certain property containing
21    2000   101.7063 acres in Deerfield Township.
2001- 1-22-  Accepts annexation on application of the owner of certain property containing
12    2001   29.376 acres in Deerfield Township.
2001- 1-22-  Accepts annexation on application of the owner of certain property containing
13    2001   11.386 acres in Deerfield Township.
2001- 1-22-  Accepts annexation on application of the owner of certain property containing
14    2001   3.948 acres in Deerfield Township.
2001- 1-22-  Accepts annexation on application of the owner of certain property containing
15    2001   3.190 acres in Deerfield Township.
2001- 2-26-  Accepts annexation on application of the owner of certain property containing
37    2001   2.602 acres in Turtlecreek Township.
2001- 2-26-  Accepts annexation on application of the owner of certain property containing
38    2001   7.334 acres in Union Township.
2001- 8-13-  Statement of benefits of annexation of property included in petition filed by
145   2001   Joseph A. and Sally Hermann.
2001- 8-27-  Statement of benefits of annexation of property included in petition filed by
155   2001   Mark and Kimberly Schappacher.
2001- 10-22- Pre-annexation agreement with Robert and Diane Beatty.
178   2001
2001- 10-22- Statement of benefits of annexation of property included in petition filed by
179   2001   Gregory P. and Deanna Mullins.
2001- 10-22- Statement of benefits of annexation of property included in petition filed by
180   2001   Board of Education, Mason City Schools and Bradley J. and Marilyn R. Mitchell.
2001- 12-10- Benefits of annexation included in the petition filed by Adoph F. and Beverly
213   2001   O Biehle.
2001- 12-10- Benefits of annexation included in the petition filed by Robert and Diana
214   2001   Beatty.
2002- 1-14-  Accepts annexation on application of the owner of certain property containing
02    2002   2.742 acres located in Deerfield Township.
2002- 3-11-  Accepts annexation on application of the owner of certain property containing
43    2002   78.2237 acres in Deerfield Township.
2002- 3-11-  Accepts annexation on application of the owner of certain property containing
44    2002   4.663 acres in Deerfield Township.
2002- 4-22-  Accepts annexation on application of the owner of certain property containing
64    2002   101.795 acres in Union Township.
2002- 4-22-  Accepts annexation on application of the owner of certain property containing
65    2002   3.2589 acres in Deerfield Township.
2002- 10-14- Statement of benefits of annexation of property included in petition filed by
134   2002   Jennifer A. Brunk and Kyle E. Vonderhaar.
2003- 2-24-  Accepts annexation on application of the owner of certain property located on
21    2003   the north side of Bethany Road, east of Hickory Woods Drive.
2003- 11-10- Statement of services for property to be annexed.
131   2003
2003- 11-10- Buffer requirements for territory proposed to be annexed.
132   2003
2003- 12-8-  Statement of services for property to be annexed.
163   2003
2003- 12-8-  Buffer requirements for territory proposed to be annexed.
164   2003
2004- 3-22-  Accepts annexation on application of the owners of 11.136 acres of certain
46    2004   property located southeast of the intersection of Western Row Road and Snider
             Road, including portions of those roads, to the city.
2004- 6-28-  Accepts annexation on application of the Paramount’s Kings Island, owners of
81    2004   74.523 acres of certain property located in Deerfield Township to the city.
2004- 8-23-  Authorizes pre-annexation agreement with The Falls of Mason, LLC, regarding
111   2004   annexation and the extension of sewer service.
2007- 1-8-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a pre- annexation agreement with
04    2007   Mattie L. and Richard T. Middleton.
2007- 6-18-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an annexation agreement with Union
99    2007   Township for the annexation of 262.967 acres to the city (Falls of Mason,
             LLC).
2007- 11-12- Accepting the application for the annexation of 262.967 acres, more or less,
156   2007   in Union Township, to the city filed under the special procedure of annexing
             land with consent of all parties (R.C. §§ 709.022 et seq.).
             Authorizing the filing of a petition with the Board of County Commissioners to
2007- 11-12- change the Union Township lines of 262.967 acres located in Union Township and
157   2007   the city in order to remove the territory from Union Township, place it in
             Mason Township and make the township lines identical with the limits of the
             city.
2008- 8-11-  Adopting a statement indicating services the city will provide to the 103.606±
93    2008   acre territory proposed to be annexed from Deerfield Township, to the city as
             provided by R.C. § 709.023.
2008- 8-11-  Establishing the buffer requirements for the 103.606± acre territory proposed
94    2008   to be annexed from Deerfield Township to the city upon annexation to the city.
2008- 11-24- Accepting the annexation of 103.606 acres located in Deerfield Township to the
121   2008   city (Great American).
2009- 8-17-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an annexation agreement with
89    2009   Deerfield Township the Boxwood Farms, LLC, for the annexation of 9.7337 acres
             to the city.
2010- 2-8-   Accepting the application for the annexation of 9.7337 acres, more or less, in
16    2010   Deerfield Township.
             Authorizing the filing of a petition with the Board of County Commissioners of
2010- 2-8-   Warren County to change the Deerfield Township lines of 9.7337 acres in order
17    2010   to remove the territory from Deerfield Township, place it in Mason Township
             and make the township lines identical with the limits of the city.
2010- 7-26-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a pre-annexation agreement with
98    2010   Scott and Sonia Kelley.
2015- 1-12-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a pre-annexation agreement with
2     2015   Paul and Amanda Barry.
2015- 4-13-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute annexation petitions for city- owned
44    2015   property.
2015- 9-3-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an annexation agreement with Union
91    2015   Township for the annexation of certain property to the City of Mason.
2016- 1-11-  Accepting annexation of 414.0822 acres, more or less, in Union Township to the
1     2016   city.
2017- 3-20-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an annexation agreement with Union
34    2017   Township for the annexation of certain property to the City of Mason.
2017- 3-20-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an annexation agreement with
35    2017   Deerfield Township for the annexation of certain property to the City of
             Mason.
2017- 6-12-  Accepting the application for the annexation of 5.306 acres, in Union
76    2017   Township, to the City of Mason, filed under the special procedure of annexing
             land with consent of all parties (R.C. § 709.022 et seq.)
             Authorizing the filing of a petition with the Board of County Commissioners of
2017- 6-12-  Warren County, to change the Union Township lines of 5.307 acres located in
77    2017   Union Township and the City of Mason in order to remove the territory from
             Union Township, place it in Mason Township and make the township lines
             identical with the limits of the City of Mason.
2018- 7-9-   Accepting the application for the annexation of 4.7665 acres, more or less, in
83    2018   Deerfield Township, to the City of Mason.
2020- 2-10-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a pre-annexation agreement with Dan
20    2020   Melena of Melena Properties, LLC.
2021- 10-11- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a pre-annexation agreement with
107   2021   Jourdan Hatch and Stephen Schumacher.
2023- 1-9-   Accepting the application for the annexation of 137.419 acres, more or less,
1     2023   in Union Township.
            
 
TABLE I: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
F-1   5-23-  Two parcels, 8.54 and 4.64 acres, part of Olympia Hills Subdivision, from A-
      1960   Residential to C- Residential District.
F-26  5-8-   Marion Keltner property, 87.069 acres as annexed by Ord. F-22, from A-Rural
1/2   1961   Residential to E-Light Industrial District.
      8-28-  E. R. Houston property. 83.612 acres between U.S. Route 42 and C.L. & N.
F-36  1961   Railroad, as annexed by Ord. F-28, from A-Rural Residential to E-Light
             Industrial District.
F-40  9-25-  Willow Dell Builders, Inc. property, 12.35 acres adjacent to Butler-Warren
      1961   County Line Road, from A-Residential to C-Residential District.
      1-28-  Property of R. and M.A. Snider and Peoples Building Loan and Savings Co., Lots
F-84  1963   77 and 82 of Revised Plat of Dec. 1890, from C-Residential to D-Business
             District.
G-48  10-14- Lytle Realty, Inc. property, 5.478 acres, from B- Residential to D-Business
      1963   District.
G-52  12-9-  First Church of God property, 0.23 acres and being part of Lot 175 of revised
      1963   plat of the village, from C-Residential to E-Light Industrial District.
      7-26-  William Koch property, 98.612 acres east of Olympia Fields Subdivision and on
H-27  1965   the northwest side of U.S. Route 42, as annexed by Ord. H-15, from Residential
             to E-Light Industrial District.
13-   4-10-  Parcel of 147.65 acres, being part of Section 25 in Deerfield Township and
1967  1967   bounded in part by U.S. Route 42 and east line of Section 25, from A-
             Residential to F-Industrial District.
22-   4-24-  Lots 305 and 305 on Fifth Avenue, from B- Residential to D-Business District.
1967  1967
43-   11-13- William Walker property on Kings Mills Road from D-Business to C-Residential
1967  1967   District.
6-    4-8-   Mason Construction Co. property, 1.19 acres on Snider Road, from E-Light
1968  1968   Industrial to C- Residential District.
13-   5-13-  Fred and Nethel Emily property on east side of U.S. Route 42 from D-Business
1968  1968   and A-Residential to C-Residential District.
23-   8-26-  William Walker property, 1.240 acres between Section Avenue and Pennsylvania
1968  1968   Railroad, as annexed by Ord. 2-1968, from A-Residential to C- Residential
             District.
             Wallace White property, 70 acres east of State Route 741 and northwest of the
69-   12-20- Pennsylvania Railroad; Albert Barnes property, 20 acres east of State Route
1968  1968   741, northwest of U.S. Route 42 and south of Bethany Road; Nicholas Carter
             property, 33 acres northwest of U.S. Route 42 and divided by Bethany Road; all
             three properties, from A- Residential to E-Light Industrial District.
             Parcel of 91.338 acres, being part of Section 36 in Deerfield Township
6-    3-10-  including territory as annexed by Ord. 75-1968, and parcel of 18.825 acres
1969  1969   between the Pennsylvania Railroad, Tylersville Road and the annexed territory;
             both parcels, from A-Residential to E-Light Industrial District.
             Parcels 11, 12, 84, 45, 87, 88 and 62 between Snider Road, Penn-Central
5-    3-9-   Railroad and north side of Western Row Road and including parcel of 2.37 acres
1970  1970   in the northwest corner of intersection of Snider and Western Row Roads, from
             E-Light Industrial to C-Residential District.
36-   5-25-  Amends Ord. 13-1968, rezoning of the Fred and Nethel Emily property on east
1970  1970   side of U.S. Route 42.
49-   11-9-  G.K. Howard property, 37.85 acres on Kings Mills Road, from A-Residential to
1970  1970   C-Residential District.
27-   6-28-  Parcel of 10.236 acres, part of territory annexed by Ord. 27-1971, north of
1971  1971   Bethany Road and northwest of the Pennsylvania Railroad, is zoned for: I-
             2 Industrial District.
35-   12-13- Parcel of 50.00 acres, being part of Section 5 in Deerfield Township and on
1971  1971   the east side of Butler- Warren Road, from R-1 Residential Suburban to R-
             5 Multi-Family and Single-Family Residential District.
20-   7-10-  All of the city within a triangle bounded by Fifth Avenue, U.S. Route 42 and
1972  1972   the Pennsylvania Railroad from R-5 Multi-Family and Single- Family Residential
             to B-1 Central Business District.
20A-  6-12-  Robert Smith property, 4.434 acres on Cox-Smith Road and Parkside Drive, from
1972  1972   R-5 Multi-Family and Single-Family Residential to B-1 Central Business
             District.
33-   10-9-  Parcel of 12.53 acres and a 40-foot wide parcel, both parcels on south side of
1972  1972   Mason-Kings Mills Road, from R-2 Single-Family Residential to R-4 Multi-Family
             and Single-Family Residential District.
34-   9-25-  Parcel of 2.75 acres north of Western Row Road and part of Section 5 in
1972  1972   Deerfield Township, from R-5 Multi-Family and Single-Family Residential to B-
             3 Road Service District.
38-   10-9-  Lot 258, including Masonic Temple property on northwest corner of Kings Mills
1972  1972   Road and Lebanon Pike, from R-5 Multi-Family and Single- Family Residential to
             B-1 Central Business District.
39-   10-23- Koller, Jeffers and Stroud properties, all being part of Section 5 in
1972  1972   Deerfield Township, from R-1 Residential Suburban to B-3 Road Service
             District.
             Robert Smith property, 5.893 acres between Muddy Creek and U.S. Route 42, from
40-   10-23- R-1 Residential Suburban to B-1 Central Business District. Robert Smith
1972  1972   property, 28.701 acres east of Muddy Creek and west and north of Mason Board
             of Education property, from R-1 Residential Suburban to R-5 Multi-Family and
             Single-Family Residential District.
43-   11-20- Lou Eves property, 2.178 acres on U.S. Route 42, from I-1 Light Industrial to
1972  1972   B-3 Road Service District.
45-   12-11- Parcel of 264.163 acres, being part of Sections 25 and 30 in Deerfield
1972  1972   Township and same as annexed by Ord. 45-1972, is zoned for I-1 Light
             Industrial District.
             Parcels, being parts of Sections 29 and 30, Town 4, Range 2, in Deerfield
13-   2-26-  Township and as described in Exhibit A attached to record copy of Ord. 13-
1973  1973   1973, are zoned for R-3 Single-Family Residential District, except excluding a
             parcel of 7.383 acres, being part of Section 30, Town 4, Range 2, in Deerfield
             Township, which is zoned for B-2 Shopping Center District.
             Parcel of 14.456 acres, on northwest side of U.S. Route 42, from R-
22-   3-12-  1 Residential Suburban to B-2 Shopping Center District. Parcel of 83.781
1973  1973   acres, north and northwest of the aforementioned 14.456 acre tract, from R-
             1 Residential Suburban to R-5 Multi-Family and Single-Family Residential
             District.
59-   7-16-  Fifth Addition of Manhasset Village Subdivision, Section 1, from R-
1973  1973   1 Residential Suburban to R-2 Single-Family Residential District.
9-    4-8-   Parcel of 22.35 acres, being parts of Sections 23 and 24 in the city and lying
1974  1974   400 feet east of easterly terminus of David Lane, from R-3 Single- Family
             Residential to R-4 Multi-Family and Single-Family Residential District.
10-   7-8-   Two parcels of 75.0113 and 76.061 acres each, between Western Row Road and the
1974  1974   Penn-Central Railroad, and as annexed by Ord. 14-1974, are zoned for: I-
             1 Light Industrial District.
13-   4-22-  Parcel of 2.661 acres, being part of Section 5 in the city and abutting the
1974  1974   northwesterly boundary of an existing B-2 Shopping Center District, from R-
             5 Multi-Family and Single-Family Residential to B-2 Shopping Center District.
28-   7-8-   Parcel of 3.710 acres, being part of Section 36, Town 4, Range 2, in Deerfield
1974  1974   Township, from R-1 Residential Suburban to B-3 Road Service District.
47-   10-14- Louam Corp. property, 1.5 acres, from I-1 Light Industrial to B-3 Road Service
1974  1974   District.
7-    3-10-  Taft Broadcasting Co. and/or Kings Island Golf Co. property, 303.20 acres same
1975  1975   as annexed by Ord. 10-1975, from R-1 Residential to R-4 Residential District.
13-   4-14-  R. Smith property, 4.434 acres on north side of Cox-Smith Road, from B-
1975  1975   1 Central Business to B-3 Road Service District.
28-   6-23-  Black Hawk Farms property, 80.579 acres, from R-1 Residential to O-1 Office
1975  1975   Park District.
29-   6-23-  Taft Broadcasting Co. property, 7.178 acres, from R-4 Residential to PUD -
1975  1975   Planned Unit Development.
4-    1-26-  Kings View property, 2.5 acres lying 270 feet north of Kings Mills Road and
1976  1976   adjacent to Kings View Apartments, from R-5 Multi-Family and Single-Family
             Residential to B-3 Road Service District.
25-   3-8-   Parcel of 20.3 acres, lying between U.S. Route 42 and Muddy Creek and abutting
1976  1976   the easterly line of a 7.841 acre parcel owned by the city, from R-
             1 Residential to I-1 Light Industrial District.
47-   6-28-  10.418 acres fronting on Reading Road south of Snider Road from R-1 to B-3.
1976  1976
48-   6-28-  0.287 acres fronting on Snider Road about 1,300 feet east of Reading Road from
1976  1976   R-1 to R-5.
49-   6-28-  0.494 acres fronting on Snider Road about 700 feet east of Reading Road from
1976  1976   R-1 to R-3.
53-   7-26-  8.764 acres fronting on Western Row Road east of Snider Road from R-1 to R-3.
1976  1976
53A-  7-26-  75.575 acres fronting on Western Row Road east of Snider Road from R-1 to R-4.
1976  1976
51-   7-25-  5 acres fronting about 910 feet on west side of Route 741 bypass and bounded
1977  1977   on south by Union Deerfield Township Section Line from R-1 to R-3.
66-   10-24- 2.2665 acres in The Greenery in the vicinity of Clubhouse Drive and Walnut
1977  1977   Lane from R-1 to R-4.
81-   11-28- 31.1 acres adjacent to Winding Creek Estates being part of the Vernice Rae
1977  1977   land from R-1 to R-3.
21-   4-24-  2.290 acres being the Leggett and Platt property from R-1 to R-2.
1978  1978
29-   5-8-   122.482 acres off Western Row Road in Deerfield Township from R-1 to R-4.
1978  1978
75-   8-14-  25.4 acres off Parkside Drive from B-3 to R-4.
1978  1978
110-  10-23- 73 acres from R-1 to R-3 and 18 acres from R-1 to B-2 being the Aulick Farm.
1978  1978
13-   3-26-  73.9 acres adjacent to Winding Creek Estates Subdivision from R-1 Single-
1979  1979   Family to R-3 Single- Family Residential.
45-   5-14-  2.152 acres near intersection of Western Avenue and Williams Street from R-
1979  1979   1 to R-3.
75-   8-13-  Amending the Zoning Map to provide for R-6 Multi-Family Residential Districts.
1979  1979
82-   8-13-  9.5 acres from R-1 to O-1, 13.5 acres from R-1 to R-6 and 50.97 acres from R-
1979  1979   1 to R-5, the acreage located off Tylersville Road, west of Butler- Warren
             Road.
4-    1-14-  64.6 acres from R-1 to R-3, known as the Vernice Rae lands.
1980  1980
8-    3-10-  16.5 acres from R-1 to R-6, 16.1 acres from R-1 to R-6, 16.2 acres from R-1 to
1980  1980   R-3 and 1.5 acres from R-1 to B-2, such acreage located off the Tylersville
             Road Extension.
15-   3-24-  2.465 acres from I-1 to B-3, known as the United Liberty Life Insurance Co.
1980  1980   lands.
34-   5-12-  Approximately five acres from R-5 to R-7 known as part of Olympia Fields Block
1980  1980   1-A replat of part of Block H.
46-   5-27-  Parcels #1, 2 of the Richard H. Ward lands from I-1 to B-3.
1980  1980
             11.20 acres from R-1 to B-3, 17.879 acres from R-1 to R-6, 16.323 from R-1 to
56-   8-11-  R-5, 26.233 from R-1 to B-2, 2.583 acres from R-1 to B-3, 8.539 acres from R-
1980  1980   1 to R-6, 5.004 acres from R-1 to O-1, 6.543 acres from R-1 to R-6 and 13,527
             acres from R-1 to B-3, known as Everybody’s Farm, Inc.
70-   9-8-   525 Mason-Montgomery Road from R-1 to R-2.
1980  1980
103-  1-26-  50.038 acres fronting 1,100 feet on the east side of Mason-Montgomery Road
1980  1981   from I-1 to I-2.
10-   2-23-  7.21 acres on the west side of U.S. Route 42 from B-2 to B-3.
1981  1981
11-   3-9-   3.242 acres on U.S. Route 42 from I-1 to R-7.
1981  1981
30-   5-26-  9.0 acres south of the intersection of U.S. Route 42 and Snider Road from R-
1981  1981   5 to R-7.
45-   7-13-  6.543 acres from R-6 to B-3, known as Everybody’s Farm, Inc.
1981  1981
66-   9-14-  4.015 acres fronting Reading Road from I-1 to B-3.
1981  1981
89-   2-22-  47.4 acres from R-1 to R-3, 36.5 acres from R-1 to R-4, 45.7 acres from R-1 to
1981  1982   R-6 and 11.3 acres from R-1 to R-7, such acreage located at the southeast
             corner of U.S. Route 42 and State Route 741 By-pass.
59-   9-13-  9.9 acres from O-1 to R-6 and 12.3 acres from R-5 to R-6, such acreage located
1982  1982   at Tylersville Road and Fireside Drive.
80-   11-8-  4.24 acres fronting on the northwest side of U.S. Route 42 from I-1 to B-3.
1982  1982
95-   1-10-  18.42 acres at the southwest corner of U.S. Route 42 and Four Seasons Drive
1982  1983   from R-6 to R-7.
96-   1-10-  13.22 acres on the east side of Snider Road from R-6 to R-7.
1982  1983
6-    2-14-  4.644 acres fronting 1262.75 feet on the northwest side of Kings Mills Road at
1983  1983   Fairway Drive from R-1 to R-2 and B-2.
35-   5-9-   Klekamp property being 72.5 acres northwest of intersection of Tylersville
1983  1983   Road and U.S. Route 42 from R-3 to R-4.
56-   7-11-  2.662 acres at Reading and Snider Roads from R-7 to B-3.
1983  1983
102-  11-14- 0.448 acres at Williams and W. Main Streets from R-1 to R-5.
1983  1983
47-   7-9-   0.82 acres on northside of Western Row Road 600 feet east of U.S. Route 42 and
1984  1984   0.625 acres on northside of Western Row Road 700 feet east of U.S. Route 42
             from R-1 to B-3.
71-   9-24-  363 acres north and south of Kings Mills Road, extending easterly to
1984  1984   Interstate 71 from R-1, approximately 320 acres to B-3 and 43 acres to R-6.
72-   9-10-  107.917 acres fronting 1,759.41 feet on Mason- Montgomery Road from R-1 to I-
1984  1984   1.
7-    3-11-  Ruth Chesney property being 12+ acres on Mason-Montgomery Road from R-1 to R-
1985  1985   2 (5.233 acres) and R-4 (6.77) acres.
34-   7-8-   Woodshed property being 0.46 acres fronting on U.S. Route 42 southwest of
1985  1985   Fifth Street from B-3 to B-1.
35-   7-8-   Geier property being 225 feet southeast of U.S. Route 42 and Snider Road from
1985  1985   R-7 to B-3.
51-   8-12-  Schappacher property being 63.8 acres fronting on north side of U.S. Route 42
1985  1985   from I-1 to R-1.
86-16 4-14-  3.386 acres of Ledky Co. and Bonham lands at southwest corner of U.S. Route 42
      1986   and Western Row Road from R-1 to B-3.
86-22 3-24-  3.469 acres owned by Robert Taylor on northwest corner of Tylersville and
      1986   Mason-Montgomery Roads from R-3 to O-1.
86-43 6-9-   257+ acres bounded by Western Row Road, I-71 and Socialville-Foster Road from
      1986   R-1 to I-1.
86-   2-9-   27.6 acres on east side of Mason-Montgomery Road, 2,700 feet south of Western
112   1987   Row Road from R-1 to R-6B.
86-   2-9-   141.5 acres of Rishon Enterprises lands 900 feet north on Cox-Smith Road on
113   1987   east side of State Route 741 from R-1 to R-2 (48 acres), R-6B (37.8 acres) and
             B-3 (5.7 acres).
86-   2-9-   159 acres of Gregory lands on south side of Western Row Road, 2,400 feet east
114   1987   of Mason- Montgomery Road from R-4 to R-6B (59.6 acres) and I-1 (99.4 acres).
86-   1-12-  1.332 acres fronting 141.90 feet on U.S. Route 42, west side, 200 feet north
122   1987   of Castle Drive from R-1 to B-3.
87-7  6-8-   Rezoning 10,890 square feet owned by Smith at 310 Cox Street from R-5 to I-
      1987   1 subject to termination if ownership terminates.
87-14 3-23-  1.677 acres at 1245 U.S. Route 42 from R-1 to B-3.
      1987
87-21 4-27-  47.6 acres of Saal and Hiltz lands between U.S. Route 42 and Snider Road from
      1987   R-1 to I-1 (39.0 acres) and B-3 (8.6 acres).
87-46 6-8-   57.854 acres of Mason Lakewood Farms located on southeast side of Mason-
      1987   Montgomery Road and Bethany Road from I-1 to I-2.
87-49 6-22-  Rezoning 2.457 acres of Moore property at southwest corner of State Route 741
      1987   and U.S. Route 42 from R-1 to B-3.
87-60 7-13-  Land located on south side of State Route 141 between 1-71 and Kings Mills
      1987   Road from B-3 (58 acres) and R-6 (50 acres) to HT-1.
87-   11-23- 4.00 acres being the rear portion of parcel owned by F. C. & D. Investments
130   1987   located 400 feet north of U.S. Route 42 and 150 feet south of Tylersville Road
             from R-1 to B-3.
87-   11-23- 0.287 acres owned by Ginger Nixon located at southwest corner of W. Main
131   1987   Street and Williams Avenue from R-5 to R-7.
87-   11-23- 23 acres on SW corner of Penn Central Railroad and Tylersville Road from R-
133   1987   6 to PUD.
88-8  2-8-   1.631 acres owned by Richard Ambrose located adjacent to U.S. Route 42 and 400
      1988   feet north of Four Seasons Drive from R-1 to R-7.
      4-11-  Trailside Acres owned by Paul Heiman located on east side of State Route 741,
88-35 1988   1,150 feet north of Cox Smith Road from R-1 (50.0 acres) and R-6 (37.8 acres)
             to R-2.
88-91 8-8-   128.78 acres owned by William and Venetta Varnau located on southwest corner
      1988   of Western Row Road and Snider Road from R-1 to HT-1.
88-   9-12-  0.800 acres owned by Al Federle, Robert Newsock and George Shaw located on
104   1988   southwest corner of Tylersville Road and U.S. Route 42 from R-6 to B-3.
88-   12-12- 2.06 acres on northwest corner of State Route 741 and Parkside Drive owned by
142   1988   H.H. & A., Inc., from R-6 to B-3.
88-   1-9-   5.167 acres on southeast corner of Western Row Road and U.S. Route 42 owned by
155   1989   Larry Couchot from 1-1 to B-3.
89-7  2-13-  3.2364 acres on southeast corner of State Route 741 and Bethany Road owned by
      1989   Stearns and Foster Co., from I-2 to I-1.
89-18 3-13-  0.288 acres on Cambridge Drive owned by Theodore P. Honerlaw from R-5 to R-7.
      1989
89-19 3-13-  Land located on west side of Mason-Montgomery Road owned by Katherine U.
      1989   Disney from R-1 (36.917 acres) and R-2 (4.659 acres) to R-3.
89-37 4-24-  50 acres located east of I-71 on Columbia Road owned by Miller Valentine Group
      1989   from R-1 to Hi- Tech and B-2.
89-41 6-26-  66.8 acres located between Mason-Hamilton Road and Mason-Montgomery Road from
      1989   R-1 and I-2 to PUD.
89-68 6-12-  60.522 acres owned by Tower Associates on west side of Mason-Montgomery Road
      1989   from I-1 to I-2.
89-94 8-14-  32.10 acres owned by Ashley Ward fronting on Castle Drive from I-1 to HT-1.
      1989
89-95 8-14-  1.598 acres owned by Clair L. Smith being Lot 133, located east of Mason-
      1989   Montgomery Road and north of E. Main Street from R-5 to B-1.
89-98 8-28-  75.029 acres owned by Cintas Corp. fronting on Western Row Road from R-1 to
      1989   HT-1.
89-   9-11-  6.055 acres owned by William G. Thornton, Sr. fronting on U.S. Route 42 from
106   1989   R-1 to B-3.
89-   9-11-  6.157 acres from R-6 and R-1 to R-3 and 10.511 acres from R-3 to R-5, owned by
107   1989   FNS Investments, fronting on Tylersville Road extension.
89-   12-11- 81.44317 acres owned by Durrell and Hunt fronting on east side of Mason-
151   1989   Montgomery Road between Stitt Road and Western Row Road from R-1 to R-3.
90-28 4-9-   3.134 acres owned by McGill and Mastalski at northwest corner of State Route
      1990   741 and Bethany Road from R-1 to I-1.
90-52 5-14-  60.582 acres owned by Hemmer and Associates on Mason-Montgomery Road from I-
      1990   2 to I-1.
90-87 9-10-  7.348 acres located on northeast corner of Tylersville Road and Butler-Warren
      1990   Road from R-1 to O-1.
90-   9-24-  4.7 acres located on east side of Kings Mills Road, 325 feet from State Route
101   1990   741 and Parkside Drive intersection, from B-3 to HT-1.
90-   10-2-  2.95 acres located on west side of U.S. Route 42 between intersections of
102   1990   Western Row and Butler- Warren Roads from R-1 to B-3.
90-   10-8-  3.20 acres located on west side of U.S. Route 42 between intersections of
103   1990   Western Row and Butler- Warren Roads from R-1 to B-3.
90-   11-12- .779 acres located on Kings Mills Road one-fourth mile from U.S. Route 42
128   1990   intersection from R-2 to B-1.
90-   12-10- 7.4 acres located on east side of Mason- Montgomery Road across from Bilvern
139   1990   Products and south of Deerfield Manufacturing from I-2 to B-3.
91-27 4-8-   .937 acres on Mason-Morrow-Millgrove Road from R-1 to B-3.
      1991
91-28 4-8-   4.7 acres on Mason-Montgomery Road from R-1 to R-3.
      1991
91-73 8-12-  102 acres at 661 Mason-Montgomery Road from R-1 to R-3.
      1991
91-84 9-9-   98.1 acres from R-1 to R-3 and 41.4 acres from R-1 to R-4 along Mason Road
      1991   south and west of Grace Baptist Church.
92-24 4-13-  2.78 acres from R-2 to R-3 and 8.0 acres from R-2 to R-4 at north dead end of
      1992   Indianwood Boulevard.
92-68 8-10-  1.58 acres on Carnel Place from R-1 to R-5.
      1992
92-73 8-24-  163.445 acres northwest of Stitt and Western Row Roads intersection from R-
      1992   1 to PUD.
92-   12-14- 33.27 acres along Stitt Road from R-1 to R-3.
127   1992
92-   12-14- 9.742 acres from R-1 to B-3 and 7.205 acres from R-1 to R-2 along State Route
128   1992   741.
92-   1-11-  2.37 acres at northwest corner of Snider and Western Row Roads intersection
133   1993   from R-5 to R-7.
      3-22-  Rezoning 20.55 acres from I-1 to R-3, 38.46 acres from I-1 to R-4 and 18.19
93-12 1993   acres from I-1 to R-6, all located at end of Enterprise Drive with about 350
             feet of frontage on Ventura Boulevard.
93-44 6-14-  4.78 acres owned by Regal Quad, Inc. on east side of U.S. Route 42 south of
      1993   Fifth Avenue with about 244 feet of frontage on U.S. Route 42 from R-1 to B-3.
93-87 8-23-  51.211 acres owned by Al Neyer, Inc. and Stephenson at northeast corner of
      1993   Western Row and Stitt Roads.
93-   11-8-  4.25 acres owned by Brookshire Village Properties located on west side of
117   1993   Mason-Montgomery Road along entrance to Crooked Tree Golf Course: 2.48 acres
             from B-2 to R-4; 1.77 acres from O-1 to R-4.
93-   11-8-  6.11 acres owned by Rishon Enterprises located on east side of State Route 741
118   1993   south of Appaloosa Trail from B-3 to R-2.
93-   1-10-  54.9589 acres from R-1 to R-3, 35.1431 acres from R-1 to R-4, 23.2343 acres
136   1994   from R-1 to R-5, 5.0676 acres from R-1 to B-2 and 22.7654 acres from R-1 to
             HT-1 at northeast corner of Mason- Montgomery and Socialville Foster Roads.
93-   1-10-  20.873 acres from B-3 to HT-1 and 3.326 acres from HT-1 to B-3 in Kings Mill
146   1994   Center Business Park at southwest corner of State Route 741 and Courseview
             Drive.
94-13 5-9-   32.557 acres (Jewish Home of Cincinnati) on west side of Mason-Montgomery Road
      1994   about 1,100 feet north of Socialville-Foster Road from O-1 to PUD.
94-35 4-11-  Ball property (12 acres) on east side of Butler- Warren Road south of
      1994   Tylersville Road from R-1 to R-5.
94-43 5-23-  Eves property (3.469 acres) on east side of State Route 741 south of U.S.
      1994   Route 42 from R-2 to B-3.
94-44 5-9-   Weitzel property (1.2 acres) on south side of Tylersville Road west of U.S.
      1994   Route 42 from R-2 to B-3.
94-66 10-10- 175.54 acres on north side of Tylersville Road, west of U.S. Route 42, from R-
      1994   1 to R-2, R-3 and R-4.
94-77 8-22-  7.0 acres on Castle Drive from I-1 to HT-1.
      1994
95-16 3-13-  380.1 acres on Mason Road east of Butler-Warren Road from R-1 to R-2.
      1995
95-17 3-13-  10.877 acres on Route 42 south of State Route 741 from I-2 to HT-1.
      1995
95-47 6-12-  19.365 acres on west side of Mason-Montgomery Road 1,100 feet south of Bethany
      1995   Road from R-1 to R-3.
      7-10-  187.40 acres from R-1 to PUD, 3.5 acres from R-1 to R-5 and 25.7 acres from R-
95-49 1995   1 to R-6C, located on north side of Stitt Road, 2,680 feet east of Mason-
             Montgomery Road.
96-34 3-11-  Rezoning White Blossom Plaza (9.1684 acres) located on northeast corner of
      1996   Socialville Foster Road and Mason-Montgomery Road from B-2 and HT-1 to PUD.
96-43 4-8-   Rezoning Hickory Woods (86.882 acres) located north of Mason Road and Sarah
      1996   Drive from R-1 to PUD.
96-52 5-13-  Rezoning 7.35 acres on NE corner of Tylersville Road and Butler-Warren Road
      1996   from O-1 to PUD.
96-64 6-10-  259 acres owned by Procter and Gamble located on east side of Mason-Montgomery
      1996   Road and the south side of Socialville-Fosters Road from R-1 to HT-1.
96-   8-12-  2.73 acres owned by Beverly Plott located on east side of U.S. Route 42 about
100   1996   275 feet south of Snider Road from R-1 to B-3.
96-   8-12-  1.65 acres owned by Kingsway Community Church, Inc. with about 100 feet of
101   1996   frontage on east side of Cox-Smith Road at the S curve, east of State Route
             741, from B-3 to R-1.
96-   11-11- 3.5 acres owned by The Mason Joint Venture, P.L.L., with about 420 feet on
146   1996   frontage on north side of Stitt Road located about 1800 feet east of Fairway
             Drive from R-5 to R-6C.
96-   12-9-  11.4 acres on east side of Mason-Montgomery Road about 2,300 feet south of
163   1996   Western-Row Road from R-1 to PUD.
96-   3-10-  175.5 acres on north side of Tylersville Road: 125.3 acres zoned PUD; 22.2
165   1997   acres zoned R-2; 20 acres zoned R-3; eight acres zoned R-4.
96-   1-13-  5.86 acres on west side of U.S. Route 42 about 99 feet north of Donna Jean
174   1997   Boulevard from R-1 to B-3.
97-23 3-10-  146 acres on south side of Bethany Road about 2,700 feet west of Mason-
      1997   Montgomery Road from R-1 to PUD.
97-39 4-14-  180.4872 acres on west side of State Route 741 just north of Bethany Road from
      1997   R-1 to I-1.
97-68 6-9-   79.183 acres on west side of Mason-Montgomery Road, north of Socialville-
      1997   Fosters Road (Luttrell property) from R-1 to I-1 District.
97-69 6-9-   11.9628 acres on south side of Bethany Road from I-2 to I-1 District
      1997   (Monumental Properties, Inc.)
97-71 6-9-   31.574 acres on north side of Tylersville Road (WLW property) from R-4 to PUD
      1997   District.
97-87 8-11-  129.915 acres on north side of Bethany Road from R-1 to PUD District (Coleman
      1997   property).
97-99 9-22-  .67 acres at 954 Snider Road from R-5 to R-6B District (Geier property).
      1997
97-   9-8-   51.32 acres on south side of Mason Road from R-1 to PUD District (Sunset
101   1997   Ridge).
97-   10-13- 9.94 acres southeast of Mason Christian Village from R-1 to PUD District
112   1997   (expansion of Mason Christian Village).
97-   10-13- 48.4 acres from R-1 to PUD District and 33.47 acres from R-1 to HT-1 District,
116   1997   for Renner property on NW corner of Western Row and Stitt Roads.
97-   1-12-  40 acres from R-3 to PUD District and 55.9 acres from R-3 to HT-1 District for
153   1998   Small Brothers Partnership property on northwest corner of Mason-Montgomery
             Road and Cedar Village Drive.
98-19 3-9-   Lots 17-20 (6.3 acres) on north side of Castle Drive in Castle Park
      1998   Subdivision from HT-1 to I-1 District (A.F. Ward, owner).
98-36 4-13-  9.24 acres on northeast corner of Columbia Road and Catalina Isle from R-1 to
      1998   R-6 District (Schneider property).
98-45 5-11-  3.35 acres from PUD to O-1 District and 2.75 acres from O-1 to PUD District on
      1998   south side of Cedar Village Drive (Cedar Village Home)
98-70 6-22-  1.1 acres on northwest corner of State Route 741 and Bethany Road from I-1 to
      1998   B-3 District (Benson property).
98-76 7-13-  129.9 acres from R-1 to PUD District on south side of Bethany Road (Melampy
      1998   property).
98-   11-9-  38.4 acres on south side of Bethany Road from PUD to R-1 District (Melampy
143   1998   property).
98-   1-11-  11.32 acres from B-3 to HT District and 9.77 acres from HT to B-3 District in
186   1999   Kings Mill Business Center (Neyer property).
99-26 3-8-   56.4 acres on south side of Mason Road across from Maxwell Drive from R-1 to
      1999   PUD District (Muennich property).
99-28 3-8-   25.7 acres on west side of Mason-Montgomery Road, south of Western Row Road
      1999   from R-1 to PUD District (Mason Church of Christ).
99-47 4-12-  665 acres on east side of Kings Island Drive, south of Kings Mills Road from
      1999   R-1 to B-4 District (Kings Island).
99-48 4-12-  All R-5 Single-Family zoning in city rezoned as R-4 Single-Family zoning.
      1999
99-77 6-28-  9.67 acres on the northeast corner of the intersection of State Route 741 and
      1999   Bethany Road from R-1 to I-1.
99-78 6-28-  65.28 acres on the northwest side of U.S. Route 42, north of Mason-Morrow-
      1999   Millgrove Road, south of Bunnell Road from R-1 to I-1.
99-   10-11- 10.2 acres on the east side of Mason-Montgomery Road, north of Cedar Village
131   1999   Drive from R-6 to PUD.
2000- 4-10-  The Cowan Subdivision, Lots 4 through 12 from R-6 to R-7.
27    2000
2000- 4-10-  7.0 acres on the north side of Castle Park Drive from HT-1 to I-1.
28    2000
2000- 10-9-  26.787 acres on the southeast corner of the Oaks of Crooked Tree Subdivision
128   2000   from R-6 to R-4.
2000- 10-9-  28 acres in the northeast corner of the intersection of Columbia Road and
129   2000   Catalina Isle from R-1 to Commercial PUD.
2000- 1-8-   4.102 acres on the southwest corner of Easy Street and Castle Drive from HT-
180   2001   1 and I-1.
2001- 5-14-  .2277 acre at 309 South Forest Avenue from R-4 to R-6.
93    2001
2001- 7-23-  8.3 acres in Lot 10 of Tri-Way Industrial Park from I-1 to Industrial PUD.
95    2001
2002- 2-11-  22.5 acres of the Araujo property from R-1 to Residential PUD.
05    2002
2002- 6-8-   24 acres of St. Susanna’s Education and Worship Center property from R-1, R-
87    2002   4 and B-3 to B-1 Central Business District PUD.
2003- 10-6-  22.685 acres of the Wall 2 Wall Sports property from B-3 to B-3 Office/
105   2003   Commercial PUD.
2003- 12-24- 88.7 acres of the Tennis for Charity property from R-6 to Office/Commercial
138   2003   PUD.
2003- 11-24- 18.66 acres of the Klekamp property from B-2 and B-1 to Business PUD.
139   2003
2004- 3-22-  Approximately 3.869 acres located at 4753 Socialville-Foster Road from R-1 to
24    2004   HT-1.
2004- 6-14-  Approximately 9.68 acres from R-4 to Residential PUD and approves the concept
67    2004   planned unit development plan for the Sword Deaf Baptist Church property.
2004- 8-9-   Approximately 0.09 acres located at 109 North East Street from R-4 to B-1.
93    2004
2004- 8-9-   Approximately 0.125 acres located at 201 West Church Street from R-4 to B-1.
94    2004
2004- 8-9-   Approximately 8.54 acres from R-6 to Business PUD and 2.58 acres from B-3 to
95    2004   Business PUD located at the southeast corner of the Snider Road extension and
             Tylersville Road.
2004- 8-9-   Approximately 6.5 acres located at 4291 State Route 741 from I-2 to Business
96    2004   PUD.
             Approximately 8.42 acres from R-1 to Business PUD; 156.72 acres from B-3 to
2004- 10-25- Business PUD; and 43.855 acres from HT-1 to Business PUD and approval of the
113   2004   concept planned unit development plan for a mixed-use office and retail
             development, including a lifestyle center (City Park) and shopping center
             (Park Center).
2004- 1-10-  Approximately 46.7 acres from R-1 to B-4 PUD and approval of the Concept
121   2005   Planned Unit Development Plan for property referred to as the Great Wolf Lodge
             Resort and Conference Center property.
2005- 2-28-  Approximately 6.247 acres located west of Tylersville Road abutting Luxottica
02    2005   Place from B- PUD to HT-1.
2005- 3-14-  Approximately 31.043 acres located at 6030 Mason Road from R-1 to R-2.
09    2005
             Approximately 1.577 acres from R-1 to Business PUD; 1.544 acres from HT-1 to
2005- 9-29-  Business PUD with approval of the concept planned unit development plan for
69    2005   White Blossom PUD expansion (Walgreen’s); and to provide for the rezoning of
             approximately 1.688 acres from R-1 to HT-1.
2005- 7-25-  Approximately 20.857 acres located in the 5800 block of Columbia Road north of
84    2005   Paramount King’s Island from R-1 to B-4 (Paramount King’s Island property).
2005- 8-8-   Approximately 27.8197 acres located north and east of the existing Cintas
85    2005   facilities at 6800 Cintas Boulevard from R-6 to HT-1 (Cintas property).
2005- 9-26-  Approximately 5.5 acres located at 228 North Mason-Montgomery Road from R-1 to
104   2005   R-4 (Cowan property).
2005- 11-28- Approximately 7.8 acres located at 3920 U.S. Route 42 from R-1 to I-1 and
119   2005   approximately 1.68 acres located at 3960 U.S. Route 42 from B-3 to I-1 (City
             of Mason property).
             Approximately 24.5 acres from R-6 to Industrial PUD and approximately 77.9
2005- 11-28- acres from I-1 to Industrial PUD with approval of the concept planned unit
134   2005   development plan located south of Western Row Road and east of the Oakwood
             Lakes Subdivision (Health Alliance).
2005- 11-28- Approximately 12.1 acres and approximately 5.5 acres located on the south side
135   2005   of Western Row Road at the Cintas Boulevard and Western Row Road intersection
             from I-1 to HT-1 (Duke/HBA property).
2005- 1-9-   Approximately 5.48 acres located south of Luxottica Place west of Tylersville
175   2006   Road and north of Western Row Road from B-PUD to HT-1 (Lenscrafters property).
2005- 1-9-   Approximately 6.71 acres located at the east end of Sunny Drive in the Tyler
176   2006   Station Subdivision in Mason and also located west of the Rosemont South
             Subdivision in Deerfield Township from R-1 to R-3 (Rhein Interests).
2006- 2-23-  Rezoning approximately 2.16 acres located at 7607 Easy Street (Lot 6) in the
10    2006   Castle Park Industrial Subdivision from HT-1 to I-1 (LSW #2 Property).
2006- 5-8-   Rezoning approximately 28.5 acres from HT-1 to Industrial PUD with approval of
37    2006   the concept planned unit development plan located at the west end of Commerce
             Court (Prasco).
2006- 5-22-  Approval of a revised concept planned unit development plan located between
53    2006   State Route 741 and Cox-Smith Road (Glimcher).
             Rezoning approximately 9.1 acres from B-PUD to O-1 (People’s Community Bank
             Property) , 55.7 acres from B-PUD to B-3 (Sports Express LTD, J.G. Hancock
2006- 6-26-  Limited and Kings Mills Farms Property) and 9.2 acres from B-PUD to HT-1
60    2006   (Seeideas and Courseview Partners Property) all located on the north and south
             sides of State Route 741 generally bound by Cox-Smith Road, Courseview Drive
             and Beach Boulevard (State Route 741 property).
2006- 7-24-  Rezoning approximately 0.72 acres located at 201, 203, 205 and 207 East Main
75    2006   Street from R-4 and Downtown Overlay District.
             Rezoning approximately 0.40 acres located at 209 and 211 East Main Street from
2006- 9-25-  R-4 to R-4 and Downtown Overlay District and to amend the design guidelines
96    2006   handbook to add the properties to the Downtown Overlay District (Pinson-
             Wittman Property).
             Rezoning approximately 1.86 acres located at 208, 210, 212, 300, 302, and 304
2006- 11-13- East Main Street from R-4 to R-4 and Downtown Overlay District and to amend
131   2006   the design guidelines handbook to add the properties to the Downtown Overlay
             District (Main Street Property).
2006- 11-13- Rezoning approximately 31 acres from B-PUD to B-3 and approximately 34 acres
132   2006   from B-PUD to HT-1 located between State Route 741 and Courseview Drive
             (Neyer/Kennedy Property).
2006- 1-8-   Rezoning approximately 6.25 acres from R-1 Single-Family Residential to
162   2007   Industrial PUD with Approval of the concept planned unit development plan
             located at 1110 and 1170 Western Row Road (Lichtenberg).
2007- 9-24-  Rezoning of approximately 10.86 acres located on the east side of Columbia
130   2007   Road, directly across from Mcclelland Avenue from B-4 to R-1 (Kings School
             property).
2007- 11-12- Rezoning of approximately 166.8 acres to R-PUD (Pebble Brook).
138   2007
2007- 11-12- Rezoning of approximately 97.1 acres to R-PUD (Reserves of Carmelle).
139   2007
             Rezoning of approximately 45 acres from R-1 Single-family Residential to R-PUD
2007- 12-17- residential PUD with approval of the concept planned unit development plan
154   2007   located at the northeast corner of Tylersville Road and Mason-Montgomery Road
             (Mason City Schools).
             Rezoning of approximately 76 acres from R-1 Single-family Residential and R-
2007- 12-17- 2 Single-family Residential to R-PUD residential PUD with approval of the
155   2007   concept planned unit development plan located at the southeast corner of
             Mason-Montgomery Road and Foxfield Drive (City of Mason).
             Rezoning of approximately 7.75 acres from R-2 Single-family Residential to
2008- 2-25-  Industrial PUD with approval of the concept planned unit development plan
04    2008   located around 7392 Mason-Montgomery Road, east of the Manor House (Manor
             House).
             Rezoning of approximately 1.25 acres from R-4 and B-1 to R-4 DO (Downtown
             Overlay) and B-1 DO (Downtown Overlay) located at: 104 and 106 North Forest
2008- 2-25-  Avenue; 305, 309, and 311 Church Street; and a property on the north side of
05    2008   Church Street between the railroad tracks and 304 Church Street and to amend
             the design guidelines handbook to add these properties to the Downtown Overlay
             District (downtown property).
2008- 4-21-  Rezoning of approximately 8.31 acres located at 6175 Hi-Tek Court from I-PUD
32    2008   TO I-1 (Skilled Care Pharmacy property).
             Rezoning of approximately 9.7 acres from Deerfield Township to B-3 Road
2008- 11-24- Service Commercial and approximately 31.5 acres from Deerfield Township to
112   2008   Business Planned Unit Development with approval of the concept planned unit
             development plan located south of Kings Mills Road along the east and west
             side of Kings Island Drive (Great American).
2008- 12-15- Rezoning of approximately 8.927 acres located on the east side of 7160
118   2008   Industrial Row Drive from HT-1 TO I-1 (Loveland Pet Products property).
2008- 11-24- Accepting the public roadway improvements for Avalon Farms Subdivision.
123   2008
             Rezoning of approximately 1.5 acres from R-6 Condominium and Landominium and
2009- 5-18-  approximately 8.7 acres from HT-1, High Tech Light Industrial to Business
27    2009   Planned Unit Development with approval of a revised concept planned unit
             development plan located in the area between Courseview Drive, I-71 and Sports
             Center Complex Drive (Tennis Center).
2009- 7-13-  Rezoning of approximately 5.5 acres from R-4 single-family residential to R-
53    2009   PUD Residential Planned Unit Development with approval of the concept plan
             unit development plan located at 228 Mason-Montgomery Road (Greenland Park.)
2009- 12-15- Rezoning of approximately 2.55 acres located at 7561 and 7589 Easy Street from
143   2009   HT-1 to I-1 (Easy Street Properties).
2010- 2-8-   Rezoning of approximately 9.73 acres located at 5856 Mason Road from Deerfield
1     2010   Township R-SF to City of Mason R-2 (Boxwood Farms).
             Rezoning of approximately 13.21 acres from B-3 Road Service Commercial to
2010- 4-26-  Business Planned Unit Development and approximately 4 acres from R-2 Single-
31    2010   Family Residential to Business Planned Unit Development with the approval of
             the concept planned unit development plan located on the east side of S.R. 741
             between Carmelle Woods Drive and U.S. Route 42 (Eves property).
             Rezoning approximately 1.4 acres from HT-1 High-tech Light Industrial to
2010- 4-26-  Business Planned Unit Development with approval of the concept planned unit
32    2010   development plan located on the south side of 8060 Mason Montgomery Road (Tide
             Dry Cleaners property).
2010- 9-13-  Rezoning approximately 9.986 acres located on the south side of Bethany Road,
99    2010   east of the Parkside Subdivision from R-1 to R-2 (Reserves of Bethany).
             Rezoning approximately 2.99 acres from R-6 to Business PUD and approximately
2011- 3-28-  6.44 acres from B-2 to Business PUD with approval of the Concept Planned Unit
14    2011   Development Plan located at the southwest corner of Tylersville Road and
             Snider Road (Everybody’s Farm - Phase I).
2011- 5-9-   Rezoning approximately 0.44 acres located at 135 North Mason-Montgomery Road
37    2011   from R-4 to B-1 (former fire station property).
2011- 7-11-  Rezoning approximately 0.64 acres bounded by Second Avenue, Forest Avenue and
52    2011   Ruth Chesney Way from R-4 to B-1 DO (Downtown Overlay) and to add these
             properties to the Downtown Overlay District (Second Avenue property).
2011- 9-12-  Rezoning approximately 5.171 acres located at 4503 North Route 42 from I-1 to
70    2011   B-3 (4503 North Route 42 property).
             Rezoning approximately 122.68 acres from R-2 to Mixed Use Planned Unit
2013- 2-11-  Development with approval of the concept Planned Unit Development plan
1     2013   generally located south and east of the intersection of Western Row Road and
             Mason-Montgomery Road as well as 7076 Mason-Montgomery Road and 4649 Western
             Row Road (Alverta).
2013- 3-11-  Rezoning approximately 4.6 acres from B-3 and O-1, to Business Planned Unit
19    2013   Development with approval of the concept Planned Unit Development plan located
             on Lot 2 of Snider Station (Artis Senior Living).
2013- 3-18-  Rezoning approximately 45.3 acres from HT-1 and B-2 to I-1 (Columbia Road
29    2013   Property).
2013- 9-9-   Rezoning approximately 3.66 acres from R-1 to Residential Planned Unit
68    2013   Development with approval of the concept Planned Unit Development plan located
             at the west end of Evergreen Court (Rosemont Manor Addition).
             Rezoning approximately 17.57 acres from HT-1 to Industrial Planned Unit
2013- 12-9-  Development with approval of the concept Planned Unit Development plan located
88    2013   on the west side of Central Parke Boulevard north of 7547 Central Parke
             Boulevard (Fountains of Mason).
2014- 2-10-  Rezoning approximately 5.897 acres of land located at 5188 Cox-Smith Road from
1     2014   R-1 to O-1 (5188 Cox-Smith Road Property).
2014- 9-22-  Rezoning approximately 0.6 acres from R-1 to R-4 (608 Church Street).
64    2014
             Rezoning approximately 31.3 acres from B-2 and R-6 to Business Planned Unit
2014- 9-22-  Development with approval of the concept Planned Unit Development plan located
65    2014   on the south side of Tylersville Road west of Radio Way (Everybody’s Farm
             Phase II).
2014- 11-10- Rezoning approximately 1.1 acres located 80 feet north of the intersection of
83    2014   Church Street and Mason Road from R-1 to R-4 (Mason Road Property).
2014- 11-10- Rezoning approximately 0.74 acres located at 613 Reading Road from B-1 to B-3
84    2014   (613 Reading Road).
2014- 11-10- Rezoning approximately 1.27 acres located at 7539 Easy Street from HT-1 to I-
85    2014   1 (7539 Easy Street).
2015- 2-9-   Rezoning approximately 34.3 acres from O-1 to R-3 (a portion of the former
1     2015   Crooked Tree Golf Course, near the intersection of Sentinel Oak Drive and
             Bentley Oak Drive).
2015- 1-11-  Rezoning approximately 224 acres from R-1 (Union Township) to R-PUD with
129   2016   approval of the concept Planned Unit Development plan located at 3758 Route 42
             (Ambleside Meadows Subdivision).
             Rezoning approximately 65 acres from I-1 Industrial and HT-1 High Tech Light
2016- 9-12-  Industrial to MXD-PUD Mixed-Use Planned Unit Development with approval of the
91    2016   concept planned unit development plan located at the intersection of
             Innovation Way and Western Row Road (Oakpark).
2016- 10-10- Rezoning approximately 3 acres from R-1 Single Family Residential to R-
102   2016   3 Single Family Residential at 6675 Evergreen Court (Araujo Property).
             Rezoning approximately 6.78 acres from B-3 Road Service Commercial to B-PUD
2016- 12-12- Business Planned Unit Development with approval of the concept planned unit
119   2016   development plan located on the north side of Cox-Smith Road, east of S.R. 741
             (Spectrum).
             Rezoning approximately 36.5 acres from R-1 Residential and B-3 Road Service
2017- 6-12-  Commercial to R-2 Single Family Residential and R-PUD Residential Planned Unit
65    2017   Development with approval of the concept planned unit development plan located
             north and west of Beach Boulevard, east of the Mason Grand Subdivision.
2018- 2-12-  Rezoning approximately 10.88 acres from I-1 Light Industrial to I- PUD
1     2018   Industrial Planned Unit Development located on Castle Drive, adjacent to 1224
             Castle Drive (Khan Noor Subdivision).
2018- 4-9-   Rezoning approximately 0.35 acres from R-4 Single Family Residential to R-4DO
31    2018   Single Family Residential Downtown Overlay located at 300 and 304 West Church
             Street.
2018- 6-11-  Rezoning approximately 3.7 acres from R-4 Single Family Residential to R-PUD
62    2018   Residential Planned Unit Development located at 6958 Butler Warren Road and
             1480 Western Row Road (Bedi Cottages).
2018- 10-8-  Rezoning approximately 4.77 acres from Deerfield R-SF Residential Single
101   2018   Family to Mason R-4 Single Family Residential located at 5958 Bethany Road
             (Crooked Tree Preserves Bethany Road).
2018- 1-14-  Rezoning approximately 3.19 acres from B-3 Road Service Commercial to B-PUD
136   2019   Business Planned Unit Development located adjacent to 6391 Reading Road
             (Brightstar PUD).
             Rezoning of approximately 8.5 acres from B-3 Road Service Commercial to B-PUD
2019- 2-11-  Business Planned Unit Development with approval of the Concept Planned Unit
1     2019   Development Plan located adjacent at 5579 S.R. 741 and behind 5571 S.R. 741
             (741 PUD).
2019- 7-8-   Rezoning approximately 187.6 acres from Warren County I-1 Light Industrial
68    2019   Manufacturing to Mason I-1 Light Industrial located south of Bunnell Road,
             west of US 42 and east of Avalon Farms (Mason R&D Park East).
2019- 7-8-   Rezoning approximately 2.7 acres from B-3 Road Service Commercial to R-
69    2019   6 Condominium and Landominium Residential located west of 5525 Parkside Drive
             (Parkside Rezoning).
2019- 8-12-  Rezoning of approximately 0.455 acres from R- PUD Residential Planned Unit
81    2019   Development to R-4 Single Family Residential located at 6958 Butler-Warren
             Road.
2020- 2-24-  Rezoning approximately 0.97 acres from R-1 Single Family Residential to R-
5     2020   6 Condominium and Landominium Residential located at 4320 Stitt Road (Stitt
             Rezoning).
2020- 3-9-   Approval of a revised concept planned unit development plan for the Tower Park
25    2020   Development located at 710 Tylersville Road.
2020- 7-13-  Rezoning approximately 2.7 acres from B-3 Road Service Commercial to I-1 Light
53    2020   Industrial located behind 1110 Reading Road (Reading Road Rezoning).
             Rezoning approximately 1.59 acres from HT-1 High Tech Light Industrial to B-
2020- 11-9-  PUD Business Planned Unit Development with approval of the concept planned
95    2020   unit development plan located between 4920 and 4834 Socialville-Foster Road
             (White Blossom PUD).
2021- 3-8-   Rezoning approximately 0.4 acres from B-2 Shopping Center District to B-3 Road
25    2021   Service Commercial located at 5614 Tylersville Road (Tylersville Road UDF).
2021- 5-10-  Approval of a revised concept planned unit development plan for the Mercy
49    2021   Health Medical Campus generally bounded by Kings Island Drive, Kings Mills
             Road, Columbia Road and Wilson Avenue.
2021- 8-9-   Rezoning approximately 13.31 acres from R-1 Single Family Residential to R-PUD
71    2021   Residential Planned Unit Development with approval of the concept planned unit
             development plan located at 6369, 6429 and 6465 Mason Road (Ainsley PUD).
2021- 11-8-  Approval of a revised concept planned unit development plan for the Villages
101   2021   of Mason located north and west of Beach Boulevard.
2022- 2-14-  Rezoning of approximately 13.31 acres from R-1 Single Family Residential to R-
2     2022   3 Single Family Residential located at 6369, 6429, and 6465 Mason Road
             (Ainsley Subdivision).
2022- 2-14-  Rezoning of approximately 5.81 acres from I-1 Light Industrial to B-3 Road
3     2022   Service Commercial located at 4230 US 42 (US 42 rezoning).
             Rezoning approximately 10.58 acres from R-1 Single Family Residential to RES-
2023- 2-13-  PUD Residential Planned Unit Development with approval of the concept planned
3     2023   unit development plan located on Western Row Road immediately east of the
             existing Mason Christian Village Property (Mason Christian Village PUD).
             Rezoning of approximately 137.419 acres from Warren County R-1 Single Family
2023- 3-13-  Residential and Warren County I-2 General Industrial Manufacturing to City of
13    2023   Mason R-1 Single Family Residential and I-1 Light Industrial located at
             Bunnell Road and U.S. 42 (former Castle Farm property).
             Rezoning of approximately 15.1976 acres from R-2 Single Family Residential to
2023- 7-10-  RES-PUD Residential Planned Unit Development with approval of the concept
56    2023   planned unit development plan located east of Manor House and the Mosaic PUD,
             south of Alverta, and north of White Blossom (O+E PUD).
2023- 1-8-   Rezoning of approximately 30.13 acres from B-4 Commercial Recreation to R-
108   2024   1 Single Family Residential located on the east side of Columbia Road, north
             of Kings Island and south of Kings High School.
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
Historical References to Ohio Revised Code
References to Ordinances and Resolutions
HISTORICAL REFERENCES TO OHIO REVISED CODE
Editor’s note:
   This table lists those Ohio Revised Code sections which have been
substantially duplicated by corresponding code of ordinance sections. All
legislative history references to “(R.C. § xx.xx)” which appear at the end of
sections (or divisions of sections) in the city’s code of ordinances have been
listed here. Example: to determine which section of the code of ordinances is
based on R.C. § 4511.19, scan down this table to the citation for “4511.19" and
examine the entry across from it which list the code section that is based on
the state law.
R.C. Section Code Section
R.C. Section                           Code Section
1.01                                   101.01
1.02                                   101.02
1.05                                   101.02
1.14                                   101.03
1.15                                   101.03
1.23                                   101.05
1.42                                   101.03
1.43                                   101.03
1.44                                   101.02
1.45                                   101.03
1.46                                   101.06
1.47                                   101.07
1.48                                   101.07
1.49                                   101.07
1.50                                   101.08
1.51                                   101.06
1.52                                   101.06
1.55                                   101.05
1.57                                   101.04
1.58                                   101.04
1.59                                   101.02
9.481                                  165.23
128.01(A)                              537.12
128.96(F) - (H)                        537.12
128.99(A), (B)                         537.12
701.01                                 101.02
723.011                                521.06
901.51                                 541.06
901.99(A)                              541.06
925.62                                 505.12
925.99(B)                              505.12
951.99                                 505.01
955.10                                 505.21
955.11(A)                              505.01
955.21                                 505.03
955.22                                 505.01,
                                       505.18
955.222                                505.01
955.24                                 505.20
955.25                                 505.22
955.54                                 505.24
955.99                                 505.18
                                       505.20,
955.99(B)                              505.21,
                                       505.22
955.99(E)                              505.01,
                                       505.03
955.99(F)                              505.01
955.99(G)                              505.01
955.99(H)                              505.01
955.99(J)                              505.01
955.99(L)                              505.01
955.99(M)                              505.01
955.99(N)                              505.01
955.99(O)                              505.24
955.99(P)                              505.01
955.99(Q)                              505.01
959.01                                 505.04
959.02                                 505.05
959.03                                 505.06
959.13                                 505.07
959.131                                505.07
959.99(B)                              505.05
959.99(C)                              505.06
959.99(D)                              505.07
959.99(E)                              505.07
959.99(E)(3)                           505.04
1349.17                                545.27
1349.99                                545.27
2901.01                                501.01
2901.02                                501.02
2901.03                                501.03
2901.04                                501.04
2901.09                                501.15
2901.11                                501.05
2901.13                                501.06
2901.21                                501.07
2901.22                                501.08
2901.23                                501.11
2901.24                                501.12
2903.05                                537.01
2903.06                                537.02
2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E)-(G) 537.02
2903.09                                537.001
2903.10                                537.24
2903.13                                537.03
2903.14                                537.04
2903.16                                537.24
2903.21                                537.05
2903.211                               537.051
2903.22                                537.06
2903.31                                537.22
2903.311(B), (C)                       537.22
2905.03                                537.08
2905.12                                537.09
2907.01                                533.01
2907.04                                533.03
2907.06                                533.04
2907.08                                533.06
2907.09                                533.07
2907.10                                533.16
2907.23                                533.08
2907.231                               533.08
2907.24                                533.09
2907.241                               533.091
2907.25                                533.10
2907.26                                533.17
2907.31                                533.11
2907.311                               533.13
2907.33                                533.12
2907.35                                533.02
2907.36                                533.18
2907.37                                533.19
2907.38                                533.14
2907.39                                533.15
2907.40                                533.20
2909.01                                545.01
2909.03                                541.01
2909.06                                541.03
2909.07                                541.04
2909.08(A) - (E)                       549.18
2909.09                                541.03
2909.10                                541.09
2909.101                               541.09
2909.11(B) - (D)                       541.01
2909.31                                545.24
2911.21                                541.05
2911.211                               541.051
2911.23                                541.05
2911.32                                545.12
2913.01                                545.01
2913.02                                545.05
2913.03                                545.06
2913.04                                545.08
2913.07                                545.23
2913.11                                545.09
2913.21                                545.10
2913.31(B)                             545.20
2913.31(C)(2)                          545.20
2913.32                                545.13
2913.33                                545.11
2913.40                                545.30
2913.401                               545.30
2913.41                                545.29
2913.42                                545.14
2913.43                                545.15
2913.44                                545.16
2913.441                               525.14
2913.45                                545.17
2913.47                                545.07
2913.51                                545.18
2913.61(B) - (E)                       545.02
2913.71                                545.03
2913.72                                545.25
2915.01                                517.01
2915.02(A) - (G), (K)                  517.02
2915.03                                517.03
2915.04                                517.04
2915.05                                517.05
2915.06                                517.14
2915.061                               517.14
2915.09                                517.06
2915.091                               517.10
2915.092                               517.11
2915.093                               517.12
2915.094                               517.13
2915.10                                517.07
2915.11                                517.08
2915.12                                517.09
2915.13                                517.12
2915.14                                517.15
2917.01                                509.011
2917.03                                509.01
2917.031                               509.01
2917.04                                509.02
2917.05                                509.12
2917.11                                509.03
2917.12                                509.04
2917.13                                509.05
2917.14                                509.13
2917.21                                537.10
2917.211                               533.22
2917.31                                509.06
2917.32                                509.07
2917.40                                537.21
2917.41                                545.27
2919.18                                537.25
2919.21                                537.19
2919.22(A) - (E)                       537.07
2919.23                                537.20
2919.24                                537.18
2919.25                                537.14
2919.27                                537.051
2921.01                                501.01,
                                       525.01
2921.13                                525.02
2921.14                                525.18
2921.15                                525.17
2921.21                                525.04
2921.22                                525.05
2921.23                                525.06
2921.29                                545.24
2921.31                                525.07
2921.32                                525.08
2921.321                               525.16
2921.33                                525.09
2921.331(A) - (C)                      303.01,
                                       525.19
2921.331(E)                            303.01,
                                       525.19
2921.331(F)                            303.01,
                                       525.19
2921.36                                529.11
2921.42                                525.10
2921.43                                525.11
2921.44                                525.12
2921.45                                525.13
2921.51                                525.03
2921.52(A) - (D)                       525.21
2923.02                                501.09
2923.03                                501.10
2923.11                                549.01
2923.12                                549.02
2923.1211(B)                           549.12
2923.1211(C)                           549.12
2923.1212                              549.12
2923.122(C) - (G)                      549.10
2923.126                               549.12
2923.131                               549.14
2923.15                                549.03
2923.16                                549.04
2923.162                               549.17
2923.18                                549.15
2923.19                                549.05
2923.20                                549.06
2923.201                               549.13
2923.211                               549.07
2923.24                                545.19
2925.01                                513.01
2925.03(A)-(C), (I)                    513.02
2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G)           513.06
2925.11                                513.03
2925.12                                513.04
2925.13(A)-(C), (F)                    513.05
2925.14                                513.12
2925.141                               513.12
2925.31                                513.07
2925.32(B)(4)                          513.16
2925.32(D)(2)                          513.16
2925.32(F)                             513.16
2925.32(G)                             513.16
2925.33                                513.11
2925.34                                513.20
2925.36(A)-(C)                         513.08
2925.37(A), (G)                        513.13
2925.50                                513.18
2925.51                                513.17
2925.511                               513.17
2925.55                                513.15
2925.56                                513.15
2925.57                                513.15
2925.58                                513.15
2925.62                                513.21
2927.02                                537.16
2927.021                               537.16
2927.022                               537.16
2927.023                               537.16
2927.03                                537.23
2927.11                                541.07
2927.12                                541.08
2927.15                                537.11
2927.17                                533.21
2929.21                                501.99
2929.22                                501.99
2929.23                                533.99
2929.24                                501.99
2929.25                                501.99
2929.26                                501.99
2929.27                                501.99
2929.28                                501.99
2929.31                                501.99
2929.41                                501.16
2935.041                               545.03
2935.36(E)                             501.99
2981.07                                545.22
2981.11                                525.20
2981.12                                525.20
2981.13(A)                             525.20
3701.81                                521.12
3701.82                                521.02
3701.99(B)                             521.02
3701.99(C)                             521.12
3715.05                                513.15
3715.06                                513.15
3716.11                                537.13
3716.99(C)                             537.13
3719.08(A)                             513.09
3719.08(E)                             513.09
3719.172(A)                            513.10
3719.172(B)                            513.10
3719.19                                513.18
3719.99(C)                             513.09
3719.99(E)                             513.10
3743.01                                1519.01
3743.54                                1519.02
3743.61(E) - (J)                       1519.07
3743.63                                1519.08
3743.64                                1519.03
3743.65(A) - (E)                       1519.04
3743.66                                1519.09
3743.68(B)                             1519.10
3743.80                                1519.05
3767.13                                521.09
3767.29                                521.01
3767.32                                521.08
                                       521.01,
3767.99(B)                             521.08,
                                       521.09
3780.36                                513.22
3780.99                                513.22
3781.55                                533.07
4301.01                                529.01
4301.22(A)(2)                          529.06
4301.22(B)                             529.03
4301.244                               529.01
4301.62                                529.07
4301.63                                529.02
4301.631                               529.06
4301.633                               529.02
4301.634                               529.02
4301.637                               529.10
4301.64                                529.04
4301.65                                529.09
4301.69                                529.02
4301.70                                529.10
                                       529.07,
4301.99(A)                             529.09,
                                       529.10
4301.99(B)                             529.04,
                                       529.06
4301.99(C)                             529.02
4301.99(D)                             529.03
4301.99(E)                             529.02,
                                       529.06
4301.99(F)                             529.02
4301.99(H)                             529.03,
                                       537.07
4301.99(I)                             529.02
4301.99(J)                             529.09
4303.202(D)(2)                         529.08
4303.208(C)                            529.08
4303.25                                529.05
4303.99(D)                             529.08
4501.01(LL)                            301.061
4501.01(TT)                            371.12
4503.11(A)                             335.09
4503.11(D)                             335.09
4503.111                               335.09
4503.12(A)                             335.09
4503.12(D)                             335.09
4503.21(A)                             335.09
4503.21(B)                             335.09
4503.236                               333.10
4505.18                                335.075
4506.01                                341.01
4506.011                               341.02
4506.04(A)                             341.04
4506.04(B)                             341.04
4506.04(C)                             341.04
4506.10(A)                             341.07
4506.10(E)                             341.07
4506.12(I)                             341.04
4506.12(J)                             341.04
4506.15                                341.05
4506.19                                341.08
4506.20                                341.06
4506.23                                341.09
4507.02(A)(1)                          335.01
4507.02(A)(2)                          335.02
4507.03                                335.01
4507.04                                335.01
4507.05(F)                             335.03
4507.05(I)                             335.03
4507.071(B) - (J)                      335.031
4507.213                               335.01
4507.30                                335.04
4507.35                                335.05
4507.99                                335.02
4509.102                               525.02
4510.037(J)                            335.071
                                       335.071,
4510.04                                335.073,
                                       335.074,
                                       335.075
4510.05                                303.13,
                                       501.17
4510.11                                335.071
4510.111                               335.071
4510.12                                335.072
4510.14                                335.073
4510.16                                335.074
4510.21                                335.075
4510.44                                333.011
4511.01(A)                             301.51
4511.01(B)                             301.20
4511.01(C)                             301.19
4511.01(D)                             301.11
4511.01(E)                             301.27
4511.01(F)                             301.35
4511.01(G)                             301.04
4511.01(H)                             301.04
4511.01(I)                             301.07
4511.01(J)                             301.02
4511.01(K)                             301.49
4511.01(L)                             301.05
4511.01(M)                             301.48
4511.01(N)                             301.36
4511.01(O)                             301.24
4511.01(P)                             301.28
4511.01(Q)                             301.30
4511.01(T)                             301.12
4511.01(U)                             301.14
4511.01(V)                             301.16
4511.01(W)                             301.23
4511.01(X)                             301.22
4511.01(Y)                             301.10
4511.01(Z)                             301.25
4511.01(AA)                            301.181
4511.01(BB)                            301.42
4511.01(CC)                            301.08
4511.01(DD)                            301.26
4511.01(EE)                            301.33
4511.01(FF)                            301.37
4511.01(GG)                            301.18
4511.01(HH)                            301.43
4511.01(II)                            301.371
4511.01(JJ)                            301.38
4511.01(KK)                            301.17
4511.01(LL)                            301.09
4511.01(MM)                            301.34
4511.01(NN)                            301.06
4511.01(OO)                            301.31
4511.01(PP)                            301.50
4511.01(QQ)                            301.46
4511.01(RR)                            301.47
4511.01(SS)                            301.29
4511.01(TT)                            301.45
4511.01(UU)                            301.32
4511.01(VV)                            301.331
4511.01(WW)                            301.155
4511.01(XX)                            301.03
4511.01(YY)                            301.15
4511.01(ZZ)                            301.13
4511.01(AAA)                           301.44
4511.01(BBB)                           301.41
4511.01(CCC)                           301.031
4511.01(DDD)                           301.311
4511.01(EEE)                           301.52
4511.01(FFF)                           301.062
4511.01(GGG)                           301.02
4511.01(HHH)                           301.201
4511.01(III)                           301.251
4511.01(JJJ)                           301.321
4511.01(KKK)                           301.031
4511.01(LLL)                           301.165
4511.01(MMM)                           301.163
4511.01(NNN)                           301.183
4511.01(OOO)                           301.252
4511.01(PPP)                           301.361
4511.01(QQQ)                           301.161
4511.01(RRR)                           301.53
4511.01(SSS)                           301.105
4511.01(TTT)                           301.105
4511.01(UUU)                           301.105
4511.01(WWW)                           301.182
4511.03                                331.20
4511.031                               313.11
4511.04                                303.04
4511.041                               303.041
4511.042                               303.041
4511.05                                303.05
4511.051                               303.06
4511.12(A)                             313.01
4511.12(B)                             313.01
4511.121(A) - (C)                      313.01
4511.121(E)                            313.01
4511.121(D)                            313.01
4511.13                                313.03
4511.131                               313.04
4511.132                               313.09
4511.14                                313.05
4511.16                                313.07
4511.17                                313.08
4511.18                                313.10
4511.181                               333.01
4511.19(A) - (F)                       333.01
4511.19(G) - (M)                       333.01
4511.191(A)                            333.01
4511.191(D)                            333.01
4511.192                               333.01
4511.193                               333.11
4511.194                               333.01
4511.20                                333.02
4511.201                               333.02
4511.202                               333.08
4511.203                               335.05
4511.204                               331.47
4511.205                               331.48
4511.21(A) - (G)                       333.03
4511.21(O)                             333.03
4511.21(P)                             333.03
4511.211                               333.12
4511.213                               333.031
4511.214                               333.13
4511.215                               333.13
4511.216                               333.13
4511.22                                333.04
4511.23                                333.05
4511.24                                333.06
4511.25                                331.01
4511.251                               333.07
4511.26                                331.02
4511.27                                331.03
4511.28                                331.04
4511.29                                331.05
4511.30                                331.06
4511.31                                331.07
4511.32                                331.30
4511.33                                331.08
4511.34                                331.09
4511.35                                331.31
4511.36                                331.10
4511.37                                331.12
4511.38                                331.13
4511.39                                331.14
4511.40                                331.15
4511.41                                331.16
4511.42                                331.17
4511.43                                331.18
4511.431(A)                            331.23
4511.431(B)                            331.23
4511.432                               331.45
4511.44                                331.22
4511.441                               371.07
4511.45                                331.21
4511.451                               331.24
4511.452                               371.08
4511.454                               331.21
4511.46                                371.01
4511.47                                371.02
4511.48                                371.03
4511.481                               371.09
4511.49                                371.04
4511.491                               371.11
4511.50                                371.05
4511.511                               371.10
4511.512                               371.12
4511.513                               371.13
4511.514                               371.14
4511.52                                373.01
4511.521                               373.10
4511.522                               373.17
4511.53                                373.02
4511.54                                373.03
4511.55                                373.07
4511.56                                373.06
4511.60                                331.29
4511.61                                331.40
4511.62                                331.39
4511.63                                331.40
4511.64                                331.46
4511.65                                313.02
4511.66                                351.12
4511.661                               351.07
4511.67                                351.01
4511.68                                351.03
4511.681                               351.18
4511.69                                351.04
4511.70                                331.25
4511.701                               331.35
4511.71                                331.26
4511.711                               331.37
4511.712                               331.33
4511.713(A)                            373.11
4511.713(B)                            373.11
4511.714                               331.26
4511.72                                331.27
4511.73                                331.28
4511.74                                311.01
4511.75                                331.38
4511.79                                341.10
4511.81(A) - (H)                       337.26
4511.81(K)                             337.26
4511.81(L)                             337.26
4511.82                                331.43
4511.84                                331.44
4511.85                                339.14
4511.99                                303.99
4511.991                               303.99
4513.02(A)                             337.01
4513.02(H)                             337.01
4513.021                               337.29
4513.03                                337.02
4513.04                                337.03
4513.05                                337.04
4513.06                                337.05
4513.07                                337.06
4513.071                               337.24
4513.08                                337.07
4513.09                                337.08
4513.10                                337.09
4513.11                                337.10
4513.111                               337.10
4513.112                               337.10
4513.113                               337.10
4513.114                               337.10
4513.115                               337.10
4513.12                                337.11
4513.13                                337.12
4513.14                                337.13
4513.15                                337.14
4513.16                                337.15
4513.17                                337.16
4513.171                               337.33
4513.182                               337.34
4513.19                                337.17
4513.20                                337.18
4513.21                                337.19
4513.22                                337.20
4513.23                                337.21
4513.24                                337.22
4513.261                               337.31
4513.263                               337.27
4513.29                                339.06
4513.30                                337.23
4513.31                                339.08
4513.32                                339.07
4513.34                                339.01
4513.36                                303.12
4513.361                               303.11
4513.60                                351.18
4513.601                               351.18
4513.66                                335.15
4513.68                                335.15
                                       337.09,
                                       337.18,
                                       337.23,
4513.99                                337.34,
                                       339.01,
                                       339.06—
                                       339.08
4519.01                                375.01
4519.02                                375.06
4519.20                                375.02
4519.40                                375.03
4519.401                               333.13
4519.41                                375.04
4519.44                                375.05
4519.46                                375.07
4519.48                                375.09
4519.66                                375.08
4549.02                                335.12
4549.021                               335.13
4549.03                                335.14
4549.05                                303.03
4549.08                                335.11
4549.081(B)                            313.01
4549.081(C)                            313.01
4549.11(A)                             335.09
4549.11(B)                             335.09
4549.12(A)                             335.09
4549.12(B)                             335.09
4549.20                                337.32
4933.18                                545.26
4933.19                                545.26
5577.05                                339.03
5577.06                                339.03
5577.11                                339.05
5577.15                                339.07
5577.99(C)                             339.03
5577.99(E)                             339.05
5589.08                                339.10
5589.081                               339.11
5589.12                                545.21
5589.99(B)                             339.11,
                                       545.21
                                       
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
Editor’s note:
   Source material for the codified ordinances of Mason was either ordinances
or resolutions enacted by Council, or new matter ordained by the adopting
ordinance. Sections of the codified ordinances without any history indicate
that these sections contain new matter ordained by the adopting ordinance. In
the following table, the disposition of all source material in the Mason
codified ordinances is indicated.
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
--           -           133.022
146          1-31-1911   TSO Table E
147          9-19-1911   TSO Table G
148          11-2-1911   TSO Table H
150          1-1-1912    TSO Table G
154          7-8-1912    TSO Table A
155          7-8-1912    TSO Table A
171          10-25-1915  TSO Table G
174          4-22-1918   TSO Table A
179          3-7-1921    TSO Table F
184          11-13-1922  TSO Table A
185          11-13-1922  TSO Table A
186          11-13-1922  TSO Table A
196          11-7-1927   TSO Table G
199          4-23-1928   TSO Table A
209          12-29-1929  TSO Table H
219          8-24-1931   TSO Table A
Res. A-8     5-24-1932   TSO Table A
A-29         7-23-1934   TSO Table A
A-33         4-22-1935   TSO Table A
A-89         11-27-1939  TSO Table A
A-98         3-25-1940   TSO Table A
A-102        8-26-1940   TSO Table A
-15          7-29-1942   TSO Table G
Res. B-20    8-10-1942   TSO Table F
-26          10-14-1942  TSO Table C
-58          9-27-1943   TSO Table G
Res. B-86    6-26-1944   TSO Table A
-91          9-25-1944   TSO Table C
-94          12-18-1944  TSO Table A
-95          12-18-1944  TSO Table A
C-20         5-25-1946   TSO Table G
Res. C-23    3-25-1946   TSO Table F
C-24         4-22-1946   TSO Table B
C-35         9-23-1946   TSO Table E
C-37         11-25-1946  TSO Table G
C-40         12-23-1946  TSO Table B
C-54         12-22-1947  TSO Table A
C-55         12-22-1947  TSO Table A
C-63         7-29-1948   TSO Table C
C-78         6-10-1949   TSO Table E
C-80         6-10-1949   TSO Table A
C-88         1-23-1950   TSO Table A
C-89         1-30-1950   TSO Table A
D-4          12-26-1950  TSO Table H
D-17         9-24-1951   TSO Table G
D-20         11-26-1951  TSO Table H
D-23         1-28-1952   TSO Table A
D-31         6-23-1952   TSO Table A
Res. D-32    6-23-1952   TSO Table D
Res. D-33    6-23-1952   TSO Table E
Res. D-42    2-23-1953   TSO Table B
Res. D-59    9-27-1954   TSO Table D
D-65         1-24-1955   TSO Table A
D-66         1-24-1955   TSO Table A
Res. D-92    10-29-1956  TSO Table E
Res. D-97    12-11-1956  TSO Table F
E-11         4-22-1957   TSO Table A
Res. E-40    11-26-1957  TSO Table B
E-41         9-22-1958   TSO Table H
Res. E-46    10-27-1958  TSO Table D
Res. E-47    10-27-1958  TSO Table D
E-63         3-11-1959   TSO Table G
E-70         4-27-1959   TSO Table H
E-71         4-27-1959   TSO Table E
                         911.01—
E-81         8-5-1959    911.04,
                         921.01,
                         921.02
E-90         12-28-1959  TSO Table D
E-91         12-28-1959  TSO Table D
E-93         1-25-1960   TSO Table A
F-1          5-23-1960   TSO Table I
F-4          6-27-1960   TSO Table A
F-12         7-25-1960   TSO Table A
Res. F-13    9-6-1960    TSO Table E
Res. F-15    10-24-1960  TSO Table D
F-22         3-27-1961   TSO Table H
F-26 1/2     5-8-1961    TSO Table I
F-28         6-5-1961    TSO Table H
F-36         8-28-1961   TSO Table I
F-40         9-25-1961   TSO Table I
F-48         3-5-1962    TSO Table D
F-73         11-26-1962  TSO Table C
F-81         11-26-1962  TSO Table A
F-84         1-28-1963   TSO Table I
F-86         11-26-1962  TSO Table A
F-87         11-26-1962  TSO Table A
G-9          1-28-1963   TSO Table H
G-14         2-25-1963   TSO Table H
G-19         2-25-1963   TSO Table B
G-20         2-25-1963   TSO Table B
G-21         2-25-1963   TSO Table B
G-22         2-25-1963   TSO Table B
G-23         2-25-1963   TSO Table B
G-24         2-25-1963   TSO Table B
G-30         3-25-1963   TSO Table D
G-32         4-8-1963    TSO Table B
G-36         5-27-1963   TSO Table A
G-41         6-24-1963   TSO Table B
G-48         10-14-1963  TSO Table I
G-52         12-9-1963   TSO Table I
G-54         1-27-1964   TSO Table A
G-64         3-23-1964   TSO Table A
G-87         10-26-1964  TSO Table H
H-1          1-25-1965   TSO Table A
H-15         6-14-1965   TSO Table H
H-27         7-26-1965   TSO Table I
H-29         8-9-1965    TSO Table A
H-44         12-27-1965  TSO Table A
H-53         3-14-1966   Repealed by Ord. 2002-61
H-58         4-25-1966   509.09
H-65         8-8-1966    TSO Table G
H-66A        8-22-1966   TSO Table H
H-67         7-11-1966   TSO Table H
H-81         12-23-1966  TSO Table E
13-1967      4-10-1967   TSO Table I
22-1967      4-24-1967   TSO Table I
43-1967      11-13-1967  TSO Table I
45-1967      8-28-1967   TSO Table A
2-1968       3-18-1968   TSO Table H
6-1968       4-8-1968    TSO Table I
7-1968       2-26-1968   TSO Table D
8-1968       3-11-1968   TSO Table D
13-1968      5-13-1968   TSO Table E,
                         TSO Table I
14-1968      5-13-1968   TSO Table D
23-1968      8-26-1968   TSO Table I
26-1968      7-22-1968   TSO Table C
31-1968      7-15-1968   TSO Table F
47-1968      9-23-1968   TSO Table A
48-1968      9-23-1968   TSO Table A
50-1968      10-7-1968   TSO Table B
51-1968      10-7-1968   TSO Table F
58-1968      10-28-1968  TSO Table A
69-1968      12-20-1968  TSO Table I
71-1968      11-25-1968  TSO Table A
75-1968      12-23-1968  TSO Table H
2-1969       3-10-1969   521.10,
                         549.11
6-1969       3-10-1969   TSO Table I
8-1969       1-27-1969   TSO Table E
18-1969      2-10-1969   TSO Table E
21-1969      2-23-1969   311.02
20-1969      2-24-1969   TSO Table G
23-1969      3-10-1969   513.14
37-1969      5-12-1969   TSO Table D
5-1970       3-9-1970    TSO Table I
10-1970      1-26-1970   123.01
27-1970      4-16-1970   TSO Table F
35-1970      8-10-1970   TSO Table B
36-1970      5-25-1970   TSO Table I
49-1970      11-9-1970   TSO Table I
50-1970      9-28-1970   181.15
51-1970      9-28-1970   TSO Table G
55-1970      10-26-1970  711.01,
                         711.02
58-1970      11-23-1970  TSO Table A
67-1970      12-14-1970  TSO Table H
13A-1971     3-8-1971    TSO Table D
12-1971      3-22-1971   TSO Table D
27-1971      6-28-1971   TSO Table H,
                         TSO Table I
Res. 8-1971  7-26-1971   TSO Table E
34-1971      10-11-1971  TSO Table H
35-1971      12-13-1971  TSO Table I
3-1972       2-28-1972   TSO Table D
7-1972       2-28-1972   TSO Table D
11-1972      3-13-1972   TSO Table D
17-1972      4-10-1972   183.01
20-1972      7-10-1972   TSO Table I
20A-1972     6-12-1972   TSO Table I
21-1972      4-10-1972   TSO Table C
29-1972      6-12-1972   TSO Table H
33-1972      10-9-1972   TSO Table I
34-1972      9-25-1972   TSO Table I
37-1972      9-25-1972   TSO Table D
38-1972      10-9-1972   TSO Table I
39-1972      10-23-1972  TSO Table I
40-1972      10-23-1972  TSO Table I
43-1972      11-20-1972  TSO Table I
50-1972      11-20-1972  137.01
45-1972      12-11-1972  TSO Table H,
                         TSO Table I
58-1972      12-11-1972  TSO Table D
6A-1973      1-22-1973   TSO Table D
13-1973      2-26-1973   TSO Table I
22-1973      3-12-1973   TSO Table I
24-1973      2-26-1973   TSO Table D
30-1973      2-26-1973   TSO Table A
33-1973      3-26-1973   151.01
41-1973      6-25-1973   TSO Table G
48-1973      5-14-1973   TSO Table F
49-1973      5-14-1973   TSO Table B
57-1973      6-11-1973   351.14
58-1973      6-25-1973   TSO Table D
59-1973      7-16-1973   TSO Table I
60-1973      7-16-1973   TSO Table D
61-1973      7-9-1973    TSO Table A
72-1973      8-13-1973   TSO Table D
74-1973      9-10-1973   TSO Table D
85-1973      11-12-1973  TSO Table D
1-1974       1-28-1974   TSO Table B
4-1974       2-11-1974   TSO Table C
6-1974       3-11-1974   TSO Table E
9-1974       4-8-1974    TSO Table I
10-1974      7-8-1974    TSO Table I
13-1974      4-22-1974   TSO Table I
14-1974      7-8-1974    TSO Table H
17-1974      4-8-1974    TSO Table E
19-1974      4-8-1974    TSO Table E
22A-1974     5-29-1974   TSO Table D
27-1974      6-10-1974   TSO Table A
28-1974      7-8-1974    TSO Table I
29-1974      6-24-1974   TSO Table E
43-1974      9-9-1974    137.02
47-1974      10-14-1974  TSO Table I
56-1974      11-25-1974  TSO Table D
64-1974      12-9-1974   351.15
75-1974      12-21-1974  TSO Table H
Res. R3-1975 2-24-1975   Repealed by Ord. 2001-26
Res. R4-1975 2-24-1975   Repealed by Ord. 2001-26
7-1975       3-10-1975   TSO Table I
10-1975      3-10-1975   TSO Table H
13-1975      4-14-1975   TSO Table I
20-1975      6-23-1975   TSO Table D
23-1975      6-9-1975    145.03
25-1975      6-9-1975    183.02
26-1975      6-23-1975   TSO Table H
27-1975      6-23-1975   TSO Table H
28-1975      6-23-1975   TSO Table I
29-1975      6-23-1975   TSO Table I
44-1975      6-30-1975   TSO Table D
47-1975      7-14-1975   TSO Table D
71-1975      1-26-1976   TSO Table D
72-1975      1-26-1976   TSO Table D
73-1975      1-26-1976   TSO Table D
74-1975      9-8-1976    TSO Table D
75-1975      9-8-1975    TSO Table D
86-1975      10-13-1975  TSO Table D
4-1976       1-26-1976   TSO Table I
8-1976       1-26-1976   TSO Table D
14-1976      2-9-1976    TSO Table D
22-1976      3-8-1976    TSO Table H
23-1976      2-23-1976   TSO Table E
25-1976      3-8-1976    TSO Table I
35-1976      4-12-1976   TSO Table B
47-1976      6-28-1976   TSO Table I
48-1976      6-28-1976   TSO Table I
49-1976      6-28-1976   TSO Table I
52-1976      6-14-1976   TSO Table H
53-1976      7-26-1976   TSO Table I
53A-1976     7-26-1976   TSO Table I
57-1976      6-14-1976   TSO Table B
58-1976      6-14-1976   TSO Table E
74-1976      8-9-1976    TSO Table D
82-1976      9-13-1976   TSO Table D
94-1976      11-22-1976  TSO Table B
95-1976      11-22-1976  TSO Table D
96-1976      11-22-1976  121.03
103-1976     12-20-1976  Not codified
13-1977      3-14-1977   337.20
21-1977      4-25-1977   TSO Table H
27-1977      4-25-1977   133.02
                         505.01,
31-1977      5-9-1977    505.13,
                         505.14
33-1977      4-25-77     Repeals
                         529.08
39-1977      5-23-1977   TSO Table D
51-1977      7-25-1977   TSO Table I
58-1977      8-8-1977    TSO Table D
63-1977      9-12-1977   TSO Table B
66-1977      10-24-1977  TSO Table I 
70-1977      9-26-1977   TSO Table D
72-1977      10-10-1977  TSO Table E
76-1977      10-24-1977  TSO Table D
80-1977      11-14-1977  TSO Table H
81-1977      11-28-1977  TSO Table I
82-1977      10-24-1977  TSO Table D
83-1977      11-28-1977  TSO Table D
89-1977      12-12-1977  Repealed by Ord. 2023-42
2-1978       1-9-1978    TSO Table D
5-1978       2-13-1978   165.13
7-1978       2-27-1978   TSO Table H
11-1978      2-27-1978   TSO Table B
12-1978      3-27-1978   TSO Table H
15-1978      3-27-1978   TSO Table D
17-1978      3-28-1978   TSO Table H
21-1978      4-24-1978   TSO Table I
26-1978      3-27-1978   TSO Table B
29-1978      5-8-1978    TSO Table I
34-1978      4-10-1978   TSO Table E
                         185.01—
36-1978      5-8-1978    185.14,
                         185.99
44-1978      6-12-1978   715.01,
                         715.02
51-1978      5-8-1978    165.14
54-1978      5-8-1978    TSO Table D
55-1978      5-8-1978    TSO Table D
56-1978      5-8-1978    TSO Table D
60-1978      6-12-1978   TSO Table D
64-1978      6-12-1978   TSO Table D
66-1978      6-26-1978   TSO Table H
68-1978      6-26-1978   TSO Table E
73-1978      7-10-1978   TSO Table D
75-1978      8-14-1978   TSO Table I
79-1978      7-24-1978   TSO Table D
80-1978      7-24-1978   TSO Table D
88-1978      8-14-1978   TSO Table A
97-1978      8-14-1978   TSO Table D
110-1978     10-23-1978  TSO Table I
115-1978     9-25-1978   TSO Table C
119-1978     10-9-1978   183.99
130-1978     10-23-1978  TSO Table D
131-1978     10-23-1978  TSO Table D
132-1978     10-23-1978  TSO Table B
133-1978     10-23-1978  TSO Table B
134-1978     10-23-1978  TSO Table B
139-1978     11-27-1978  TSO Table D
141-1978     11-27-1978  351.17
144-1978     11-13-1978  TSO Table E
154-1978     11-13-1978  TSO Table D
164-1978     1-8-1979    TSO Table B
9-1979       1-22-1979   TSO Table H
13-1979      3-26-1979   TSO Table I
10-1979      3-12-1979   Repealed by Ord. 2001-26
16-1979      2-26-1979   TSO Table E
31-1979      4-9-1979    TSO Table H
37-1979      4-9-1979    303.08
45-1979      5-14-1979   TSO Table I
47-1979      4-23-1979   145.02
48-1979      5-29-1979   947.01
49-1979      5-29-1979   947.02
51-1979      5-29-1979   103.01
52-1979      5-14-1979   133.01
70-1979      6-11-1979   TSO Table H
75-1979      8-13-1979   TSO Table I
76-1979      7-9-1979    TSO Table A
                         1501.03,
                         1501.05—
80-1979      6-26-1979   1501.07,
                         1501.10,
                         1501.13
82-1979      8-13-1979   TSO Table I
114-1979     10-8-1979   121.02
142-1979     1-14-1980   509.10
4-1980       1-14-1980   TSO Table I
5-1980       1-28-1980   TSO Table F
6-1980       1-28-1980   TSO Table D
8-1980       3-10-1980   TSO Table I
12-1980      2-11-1980   TSO Table D
13-1980      2-11-1980   TSO Table D
15-1980      3-24-1980   TSO Table I
22-1980      3-24-1980   TSO Table F
33-1980      4-14-1980   TSO Table B
34-1980      5-12-1980   TSO Table I
39-1980      4-28-1980   TSO Table G
46-1980      5-27-1980   TSO Table I
48-1980      5-27-1980   165.16
49-1980      5-12-1980   TSO Table D
52-1980      5-27-1980   TSO Table H
55-1980      7-14-1980   TSO Table D
56-1980      8-11-1980   TSO Table I
60-1980      6-14-1980   TSO Table D
70-1980      9-8-1980    TSO Table I
71-1980      9-22-1980   TSO Table D
73-1980      9-22-1980   TSO Table C
85-1980      10-13-1980  965.01,
                         965.02
94-1980      11-10-1980  TSO Table B
102-1980     12-8-1980   TSO Table D
101-1980     12-8-1980   TSO Table D
103-1980     1-26-1981   TSO Table I
3-1981       1-12-1981   TSO Table B
9-1981       1-26-1981   TSO Table F
10-1981      2-23-1981   TSO Table I
11-1981      3-9-1981    TSO Table I
20-1981      3-9-1981    Repeals 1137.06
25-1981      3-23-1981   TSO Table B
31-1981      4-13-1981   TSO Table D
30-1981      5-26-1981   TSO Table I
32-1981      4-27-1981   505.15,
                         505.16
35-1981      4-27-1981   TSO Table D
39-1981      5-11-1981   141.01—
                         141.03
45-1981      7-13-1981   TSO Table I
53-1981      6-8-1981    711.03,
                         711.99
55-1981      6-8-1981    TSO Table D
66-1981      9-14-1981   TSO Table I
80-1981      10-12-1981  TSO Table B
                         709.01—
82-1981      10-26-1981  709.09,
                         709.99
89-1981      2-22-1982   TSO Table I
8-1982       1-25-1982   TSO Table E
9-1982       1-25-1982   TSO Table B
10-1982      1-25-1982   TSO Table B
11-1982      1-25-1982   TSO Table B
12-1982      1-25-1982   TSO Table B
19-1982      3-8-1982    TSO Table D
22-1982      4-12-1982   TSO Table B
31-1982      4-12-1982   TSO Table D
41-1982      5-10-1982   165.15
42-1982      5-24-1982   TSO Table B
54-1982      7-12-1982   339.12
59-1982      9-13-1982   TSO Table I
74-1982      9-13-1982   TSO Table E
80-1982      11-8-1982   TSO Table I
86-1982      11-8-1982   TSO Table D
92-1982      12-13-1982  TSO Table C
95-1982      1-10-1983   TSO Table I
96-1982      1-10-1983   TSO Table I
2-1983       1-10-1983   TSO Table H
4-1983       1-24-1983   TSO Table D
6-1983       2-14-1983   TSO Table I
8-1983       1-24-1983   505.05
9-1983       2-14-1983   TSO Table D
20-1983      3-14-1983   TSO Table H
31-1983      3-28-1983   TSO Table E
35-1983      5-9-1983    TSO Table I
56-1983      7-11-1983   TSO Table I
68-1983      7-18-1983   TSO Table D
69-1983      7-25-1983   TSO Table D
77-1983      8-8-1983    TSO Table D
96-1983      9-26-1983   TSO Table B
100-1983     10-10-1983  143.01,
                         143.02
101-1983     10-10-1983  TSO Table D
102-1983     11-14-1983  TSO Table I
103-1983     10-24-1983  TSO Table H
107-1983     10-24-1983  TSO Table D
112-1983     11-28-1983  TSO Table B
114-1983     12-1-1983   TSO Table D
115-1983     12-12-1983  TSO Table D
116-1983     12-12-1983  TSO Table D
2-1984       1-9-1984    TSO Table D
4-1984       1-23-1984   165.11,
                         165.12
5-1984       1-23-1984   145.04
11-1984      2-13-1984   TSO Table D
                         Repeals
12-1984      4-9-1984    1133.45, 1153.07,
                         1171.15
13-1984      2-13-1984   TSO Table D
18-1984      2-13-1984   TSO Table D
19-1984      4-9-1984    Repealed by Ord. 2003-99
21-1984      2-27-1984   TSO Table F
31-1984      4-9-1984    181.15
36-1984      4-23-1984   TSO Table A
47-1984      7-9-1984    TSO Table I
60-1984      7-23-1984   TSO Table H
63-1984      7-23-1984   165.17
                         187.01,
65-1984      8-13-1984   187.03—
                         187.07,
                         187.99
70-1984      8-13-1984   TSO Table H
71-1984      9-24-1984   TSO Table I
72-1984      9-10-1984   TSO Table I
76-1984      8-27-1984   TSO Table H
77-1984      8-27-1984   TSO Table D
78-1984      9-15-1984   TSO Table D
84-1984      8-27-1984   TSO Table D
85-1984      9-15-1984   TSO Table B
97-1984      10-29-1984  TSO Table B
99-1984      10-22-1984  TSO Table D
101-1984     10-29-1984  TSO Table E
7-1985       3-11-1985   TSO Table I
                         Repeals
10-1985      3-25-1985   1147.01(e),
                         1148.01(f),
                         1149.01(f)
21-1985      4-8-1985    TSO Table D
23-1985      5-13-1985   TSO Table A
32-1985      6-10-1985   TSO Table B
34-1985      7-8-1985    TSO Table I
35-1985      7-8-1985    TSO Table I
41-1985      6-24-1985   TSO Table B
42-1985      6-24-1985   TSO Table B,
                         TSO Table E
43-1985      7-8-1985    TSO Table H
44-1985      7-25-1985   339.99
45-1985      7-8-1985    TSO Table D
46-1985      7-8-1985    145.05
51-1985      8-12-1985   TSO Table I
54-1985      8-12-1985   TSO Table D
                         717.01—
56-1985      8-12-1985   717.22,
                         717.99
57-1985      8-12-1985   TSO Table F
66-1985      9-9-1985    549.09
69-1985      9-9-1985    509.10
72-1985      9-23-1985   TSO Table D
79-1985      11-25-1985  Repealed by Ord. 2003-99
80-1985      10-28-1985  TSO Table E
101-1985     12-23-1985  TSO Table D
86-2         1-13-1986   TSO Table H
86-6         1-13-1986   TSO Table B
86-16        4-14-1986   TSO Table I
86-18        2-24-1986   TSO Table H
86-22        3-24-1986   TSO Table I
86-32        4-14-1986   TSO Table H
86-33        4-14-1986   TSO Table H
86-34        4-28-1986   TSO Table F
86-37        4-14-1986   151.01
86-38        4-14-1986   TSO Table D
86-43        6-9-1986    TSO Table I
86-45        4-28-1986   501.13
86-48        4-28-1986   TSO Table D
86-55        6-9-1986    TSO Table H
86-62        6-23-1986   351.16
86-65        6-23-1986   TSO Table D
86-68        7-28-1986   TSO Table D
86-87        9-5-1986    TSO Table H
86-89        9-8-1986    TSO Table D
86-98        10-27-1986  TSO Table H
86-101       11-10-1986  TSO Table H
86-122       1-12-1987   TSO Table I
86-112       2-9-1987    TSO Table I
86-113       2-9-1987    TSO Table I
86-114       2-9-1987    TSO Table I
87-2         1-9-1987    TSO Table H
87-7         6-8-1987    TSO Table I
87-8         1-12-1987   TSO Table D
87-9         1-12-1987   TSO Table D
87-14        3-23-1987   TSO Table I
87-21        4-27-1987   TSO Table I
87-26        3-23-1987   Repealed by Ord. 2001-26
1987-27      4-27-1987   963.23
87-28        4-13-1987   TSO Table D
87-29        4-13-1987   133.03
87-46        6-8-1987    TSO Table I
87-49        6-22-1987   TSO Table I
87-52        5-11-1987   183.02
87-54        5-18-1987   TSO Table C
87-60        7-13-1987   TSO Table I
87-68        7-27-1987   TSO Table D
87-79        8-10-1987   TSO Table D
87-98        10-12-1987  305.04
87-100       10-26-1987  505.18
87-112       9-28-1987   TSO Table C
                         963.01,
87-125       10-26-1987  963.03—
                         963.20,
                         963.99
87-126       10-26-1987  TSO Table D
87-129       11-23-1958  Repeals 1151.01— 1151.02
87-130       11-23-1987  TSO Table I
87-131       11-23-1987  TSO Table I
87-133       11-23-1987  TSO Table I
87-134       10-26-1987  TSO Table E
87-143       11-23-1987  TSO Table D
87-148       12-14-1987  TSO Table D
88-2         1-11-1988   TSO Table H
88-4         1-11-1988   Repealed by Ord. 2001-26
88-8         2-8-1988    TSO Table I
88-10        1-25-1988   TSO Table D
1988-13      2-8-1988    963.23
                         1301.03,
                         1301.04,
                         1301.06,
8-17         2-8-1988    1301.08,
                         1301.09,
                         1301.10,
                         1301.99
88-23        3-14-1988   121.04,
                         525.15
88-35        4-11-1988   TSO Table I
88-36        3-28-1988   TSO Table D
88-40        4-11-1988   TSO Table D
88-41        4-11-1988   TSO Table D
88-44        4-25-1988   TSO Table D
88-51        5-9-1988    TSO Table D
88-56        5-23-1988   TSO Table H
88-70        6-27-1988   TSO Table D
88-91        8-8-1988    TSO Table I
88-95        7-25-1988   TSO Table H
88-99        8-8-1988    TSO Table H
88-101       8-8-1988    TSO Table D
88-102       8-8-1988    TSO Table D
88-103       8-8-1988    TSO Table D
88-104       9-12-1988   TSO Table I
88-107       9-12-1988   121.01
88-113       9-12-1988   TSO Table H
88-127       11-14-1988  TSO Table A
88-128       10-10-1988  TSO Table E
88-132       10-24-1988  TSO Table H
88-136       11-14-1988  TSO Table D
88-142       12-12-1988  TSO Table I
88-144       11-14-1988  TSO Table D
88-145       11-14-1988  TSO Table D
88-152       12-12-1988  TSO Table H
                         505.09,
                         511.01—
88-151       12-11-1989  511.17,
                         511.99,
                         TSO Table I
88-155       1-9-1989    TSO Table I
89-2         1-23-1989   TSO Table H
89-7         2-13-1989   TSO Table I
89-8         1-23-1989   TSO Table H
89-9         1-23-1989   TSO Table H
89-10        1-23-1989   TSO Table D
89-17        2-13-1989   165.18
89-18        3-13-1989   TSO Table I
89-19        3-13-1989   TSO Table I
89-21        2-13-1989   TSO Table E
89-36        3-13-1989   TSO Table D
89-37        4-24-1989   TSO Table I
89-39        3-27-1989   TSO Table H
89-41        6-26-1989   TSO Table I
89-44        3-27-1989   963.02
89-46        4-10-1989   TSO Table E
89-48        4-10-1989   TSO Table D
89-52        4-24-1989   TSO Table D
89-64        5-8-1989    TSO Table D
89-65        8-28-1989   TSO Table D
89-68        6-12-1989   TSO Table I
89-73        6-12-1989   TSO Table B
89-82        7-10-1989   1301.99
89-83        7-24-1989   TSO Table D
89-87        7-12-1989   TSO Table H
89-90        7-24-1989   Repealed by Ord. 2008-73
89-92        7-24-1989   TSO Table D
89-94        8-14-1989   TSO Table I
89-95        8-14-1989   TSO Table I
89-98        8-28-1989   TSO Table I
89-99        8-29-1989   TSO Table C
89-106       9-11-1989   TSO Table I
89-107       9-11-1989   TSO Table I
89-113       8-28-1989   TSO Table D
89-116       8-28-1989   121.04
89-119       9-11-1989   TSO Table D
89-120       9-11-1989   TSO Table D
89-121       9-11-1989   TSO Table D
89-124       9-25-1989   TSO Table H
89-137       10-23-1989  TSO Table B
89-145       11-13-1989  TSO Table H
89-146       11-13-1989   
                         303.08
89-148       12-28-1989  TSO Table F
89-152       11-27-1989  TSO Table C
89-153       11-27-1989  TSO Table D
89-154       11-27-1989  TSO Table D
89-159       12-11-1989  TSO Table D
89-160       12-11-1989  TSO Table D
89-161       12-11-1989  TSO Table D
89-168       12-28-1989  121.01
89-169       12-28-1989  149.01
89-170       12-28-1989  137.04
90-2         2-12-1990   333.03
90-3         1-22-1990   371.01
90-11        2-12-1990   TSO Table D
90-15        2-12-1990   TSO Table A
90-28        4-9-1990    TSO Table I
90-29        3-12-1990   TSO Table D
90-30        3-12-1990   TSO Table D
90-36        3-26-1990   TSO Table H
90-37        4-9-1990    TSO Table H
90-38        3-26-1990   TSO Table D
90-39        4-9-1990    TSO Table D
90-43        5-14-1990   911.01
90-45        4-9-1990    TSO Table D
90-52        5-14-1990   TSO Table I
                         905.01,
                         905.02,
                         905.99,
                         907.01,
                         907.02,
                         907.99,
                         909.01—
                         909.07,
                         909.99,
                         941.01,
                         941.015,
                         941.016,
                         941.04—
                         941.06,
                         941.09—
90-61        5-14-1990   941.15,
                         941.18,
                         941.99,
                         942.01,
                         942.015,
                         942.016,
                         942.03—
                         942.06,
                         942.09—
                         942.11,
                         942.13,
                         942.14,
                         942.18,
                         942.99,
                         943.01—
                         943.10,
                         943.99
90-67        5-14-1990   TSO Table D
90-69        6-11-1990   167.01—
                         167.03
90-72        6-25-1990   TSO Table D
90-77        7-9-1990    TSO Table D
90-82        8-13-1990   TSO Table D
                         941.04,
90-85        8-13-1990   942.04,
                         943.05
90-86        8-27-1990   TSO Table D
90-87        9-10-1990   TSO Table I
90-101       9-24-1990   TSO Table I
90-102       10-2-1990   TSO Table I
90-103       10-8-1990   TSO Table I
90-104       10-8-1990   Repealed by Ord. 2003-99
90-105       10-8-1990   331.41
90-107       9-24-1990   TSO Table D
90-110       10-8-1990   137.03
90-118       10-22-1990  121.06
90-124       10-8-1990   TSO Table D
90-125       10-8-1990   TSO Table D
90-126       10-8-1990   TSO Table D
90-128       11-12-1990  TSO Table I
                         941.045,
                         941.11,
90-130       10-22-1990  941.16,
                         941.17,
                         942.045,
                         942.17
90-135       11-12-1990  TSO Table D
90-137       11-12-1990  TSO Table D
90-138       11-12-1990  TSO Table D
90-139       12-10-1990  TSO Table I
90-148       2-11-1991   TSO Table B
91-4         1-14-1991   TSO Table D
91-5         1-14-1991   TSO Table D
91-6         1-14-1991   TSO Table H
91-7         1-14-1991   TSO Table D
91-8         2-25-1991   1301.05
91-10        1-28-1991   TSO Table D
91-12        2-11-1991   TSO Table G
91-14        2-11-1991   TSO Table D
91-15        2-11-1991   TSO Table D
91-16        2-25-1991   TSO Table D
91-18        2-11-1991   TSO Table A
91-20        2-11-1991   133.04
91-22        2-25-1991   941.06,
                         942.06
91-27        4-8-1991    TSO Table I
91-28        4-8-1991    TSO Table I
91-29        3-11-1991   TSO Table B
91-36        4-8-1991    333.03
91-38        4-8-1991    TSO Table D
91-41        4-8-1991    TSO Table B
91-49        5-13-1991   1301.08
91-50        5-13-1991   941.20,
                         942.20
91-51        5-13-1991   TSO Table D
91-52        5-13-1991   TSO Table D
91-57        6-10-1991   Repeals
                         1187.03(c); Repealed by Ord. 2003-99
91-60        5-13-1991   121.04
91-65        6-10-1991   TSO Table D
91-71        6-24-1991   TSO Table B
91-72        7-8-1991    TSO Table B
91-73        8-12-1991   TSO Table I
91-78        8-12-1991   TSO Table D
91-84        9-9-1991    TSO Table I
91-90        9-23-1991   943.07
91-91        9-9-1991    TSO Table D
91-96        9-23-1991   TSO Table B
91-97        11-11-1991  Repealed by Ord. 2003-99
91-104       10-14-1991  549.08
91-111       11-11-1991  165.19
91-113       11-25-1991  TSO Table D
91-114       11-25-1991  TSO Table D
91-115       11-25-1991  TSO Table B
91-116       11-25-1991  TSO Table D
91-127       12-9-1991   TSO Table D
91-128       12-9-1991   TSO Table D
91-129       12-9-1991   Repeals
                         121.05
92-4         1-13-1992   TSO Table D
92-12        2-10-1992   TSO Table H
92-14        2-10-1992   TSO Table D
92-19        2-24-1992   TSO Table E
92-22        3-23-1992   TSO Table D
92-23        3-9-1992    TSO Table D
92-24        4-13-1992   TSO Table I
92-30        4-27-1992   TSO Table D
92-33        4-27-1992   165.20
92-45        6-8-1992    TSO Table D
92-46        5-11-1992   TSO Table D
92-47        5-11-1992   TSO Table D
92-48        5-26-1992   942.08,
                         943.06
92-58        6-22-1992   TSO Table D
92-59        6-8-1992    TSO Table D
92-64        7-13-1992   TSO Table D
92-65        7-13-1992   TSO Table D
92-66        7-13-1992   TSO Table D
92-67        7-13-1992   TSO Table D
92-68        8-10-1992   TSO Table I
92-69        7-13-1992   TSO Table H
92-73        8-24-1992   TSO Table I
92-75        8-10-1992   TSO Table D
92-76        8-10-1992   TSO Table D
92-77        8-10-1992   TSO Table D
92-79        9-14-1992   TSO Table H
92-80        8-10-1992   TSO Table E
92-84        8-10-1992   TSO Table G
92-85        8-10-1992   TSO Table G
92-91        9-14-1992   TSO Table D
92-92        9-14-1992   TSO Table D
92-97        9-28-1992   TSO Table E
92-98        9-14-1992   TSO Table H
92-99        9-14-1992   TSO Table D
92-101       10-12-1992  TSO Table D
92-109       9-28-1992   965.03—
                         965.06
92-110       9-28-1992   Not codified
92-111       9-28-1992   TSO Table B
92-112       9-28-1992   TSO Table E
92-115       10-12-1992  TSO Table D
92-116       12-14-1992  TSO Table D
92-117       10-12-1992  TSO Table D
92-118       10-12-1992  TSO Table D
                         1501.01,
                         1501.12,
                         1501.99; Repeals
92-119       11-23-1992  1501.02,
                         1501.04,
                         1501.08,
                         1501.09,
                         1501.11
92-120       11-23-1992  Repeals
                         1301.03
92-127       12-14-1992  TSO Table I
92-128       12-14-1992  TSO Table I
92-129       11-23-1992  TSO Table D
92-130       12-14-1992  TSO Table D
92-133       1-11-1993   TSO Table I
92-136       12-28-1992  TSO Table D
92-137       12-28-1992  TSO Table D
92-138       12-28-1992  TSO Table D
92-140       12-14-1992  TSO Table D
93-3         1-11-1993   TSO Table H
93-9         1-25-1993   TSO Table B
93-12        3-22-1993   TSO Table I
93-13        2-8-1993    TSO Table D
93-14        2-22-1993   942.08; Repeals
                         942.08(d)
93-15        2-8-1993    TSO Table H
                         949.01—
93-17        2-22-1993   949.06,
                         949.08—
                         949.11
93-18        2-8-1993    TSO Table B
                         961.01,
93-31        3-22-1993   961.02,
                         961.04
93-35        4-12-1993   TSO Table D
93-42        4-25-1993   187.02
93-43        5-10-1993   TSO Table H
93-44        6-14-1993   TSO Table I
93-45        5-10-1993   TSO Table G
93-46        5-10-1993   TSO Table D
93-47        5-10-1993   TSO Table D
93-49        5-10-1993   TSO Table D
93-50        5-10-1993   TSO Table B
93-56        5-24-1993   TSO Table H
93-57        5-24-1993   TSO Table B
93-58        5-24-1993   TSO Table B
93-59        6-14-1993   TSO Table B
93-63        6-14-1993   TSO Table D
93-64        6-14-1993   TSO Table D
93-68        6-28-1993   TSO Table H
93-69        6-28-1993   TSO Table B
93-74        7-12-1993   TSO Table D
93-75        8-23-1993   TSO Table D
93-76        8-28-1993   TSO Table D
93-77        7-12-1993   949.02,
                         949.99
93-80        7-26-1993   941.06,
                         942.06
93-85        8-23-1993   TSO Table D
93-87        8-23-1993   TSO Table I
93-92        9-13-1993   TSO Table D
93-93        9-27-1993   TSO Table D
93-100       9-27-1993   TSO Table H
93-103       9-27-1993   TSO Table C
93-104       10-11-1993  TSO Table D
93-105       10-11-1993  TSO Table D
93-106       10-11-1993  TSO Table E
93-108       10-11-1993  TSO Table D
93-113       1-10-1994   TSO Table D
93-114       10-11-1993  TSO Table D
93-117       11-8-1993   TSO Table I
93-118       11-8-1993   TSO Table I
93-120       10-25-1993  TSO Table C
93-127       11-22-1993  TSO Table D
93-128       11-22-1993  TSO Table D
93-129       11-22-1993  TSO Table D
93-130       11-22-1993  TSO Table D
93-131       11-22-1993  TSO Table D
93-132       11-22-1993  TSO Table D
93-136       1-10-1994   TSO Table I
93-138       11-22-1993  TSO Table D
93-139       11-22-1993  TSO Table D
93-146       1-10-1994   TSO Table I
93-147       1-10-1994   TSO Table D
93-148       12-13-1993  TSO Table D
93-149       12-20-1993  TSO Table D
94-1         1-10-1994   721.01—
                         721.04
94-2         1-10-1994   TSO Table D
94-3         1-10-1994   TSO Table D
94-4         1-10-1994   TSO Table D
94-7         2-28-1994   145.08
94-13        5-9-1994    TSO Table I
94-14        5-9-1994    TSO Table D
94-15        2-14-1994   TSO Table D
94-20        2-14-1994   TSO Table D
94-25        2-28-1994   TSO Table B
94-29        2-28-1994   141.11
94-30        3-14-1994   TSO Table B
94-35        4-11-1994   TSO Table I
94-43        5-23-1994   TSO Table I
94-44        5-9-1994    TSO Table I
94-45        4-25-1994   TSO Table D
94-46        4-25-1994   TSO Table D
94-47        4-25-1994   TSO Table D
                         165.01—
94-48        4-25-1994   165.05,
                         165.08—
                         165.10
94-51        4-25-1994   TSO Table D
94-53        5-9-1994    TSO Table D
94-54        5-9-1994    TSO Table D
94-55        5-9-1994    TSO Table D
94-59        5-22-1994   TSO Table D
94-61        5-23-1994   TSO Table F
94-66        10-10-1994  TSO Table I
94-67        6-13-1994   TSO Table D
94-68        6-13-1994   TSO Table D
94-72        12-12-1994  Repealed by Ord. 2002-61
94-77        8-22-1994   TSO Table I
94-78        8-22-1994   TSO Table D
94-79        7-25-1994   TSO Table D
94-80        7-28-1994   TSO Table D
94-82        7-25-1994   TSO Table A
94-85        8-8-1994    TSO Table D
94-87        8-8-1994    TSO Table E
94-89        8-22-1994   TSO Table A
94-91        8-22-1994   TSO Table D
94-97        9-12-1994   TSO Table D
94-98        9-12-1994   TSO Table D
94-99        9-12-1994   TSO Table H
94-107       10-10-1994  TSO Table D
94-108       10-10-1994  TSO Table D
1994-110     11-14-1994  963.22
94-111       10-24-1994  TSO Table D
94-112       11-14-1994  TSO Table H
94-115       11-14-1994  TSO Table D
94-116       11-14-1994  TSO Table D
94-117       11-14-1994  TSO Table D
94-126       11-28-1994  Repealed by Ord. 2012-80
94-129       12-12-1994  TSO Table D
94-130       12-12-1994  TSO Table D
94-131       12-12-1994  TSO Table D
94-135       12-12-1994  Repealed by Ord. 2012-80
94-137       12-12-1994  943.06
94-138       12-12-1994  TSO Table D
95-1         1-9-1995    TSO Table D
95-2         1-9-1995    TSO Table D
95-3         1-9-1995    TSO Table D
95-5         1-9-1995    139.08
95-6         1-9-1995    139.09
95-8         2-13-1995   TSO Table D
95-9         1-23-1995   TSO Table D
95-15        2-13-1995   TSO Table H
95-16        3-13-1995   TSO Table I
95-17        3-13-1995   TSO Table I
95-18        2-13-1995   TSO Table D
95-19        2-13-1995   TSO Table D
95-27        2-27-1995   Repealed by Ord. 2001-26
95-28        3-27-1995   Repeals
                         1135.05(j)
95-32        3-13-1995   TSO Table D
95-36        4-10-1995   TSO Table D
95-37        4-10-1995   TSO Table D
95-44        5-8-1995    TSO Table D
95-45        5-8-1995    TSO Table D
95-46        5-8-1995    TSO Table D
95-47        6-12-1995   TSO Table I
95-48        6-12-1995   TSO Table D
95-49        7-10-1995   TSO Table I
95-50        7-10-1995   TSO Table D
95-54        6-12-1995   TSO Table D
95-56        6-12-1995   TSO Table D
95-67        7-10-1995   TSO Table G
95-75        8-14-1995   TSO Table D
95-76        8-14-1995   TSO Table D
95-77        8-14-1995   TSO Table D
95-83        12-11-1995  Repealed by Ord. 2017-67
95-84        8-28-1995   TSO Table B
95-85        8-28-1995   TSO Table B
95-91        8-28-1995   TSO Table B
95-96        9-11-1995   TSO Table D
95-97        9-11-1995   TSO Table D
95-98        9-11-1995   TSO Table D
95-103       9-25-1995   TSO Table D
95-111       10-23-1995  TSO Table D
95-112       10-23-1995  TSO Table D
95-113       10-9-1995   TSO Table D
95-114       10-9-1995   TSO Table D
95-115       10-9-1995   TSO Table D
95-118       10-9-1995   TSO Table D
95-120       10-23-1995  TSO Table D
95-128       11-13-1995  Repealed by Ord. 2001-26
95-129       11-13-1995  TSO Table D
95-130       11-13-1995  TSO Table D
95-133       11-13-1995  143.03
95-137       11-27-1995  TSO Table D
95-138       11-27-1995  TSO Table D
95-139       11-27-1995  TSO Table D
95-140       11-27-1995  TSO Table D
95-143       12-11-1995  TSO Table H
95-144       12-11-1995  TSO Table H
95-145       12-11-1995  TSO Table D
95-146       12-11-1995  TSO Table D
95-147       12-11-1995  TSO Table D
95-150       12-11-1995  TSO Table E
95-151       12-11-1995  TSO Table E
95-155       12-11-1995  TSO Table B
96-1         1-8-1996    TSO Table H
96-2         1-8-1996    TSO Table D
96-3         1-8-1996    TSO Table D
96-4         1-8-1996    TSO Table D
96-5         1-8-1996    TSO Table D
96-6         1-8-1996    TSO Table D
96-7         1-8-1996    TSO Table D
96-9         1-8-1996    Repealed by Ord. 2017-67
96-13        1-22-1996   TSO Table D
96-14        1-22-1996   TSO Table D
96-15        1-22-1996   TSO Table D
96-16        1-22-1996   TSO Table D
96-17        1-22-1996   TSO Table D
96-18        1-22-1996   TSO Table D
96-19        1-22-1996   TSO Table D
96-20        1-22-1996   TSO Table D
96-22        2-12-1996   TSO Table D
96-23        2-12-1996   TSO Table D
96-24        2-12-1996   TSO Table D
96-25        2-12-1996   TSO Table D
96-26        2-12-1996   139.11
96-27        2-12-1996   141.05
96-28        2-12-1996   151.03
96-29        2-12-1996   145.10
96-30        2-12-1996   139.10
96-34        3-11-1996   TSO Table I
96-43        4-8-1996    TSO Table I
96-50        4-8-1996    TSO Table D
96-52        5-13-1996   TSO Table I
96-57        4-22-1996   TSO Table D
96-62        5-13-1996   TSO Table D
96-64        6-10-1996   TSO Table I
96-69        5-28-1996   TSO Table D
96-71        6-10-1996   TSO Table D
96-74        6-10-1996   133.02
96-77        6-24-1996   165.04
96-78        6-10-1996   TSO Table D
96-91        6-24-1996   941.20,
                         942.20
96-93        7-8-1996    TSO Table H
96-94        7-8-1996    TSO Table D
96-95        7-22-1996   TSO Table D
96-96        7-8-1996    TSO Table D
96-97        7-8-1996    TSO Table D
96-98        7-8-1996    TSO Table D
96-99        7-8-1996    TSO Table D
96-100       8-12-1996   TSO Table I
96-101       8-12-1996   TSO Table I
96-104       7-22-1996   TSO Table D
96-105       7-22-1996   TSO Table D
96-106       7-22-1996   TSO Table D
96-107       7-22-1996   TSO Table D
96-110       8-12-1996   TSO Table D
96-111       8-12-1996   TSO Table D
96-112       8-12-1996   TSO Table D
96-113       8-12-1996   TSO Table D
96-114       8-12-1996   TSO Table D
96-115       8-12-1996   TSO Table D
96-116       9-9-1996    TSO Table D
96-121       8-26-1996   TSO Table D
96-122       8-26-1996   TSO Table D
96-126       9-23-1996   TSO Table D
96-127       9-9-1996    TSO Table D
96-128       9-9-1996    TSO Table D
96-130       9-9-1996    137.12
96-133       9-23-1996   137.07
96-141       10-14-1996  TSO Table D
96-142       10-14-1996  TSO Table D
96-143       10-14-1996  TSO Table D
96-144       10-14-1996  TSO Table D
96-145       10-14-1996  TSO Table D
96-146       11-11-1996  TSO Table I
96-147       10-28-1996  TSO Table D
96-157       11-25-1996  TSO Table D
96-158       11-11-1996  TSO Table D
96-159       11-11-1996  TSO Table D
96-160       11-11-1996  TSO Table D
96-161       11-11-1996  TSO Table D
96-162       12-9-1996   TSO Table D
96-163       12-9-1996   TSO Table I
96-166       11-11-1996  TSO Table H
96-168       11-25-1996  TSO Table H
96-174       1-13-1997   TSO Table I
96-175       12-9-1996   TSO Table D
96-176       12-9-1996   TSO Table D
96-177       12-9-1996   TSO Table D
1996-179     12-16-1996  963.22
97-1         1-13-1997   TSO Table D
97-2         1-13-1997   TSO Table D
97-3         1-13-1997   TSO Table D
97-4         1-13-1997   TSO Table H
97-5         1-13-1997   TSO Table H
97-10        1-27-1997   TSO Table E
97-6         1-13-1997   TSO Table H
97-12        1-27-1997   145.08
97-13        1-27-1997   141.09
97-15        1-27-1997   141.10
97-17        1-27-1997   TSO Table F
97-20        2-10-1997   TSO Table D
97-21        2-10-1997   TSO Table D
97-22        3-10-1997   TSO Table D
97-23        3-10-1997   TSO Table I
97-37        3-10-1997   TSO Table D
97-38        3-10-1997   TSO Table D
97-39        4-14-1997   TSO Table I
97-42        4-28-1997   TSO Table D
1997-46      3-24-1997   963.23
97-47        4-14-1997   TSO Table D
97-48        4-14-1997   TSO Table D
97-49        4-14-1997   TSO Table D
97-50        5-12-1997   TSO Table D
97-51        4-14-1997   TSO Table D
97-60        4-28-1997   TSO Table H
97-64        4-28-1997   TSO Table D
97-66        5-12-1997   TSO Table E
97-67        5-12-1997   TSO Table D
97-68        6-9-1997    TSO Table I
97-69        6-9-1997    TSO Table I
97-71        6-9-1997    TSO Table I
97-72        5-12-1997   TSO Table D
97-75        5-27-1997   1301.01,
                         1301.02
97-76        5-27-1997   TSO Table D
97-77        5-27-1997   TSO Table D
97-80        6-23-1997   TSO Table D
97-81        6-23-1997   TSO Table D
97-84        6-23-1997   TSO Table H
97-87        8-11-1997   TSO Table I
97-89        7-28-1997   TSO Table D
97-90        7-28-1997   TSO Table H
97-98        8-11-1997   TSO Table D
97-99        9-22-1997   TSO Table I
96-164       3-10-1997   TSO Table D
96-165       3-10-1997   TSO Table I
97-101       9-8-1997    TSO Table I
97-103       10-13-1997  TSO Table D
97-107       9-8-1997    TSO Table D
97-112       10-13-1997  TSO Table I
97-114       9-22-1997   TSO Table D
97-116       10-13-1997  TSO Table I
97-120       9-22-1997   TSO Table D
97-121       10-13-1997  TSO Table H
97-122       10-13-1997  TSO Table D
97-123       10-13-1997  TSO Table D
97-124       10-13-1997  TSO Table D
97-125       10-13-1997  TSO Table D
97-126       10-13-1997  TSO Table D
97-127       1-13-1997   TSO Table D
97-131       10-27-1997  TSO Table D
97-138       11-10-1997  TSO Table D
97-140       11-24-1997  TSO Table D
1997-146     11-24-1997  963.22
97-147       12-8-1997   TSO Table D
97-149       12-8-1997   TSO Table D
97-150       12-8-1997   TSO Table D
97-151       12-8-1997   TSO Table D
97-153       1-12-1998   TSO Table I
98-3         1-12-1998   139.01
98-4         1-12-1998   141.05
98-5         1-12-1998   151.04
98-7         1-12-1998   TSO Table D
98-18        2-9-1998    TSO Table D
98-19        3-9-1998    TSO Table I
98-23        2-23-1998   TSO Table H
98-24        2-23-1998   TSO Table D
98-27        2-23-1998   TSO Table F
98-36        4-13-1998   TSO Table I
98-45        5-11-1998   TSO Table I
98-47        4-13-1998   TSO Table D
98-49        4-13-1998   TSO Table D
98-50        4-13-1998   TSO Table D
98-51        4-13-1998   TSO Table D
98-53        4-13-1998   TSO Table D
98-61        4-27-1998   TSO Table C
98-70        6-22-1998   TSO Table I
98-71        6-8-1998    TSO Table D
98-72        6-8-1998    TSO Table D
98-73        6-8-1998    TSO Table D
98-74        6-8-1998    TSO Table D
98-76        7-13-1998   TSO Table I
98-80        6-22-1998   TSO Table D
98-83        7-13-1998   TSO Table D
98-84        7-13-1998   TSO Table D
98-85        7-13-1998   TSO Table D
98-88        7-13-1998   TSO Table D
98-103       7-27-1998   TSO Table B
                         1121.01,
                         1121.02,
                         1131.01—
                         1131.06,
                         1135.03,
                         1135.05—
                         1135.10,
                         1135.99,
                         1137.01,
                         1137.02,
                         1137.05,
                         1141.01—
                         1141.03,
                         1141.05—
                         1141.09,
                         1145.01—
                         1145.06,
                         1147.01—
                         1147.07,
                         1148.01,
                         1148.02,
                         1148.04—
                         1148.06,
                         1149.01,
                         1149.02,
                         1149.04,
                         1149.05,
                         1153.01,
                         1153.02,
                         1153.04—
                         1153.06,
                         1155.01—
                         1155.06,
                         1157.01—
                         1157.03,
                         1157.06—
                         1157.08,
                         1159.01,
98-104       9-14-1998   1159.02,
                         1159.08,
                         1160.01—
                         1160.05,
                         1161.01—
                         1161.05,
                         1161.08—
                         1161.12,
                         1161.14—
                         1161.18,
                         1162.01—
                         1162.04,
                         1163.01—
                         1163.03,
                         1163.05,
                         1165.01—
                         1165.03,
                         1171.02—
                         1171.05,
                         1171.08—
                         1171.15,
                         1172.01—
                         1172.10,
                         1173.01—
                         1173.13,
                         1175.01—
                         1175.04,
                         1175.06,
                         1175.08,
                         1177.01—
                         1177.05,
                         1181.01,
                         1181.02,
                         1183.01—
                         1183.05,
                         1185.01,
                         1185.02,
                         1188.01—
                         1188.07
98-115       8-24-1998   TSO Table D
98-116       8-24-1998   TSO Table D
98-117       8-24-1998   TSO Table D
98-120       8-24-1998   TSO Table E
98-121       9-14-1998   TSO Table H
98-122       9-14-1998   TSO Table D
98-123       9-14-1998   TSO Table D
98-127       9-14-1998   TSO Table E
98-132       9-28-1998   TSO Table H
98-134       10-12-1998  TSO Table H
98-141       10-12-1998  TSO Table D
98-143       11-9-1998   TSO Table I
98-144       10-12-1998  TSO Table D
98-145       10-12-1998  TSO Table D
98-146       10-12-1998  TSO Table D
98-153       10-26-1998  TSO Table D
98-154       10-26-1998  TSO Table D
98-155       10-26-1998  TSO Table D
98-161       11-9-1998   TSO Table D
98-162       11-9-1998   TSO Table D
98-163       11-9-1998   TSO Table D
98-171       11-23-1998  TSO Table D
98-172       11-23-1998  TSO Table D
98-173       11-23-1998  TSO Table D
98-174       11-23-1998  TSO Table D
1998-181     11-23-1998  963.22
98-186       1-11-1999   TSO Table I
98-188       12-14-1998  TSO Table D
98-189       12-14-1998  TSO Table D
98-190       12-14-1998  TSO Table H
98-204       12-14-1998  TSO Table F
98-209       - -1998     Not codified
98-210       12-14-1998  Repealed by Ord. 2016-100
99-2         1-11-1999   TSO Table D
99-10        1-11-1999   145.08
99-11        3-22-1999   TSO Table D
99-21        2-8-1999    TSO Table D
99-22        2-8-1999    TSO Table D
99-23        2-8-1999    TSO Table D
99-26        3-8-1999    TSO Table I
99-28        3-8-1999    TSO Table I
99-36        2-8-1999    TSO Table E
99-37        2-22-1999   TSO Table D
99-38        2-22-1999   TSO Table D
99-44        2-22-1999   141.07
99-45        3-8-1999    TSO Table D
99-46        3-8-1999    TSO Table D
99-47        4-12-1999   TSO Table I
                         1147.01,
                         1147.02,
99-48        4-12-1999   1147.03,
                         1147.05,
                         TSO Table I
99-54        3-22-1999   TSO Table D
99-56        4-12-1999   TSO Table D
                         145.07,
                         509.11,
                         941.02,
                         941.04,
                         941.07,
99-58        4-12-1999   941.10,
                         942.03,
                         942.04,
                         942.08,
                         942.10,
                         1301.05; Repeals 707.05(b)
                         931.01—
99-66        4-26-1999   931.06,
                         931.99
99-67        5-10-1999   TSO Table B
99-68        5-10-1999   TSO Table D
99-69        5-10-1999   TSO Table D
99-72        5-24-1999   TSO Table D
99-73        5-24-1999   TSO Table D
99-74        5-24-1999   TSO Table D
99-75        5-24-1999   TSO Table D
99-77        6-28-1999   TSO Table I
99-78        6-28-1999   TSO Table I
99-79        6-14-1999   TSO Table D
99-81        6-14-1999   TSO Table D
99-82        6-14-1999   TSO Table B
99-83        6-14-1999   TSO Table B
99-84        6-14-1999   TSO Table B
99-85        6-14-1999   TSO Table B
99-96        7-12-1999   TSO Table D
99-97        7-12-1999   TSO Table D
99-98        7-12-1999   TSO Table D
99-99        7-12-1999   TSO Table D
99-100       7-26-1999   TSO Table D
99-101       7-12-1999   TSO Table D
99-102       7-26-1999   TSO Table D
99-103       7-26-1999   TSO Table D
99-108       8-9-1999    TSO Table D
99-109       8-9-1999    TSO Table D
99-110       8-9-1999    TSO Table D
99-111       8-9-1999    TSO Table D
99-112       8-9-1999    TSO Table D
99-113       8-9-1999    TSO Table D
99-114       8-9-1999    TSO Table D
99-119       9-13-1999   TSO Table D
99-125       9-13-1999   TSO Table D
99-126       9-13-1999   TSO Table D
99-127       9-13-1999   TSO Table D
99-128       9-27-1999   TSO Table D
99-129       9-13-1999   TSO Table D
99-130       9-13-1999   TSO Table D
99-131       10-11-1999  TSO Table I
                         1133.166,
                         1133.170,
                         1147.05,
                         1148.04,
                         1149.04,
                         1157.03,
                         1159.02,
                         1159.08,
                         1161.07,
                         1161.08,
                         1161.12,
                         1162.04,
                         1163.02,
                         1165.02,
99-132       10-11-1999  1171.01,
                         1171.07,
                         1171.16,
                         1172.02,
                         1172.05,
                         1172.06,
                         1172.10,
                         1173.09,
                         1173.10,
                         1173.12,
                         1175.05,
                         1181.01,
                         1185.01—
                         1188.04,
                         1188.07,
                         App. C; (1187.49 and 1187.50 Repealed by Ord. 2009-99)
99-134       9-13-1999   337.30
99-138       9-13-1999   137.11,
                         137.13
99-143       9-27-1999   TSO Table D
99-144       9-27-1999   TSO Table D
99-145       9-27-1999   TSO Table D
99-146       9-27-1999   TSO Table D
99-147       9-27-1999   TSO Table D
99-149       10-11-1999  TSO Table D
99-150       10-11-1999  TSO Table D
99-151       10-11-1999  TSO Table D
99-152       10-11-1999  TSO Table D
99-153       10-11-1999  TSO Table D
99-157       10-11-1999  TSO Table E
99-165       10-11-1999  TSO Table E
99-172       10-25-1999  TSO Table D
99-173       10-25-1999  TSO Table D
99-179       10-25-1999  TSO Table H
99-183       11-8-1999   TSO Table D
99-190       11-8-1999   165.21
1999-192     11-22-1999  963.22
99-194       11-22-1999  TSO Table E
99-195       11-22-1999  TSO Table E
99-196       11-22-1999  TSO Table E
99-197       11-22-1999  TSO Table E
99-198       11-22-1999  TSO Table E
99-199       11-22-1999  TSO Table E
99-200       11-22-1999  TSO Table E
99-201       11-22-1999  TSO Table E
99-202       12-13-1999  TSO Table D
99-203       12-13-1999  TSO Table D
99-204       12-13-1999  TSO Table D
99-205       12-13-1999  TSO Table D
                         1101.01—
                         1101.08,
                         1103.01—
                         1103.03,
                         1105.01—
                         1105.08,
                         1107.01—
                         1107.04,
                         1109.01—
                         1109.13,
                         1110.01—
                         1110.04,
                         1111.01—
                         1111.08,
                         1113.01—
                         1113.09,
                         1114.01—
                         1114.04,
                         1115.01—
                         1115.07,
99-207       1-10-2000   1116.01—
                         1116.17,
                         1117.01—
                         1117.10,
                         1117.99,
                         1118.01—
                         1118.03,
                         1118.99,
                         1119.01—
                         1119.06,
                         1119.99,
                         1133.01—
                         1133.65,
                         1133.67—
                         1133.164,
                         1133.167—
                         1133.169,
                         1133.171—
                         1133.173,
                         1135.01,
                         1135.02
99-220       12-13-1999  TSO Table E
2000-3       1-10-2000   TSO Table D
2000-4       1-10-2000   TSO Table D
2000-5       1-10-2000   TSO Table B
2000-6       1-10-2000   TSO Table D
2000-7       1-10-2000   151.08
2000-8       1-10-2000   151.09
2000-13      1-24-2000   TSO Table D
2000-15      1-24-2000   137.10
2000-21      2-14-2000   TSO Table H
2000-26      3-13-2000   TSO Table D
2000-27      4-10-2000   TSO Table I
2000-28      4-10-2000   TSO Table I
2000-29      3-13-2000   TSO Table F
2000-35      3-27-2000   TSO Table D
2000-36      3-27-2000   TSO Table F
2000-38      3-27-2000   TSO Table B
2000-41      4-10-2000   TSO Table D
00-43        4-10-2000   961.04
2000-44      4-10-2000   TSO Table E
2000-47      4-24-2000   TSO Table D
2000-48      4-24-2000   TSO Table D
2000-49      4-24-2000   TSO Table D
2000-55      4-24-2000   TSO Table E
2000-57      5-8-2000    TSO Table D
2000-59      5-8-2000    TSO Table E
2000-62      5-8-2000    133.021
2000-63      5-22-2000   TSO Table D
2000-65      6-12-2000   TSO Table D
2000-66      5-22-2000   TSO Table E
2000-67      5-22-2000   145.08
2000-71      5-22-2000   TSO Table F
2000-72      6-12-2000   TSO Table D
2000-73      6-12-2000   TSO Table D
2000-74      6-12-2000   TSO Table D
2000-75      6-12-2000   TSO Table D
2000-77      6-12-2000   TSO Table D
2000-85      6-26-2000   TSO Table D
2000-86      6-26-2000   TSO Table D
2000-95      7-24-2000   TSO Table D
2000-96      7-24-2000   TSO Table D
2000-97      7-24-2000   TSO Table D
                         165.03,
00-105       7-24-2000   165.06,
                         165.07,
                         165.09
2000-109     8-14-2000   TSO Table E
2000-110     8-14-2000   TSO Table D
2000-120     8-28-2000   TSO Table D
2000-121     8-28-2000   TSO Table D
2000-122     8-28-2000   TSO Table E
2000-127     9-10-2000   TSO Table D
2000-128     10-9-2000   TSO Table I
2000-129     10-9-2000   TSO Table I
2000-130     9-10-2000   TSO Table B
2000-131     9-10-2000   TSO Table B
00-134       9-25-2000   Repealed by Ord. 2017-67
2000-143     9-25-2000   139.02
2000-147     10-9-2000   TSO Table D
2000-148     10-9-2000   TSO Table D
2000-149     10-9-2000   TSO Table D
2000-150     10-9-2000   TSO Table B
2000-151     10-9-2000   TSO Table D
2000-159     10-23-2000  TSO Table D
2000-160     10-23-2000  TSO Table D
2000-166     10-23-2000  TSO Table E
2000-168     11-13-2000  TSO Table D
2000-171     11-13-2000  TSO Table E
2000-172     11-13-2000  TSO Table E
2000-177     12-11-2000  TSO Table D
2000-178     11-27-2000  TSO Table D
2000-179     11-27-2000  TSO Table D
2000-180     1-8-2001    TSO Table I
2000-184     11-27-2000  963.22
2000-189     12-11-2000  TSO Table D
2000-190     12-11-2000  TSO Table D
2000-205     12-11-2000  TSO Table D
2000-192     12-11-2000  TSO Table D
2000-193     12-11-2000  TSO Table D
2000-194     12-11-2000  TSO Table D
2000-195     12-11-2000  TSO Table D
2000-196     12-11-2000  TSO Table D
2000-207     12-11-2000  TSO Table E
2000-208     12-11-2000  TSO Table E
2000-209     12-11-2000  TSO Table E
2001-01      1-8-2001    TSO Table D
2001-02      1-8-2001    TSO Table D
2001-03      2-12-2001   Not codified
                         1133.03,
2001-04      2-12-2001   1133.164—
                         1133.173,
                         1135.04
2001-05      1-8-2001    TSO Table B
2001-06      1-8-2001    Not codified
2001-07      1-8-2001    Not codified
2001-08      1-8-2001    Not codified
2001-09      1-8-2001    Not codified
2001-10      1-8-2001    Not codified
2001-11      1-8-2001    Not codified
2001-12      1-22-2001   TSO Table H
2001-13      1-22-2001   TSO Table H
2001-14      1-22-2001   TSO Table H
2001-15      1-22-2001   TSO Table H
2001-16      1-22-2001   Not codified
2001-17      1-22-2001   Not codified
2001-18      1-22-2001   Not codified
2001-19      1-22-2001   Not codified
2001-20      1-22-2001   Not codified
2001-21      1-22-2001   Not codified
2001-22      1-22-2001   175.02
2001-23      1-22-2001   133.023
2001-24      1-22-2001   133.024
2001-25      1-22-2001   Not codified
                         1105.03,
                         1113.04,
                         1135.01, (
2001-26      2-26-2001   1169.01—
                         1169.21,
                         1169.99; Repealed by Ord. 2010-110); Rescinding Ch.
                         1305
2001-27      2-12-2001   TSO Table D
2001-28      2-12-2001   TSO Table D
2001-29      2-12-2001   TSO Table B
2001-30      2-12-2001   145.08
2001-31      2-12-2001   145.10
2001-32      2-12-2001   141.08
2001-33      2-12-2001   Not codified
2001-34      2-12-2001   Not codified
2001-35      2-12-2001   Not codified
2001-36      2-12-2001   Not codified
2001-37      2-26-2001   TSO Table H
2001-38      2-26-2001   TSO Table H
2001-39      2-26-2001   Not codified
2001-40      3-12-2001   TSO Table D
2001-41      3-12-2001   Not codified
2001-42      3-12-2001   Not codified
2001-43      3-26-2001   TSO Table B
2001-44      3-26-2001   Not codified
2001-45      3-26-2001   Not codified
2001-46      3-26-2001   Not codified
2001-47      3-26-2001   TSO Table D
2001-48      3-26-2001   TSO Table D
2001-49      3-26-2001   Not codified
2001-50      3-26-2001   Not codified
2001-51      3-26-2001   Not codified
2001-52      4-9-2001    TSO Table D
2001-53      4-9-2001    TSO Table D
2001-54      4-9-2001    TSO Table D
2001-55      4-9-2001    Not codified
2001-56      4-9-2001    TSO Table B
2001-57      4-9-2001    TSO Table E; Repealed by Ord. 2001-86
2001-58      4-9-2001    TSO Table E
2001-59      4-9-2001    TSO Table E
2001-60      4-9-2001    Not codified
2001-61      4-23-2001   951.01—
                         951.08
2001-62      4-23-2001   Not codified
2001-63      4-23-2001   Not codified
2001-64      4-23-2001   Not codified
2001-65      4-23-2001   Not codified
2001-66      4-23-2001   TSO Table B
2001-68      4-23-2001   TSO Table E
2001-69      4-23-2001   TSO Table E; Repealed by Ord. 2001-87
2001-70      4-23-2001   TSO Table E
2001-73      4-23-2001   TSO Table D
2001-74      4-23-2001   TSO Table D
2001-75      4-23-2001   Not codified
2001-76      5-14-2001   Not codified
2001-77      5-14-2001   Not codified
2001-78      5-14-2001   Not codified
2001-79      5-14-2001   Not codified
2001-80      5-14-2001   Not codified
2001-81      5-14-2001   Not codified
2001-82      5-14-2001   Not codified
2001-83      5-14-2001   TSO Table B
2001-84      5-14-2001   TSO Table E
2001-85      5-14-2001   TSO Table E
2001-86      5-14-2001   TSO Table E; Repeals Ord. 2001- 57
2001-87      5-14-2001   TSO Table E; Repeals Ord. 2001- 69
2001-88      5-14-2001   TSO Table E; Repeals Ord. 2001- 68
2001-89      5-14-2001   TSO Table E; Repeals Ord. 2001- 70
2001-90      5-14-2001   TSO Table B
2001-91      5-14-2001   TSO Table E
                         942.03,
2001-92      5-14-2001   942.08,
                         961.04
2001-93      5-14-2001   TSO Table I
2001-94      5-14-2001   Not codified
2001-95      7-23-2001   TSO Table I
2001-96      6-25-2001   TSO Table D
2001-97      6-25-2001   TSO Table D
2001-98      6-25-2001   TSO Table D
2001-99      6-25-2001   TSO Table D
2001-100     6-25-2001   TSO Table D
2001-101     6-25-2001   TSO Table D
2001-102     6-25-2001   TSO Table D
2001-103     6-25-2001   TSO Table B
2001-104     8-13-2001   Not codified
2001-105     6-25-2001   Not codified
2001-106     7-9-2001    Not codified
2001-107     6-25-2001   Not codified
2001-108     6-25-2001   Not codified
2001-109     6-25-2001   Not codified
2001-110     6-25-2001   Not codified
2001-111     6-25-2001   Not codified
2001-112     6-25-2001   Not codified
2001-113     6-25-2001   Not codified
2001-114     6-25-2001   Not codified
2001-115     6-25-2001   Not codified
2001-116     6-25-2001   Not codified
2001-117     6-25-2001   Not codified
2001-118     6-25-2001   Not codified
2001-119     6-25-2001   Not codified
2001-120     6-25-2001   TSO Table E
2001-121     6-25-2001   Not codified
2001-122     6-25-2001   Not codified
2001-123     6-25-2001   Not codified
2001-124     6-25-2001   Not codified
2001-125     6-25-2001   Not codified
2001-126     7-9-2001    Not codified
2001-127     7-9-2001    Not codified
2001-128     7-9-2001    Not codified
2001-130     8-13-2001   Not codified
2001-131     7-23-2001   151.07
2001-132     7-23-2001   TSO Table E
2001-133     7-23-2001   Not codified
2001-134     8-13-2001   Not codified
2001-135     7-23-2001   Not codified
2001-136     7-23-2001   Not codified
2001-137     7-23-2001   Not codified
2001-138     7-23-2001   Not codified
2001-139     7-23-2001   Not codified
2001-140     7-23-2001   Not codified
2001-141     7-23-2001   Not codified
2001-142     7-23-2001   Not codified
2001-143     7-23-2001   Not codified
2001-144     7-23-2001   Not codified
2001-145     8-13-2001   TSO Table H
2001-146     8-13-2001   TSO Table D
2001-147     8-13-2001   Not codified
2001-148     7-13-2001   Not codified
2001-149     8-13-2001   Repealed by Ord. 2017-67
2001-150     9-10-2001   Not codified
2001-151     8-13-2001   Not codified
2001-152     8-13-2001   Not codified
2001-153     8-27-2001   Not codified
2001-154     8-27-2001   Not codified
2001-155     8-27-2001   TSO Table H
2001-156     8-27-2001   Not codified
2001-157     8-27-2001   TSO Table D
2001-158     8-27-2001   TSO Table D
2001-159     8-27-2001   TSO Table D
2001-160     8-27-2001   TSO Table D
2001-161     8-27-2001   Not codified
2001-162     8-27-2001   Not codified
2001-163     8-27-2001   Not codified
2001-164     8-27-2001   Not codified
2001-165     8-27-2001   Not codified
2001-166     6-27-2001   Not codified
2001-167     8-27-2001   TSO Table D
2001-168     9-10-2001   TSO Table D
2001-169     9-10-2001   TSO Table G
2001-170     9-10-2001   Not codified
2001-171     9-10-2001   Not codified
2001-172     9-10-2001   Not codified
2001-173     9-24-2001   Not codified
2001-174     9-24-2001   Not codified
2001-175     9-24-2001   139.04
2001-176     10-8-2001   Not codified
2001-177     10-8-2001   TSO Table D
2001-178     10-22-2001  TSO Table H
2001-179     10-22-2001  TSO Table H
2001-180     10-22-2001  TSO Table H
2001-181     10-22-2001  Not codified
2001-182     10-22-2001  Not codified
2001-183     10-22-2001  Not codified
2001-184     10-22-2001  Not codified
2001-185     11-26-2001  Not codified
2001-186     11-26-2001  Not codified; Repealed by Ord. 2002-14
2001-187     11-12-2001  Not codified
2001-188     11-12-2001  TSO Table E
2001-189     11-12-2001  121.01
2001-190     11-12-2001  Not codified
2001-191     11-12-2001  Not codified
2001-192     11-12-2001  145.08
2001-193     11-12-2001  Not codified
2001-194     11-12-2001  Not codified
2001-195     11-12-2001  Not codified
2001-196     11-26-2001  TSO Table D
2001-197     11-26-2001  TSO Table D
2001-198     11-26-2001  TSO Table D
2001-199     11-26-2001  TSO Table D
2001-200     11-26-2001  Not codified
2001-201     11-26-2001  Not codified
2001-202     11-26-2001  Not codified
2001-203     11-26-2001  Not codified
2001-204     11-26-2001  Not codified
2001-205     11-26-2001  Not codified
2001-207     11-26-2001  Not codified
2001-208     11-26-2001  Not codified
2001-209     11-26-2001  Not codified
2001-210     11-26-2001  Not codified
2001-211     11-26-2001  Not codified
2001-212     11-26-2001  Not codified
2001-213     12-10-2001  TSO Table B,
                         TSO Table H
2001-214     12-10-2001  TSO Table H
2001-215     12-10-2001  Not codified
2001-216     12-10-2001  Not codified
2001-217     12-10-2001  TSO Table D
2001-218     12-7-2001   151.10
2001-219     12-10-2001  967.01
2001-220     12-07-2001  963.22
2001-221     12-10-2001  TSO Table G
2001-222     12-10-2001  Not codified
2001-223     12-10-2001  Not codified
2001-224     12-10-2001  Not codified
2001-225     12-10-2001  Not codified
2001-226     12-10-01    Not codified
2002-02      1-14-2002   TSO Table H
2002-03      1-14-2002   TSO Table D
2002-04      1-14-2002   TSO Table D
2002-05      2-11-2002   TSO Table I
2002-06      1-14-2002   Not codified
2002-07      1-14-2002   TSO Table B
2002-08      1-14-2002   TSO Table D; Repealing Ord. 2001-217
2002-09      1-14-2002   Not codified
2002-10      1-14-2002   Not codified
2002-11      1-14-2002   Not codified
2002-12      1-14-2002   Not codified
2002-13      1-14-2002   Not codified
2002-14      1-14-2002   Not codified; Repealing Ord. 2001-186
2002-15      1-14-2002   Not codified
2002-16      1-14-2002   TSO Table F
2002-17      1-14-2002   TSO Table F
2002-18      1-14-2002   Not codified
2002-19      1-28-2002   TSO Table B
2002-20      1-28-2002   TSO Table D
2002-21      1-28-2002   TSO Table D
2002-22      1-28-2002   145.08
2002-23      1-28-2002   145.09
2002-24      1-28-2002   139.11
2002-25      1-28-2002   Not codified
2002-26      1-28-2002   Not codified
2002-27      1-28-2002   Not codified
2002-28      1-28-2002   Not codified
2002-29      2-11-2002   Not codified
2002-30      2-11-2002   Not codified
2002-31      2-11-2002   TSO Table B
2002-32      2-11-2002   Not codified
2002-33      2-11-2002   151.02
2002-34      2-11-2002   Not codified
2002-35      2-11-2002   Not codified
2002-36      2-11-2002   Not codified
2002-37      2-11-2002   TSO Table D
2002-38      2-25-2002   TSO Table D
2002-40      2-25-2002   Not codified
2002-41      2-25-2002   Not codified
2002-42      2-25-2002   Not codified
2002-43      3-11-2002   TSO Table H
2002-44      3-11-2002   TSO Table H
2002-45      3-11-2002   TSO Table B
2002-46      6-10-2002   TSO Table B
2002-46      3-11-2002   TSO Table D
2002-47      3-11-2002   TSO Table D
2002-48      3-11-2002   Not codified
2002-49      3-11-2002   Not codified
2002-50      3-11-2002   Not codified
2002-51      3-11-2002   Not codified
2002-52      3-11-2002   Not codified
2002-53      3-11-2002   TSO Table D
2002-54      3-25-2002   Not codified
2002-55      3-25-2002   Not codified
2002-56      3-25-2002   Not codified
2002-57      3-25-2002   Not codified
2002-58      3-25-2002   Not codified
2002-60      4-11-2002   Not codified
2002-61      5-13-2002   939.01
2002-62      4-3-2002    Not codified
2002-63      4-3-2002    961.04
2002-64      4-22-2002   TSO Table H
2002-65      4-22-2002   TSO Table H
2002-66      4-22-2002   Not codified
2002-67      4-22-2002   Not codified
2002-68      4-22-2002   Not codified
2002-69      4-22-2002   Not codified
2002-70      4-22-2002   Not codified
2002-71      4-22-2002   Not codified
2002-72      4-22-2002   Not codified
2002-73      4-22-2002   TSO Table E
2002-74      5-13-2002   Not codified
2002-75      5-13-2002   Not codified
2002-76      5-13-2002   Not codified
2002-77      5-13-2002   Not codified
2002-78      5-13-2002   Not codified
2002-79      5-13-2002   Not codified
2002-80      5-13-2002   Not codified
2002-81      5-13-2002   Not codified
2002-82      5-13-2002   Not codified
2002-83      5-13-2002   Not codified
2002-84      5-13-2002   Not codified
2002-85      5-13-2002   Not codified
2002-86      5-13-2002   Not codified
2002-87      7-8-2002    TSO Table I
2002-88      6-10-2002   TSO Table D
2002-90      6-10-2002   Not codified
2002-91      6-10-2002   Not codified
2002-92      6-10-2002   Not codified
2002-93      6-10-2002   Not codified
2002-94      6-10-2002   Not codified
2002-95      6-10-2002   Not codified
2002-96      6-10-2002   Not codified
2002-97      6-10-2002   Not codified
2002-98      6-10-2002   Not codified
2002-99      6-10-2002   Not codified
2002-100     6-24-2002   Not codified
2002-101     6-24-2002   TSO Table D
2002-102     6-24-2002   Not codified
2002-103     6-24-2002   Not codified
2002-104     7-8-2002    Not codified
2002-105     7-8-2002    Not codified
2002-106     7-8-2002    Not codified
2002-107     7-8-2002    Not codified
2002-108     7-22-2002   TSO Table D
2002-109     7-22-2002   Not codified
2002-110     7-22-2002   Not codified
2002-112     7-22-2002   Not codified
2002-113     7-22-2002   Repealed by Ord. 2012-80
2002-115     9-9-2002    Not codified
2002-116     8-12-2002   Not codified
2002-117     8-26-2002   TSO Table D
2002-119     8-26-2002   151.06,
                         165.02
2002-120     8-26-2002   165.22
2002-121     10-14-2002  Not codified
2002-122     8-26-2002   Not codified
2002-123     8-26-2002   Not codified
2002-124     8-26-2002   Not codified
2002-125     8-26-2002   TSO Table E
2002-126     8-26-2002   TSO Table E
2002-127     9-9-2002    133.05
2002-128     9-9-2002    139.03
2002-129     9-23-2002   Not codified
2002-130     9-23-2002   Not codified
2002-131     9-23-2002   Not codified
2002-132     10-14-2002  TSO Table D
2002-133     10-14-2002  TSO Table D
2002-134     10-14-2002  TSO Table H
2002-135     10-14-2002  Not codified
2002-136     10-14-2002  Not codified
2002-137     10-14-2002  Not codified
2002-138     10-28-2002  TSO Table B,
                         TSO Table C
2002-139     10-28-2002  Not codified
2002-140     10-28-2002  Not codified
2002-141     11-11-2002  Not codified
2002-142     11-11-2002  TSO Table D
2002-143     11-11-2002  TSO Table B
2002-144     11-11-2002  Not codified
2002-145     11-11-2002  Not codified
2002-146     11-11-2002  Not codified
2002-147     11-25-2002  Not codified
2002-148     11-25-2002  Not codified
2002-149     11-25-2002  Not codified
2002-150     11-25-2002  Not codified
2002-151     11-25-2002  Not codified
2002-152     11-25-2002  TSO Table B,
                         TSO Table C
2002-153     11-25-2002  TSO Table B,
                         TSO Table C
2002-154     11-25-2002  Not codified
2002-155     11-25-2002  Not codified
2002-156     12-9-2002   Not codified
2002-157     12-9-2002   Not codified
2002-158     12-9-2002   145.08
2002-159     12-9-2002   TSO Table D
2002-160     12-9-2002   TSO Table B,
                         TSO Table D
2002-161     12-9-2002   TSO Table B
2002-162     12-9-2002   TSO Table D
2002-163     12-9-2002   Not codified
2002-164     12-9-2002   Not codified
2002-165     12-5-2002   963.22
2002-166     12-9-2002   Not codified
2002-167     12-9-2002   Not codified
2002-168     12-9-2002   Not codified
2002-169     12-9-2002   Not codified
2002-170     12-9-2002   Not codified
2003-01      1-13-2003   TSO Table D
2003-02      1-13-2003   TSO Table D
2003-03      1-13-2003   TSO Table D
2003-04      1-13-2003   TSO Table D
2003-05      1-13-2003   TSO Table B
2003-06      1-13-2003   Not codified
2003-07      1-13-2003   Not codified
2003-08      1-13-2003   Not codified
2003-09      1-27-2003   TSO Table D
2003-10      1-27-2003   TSO Table D
2003-12      1-27-2003   TSO Table D
2003-13      1-27-2003   Not codified
2003-14      1-27-2003   Not codified
2003-15      1-27-2003   Not codified
2003-16      1-27-2003   Not codified
2003-17      1-27-2003   TSO Table E
2003-18      2-10-2003   TSO Table D
2003-19      2-10-2003   Not codified
2003-20      2-10-2003   141.05
2003-21      2-24-2003   TSO Table H
2003-22      2-24-2003   TSO Table D
2003-23      3-11-2003   Not codified
2003-24      2-24-2003   Not codified
2003-25      3-10-2003   Not codified
2003-26      3-10-2003   Not codified
2003-27      3-10-2003   Not codified; Repeals
                         Ch. 707
2003-28      3-24-2003   Not codified
2003-29      3-24-2003   Not codified
2003-30      3-24-2003   Not codified
2003-31      3-24-2002   Not codified
2003-32      4-14-2003   TSO Table B
2003-33      4-14-2003   TSO Table D
2003-34      4-14-2003   Not codified
2003-35      4-14-2003   Not codified
2003-36      4-14-2003   Not codified
2003-37      4-14-2003   Not codified
2003-38      4-14-2003   Not codified
2003-39      4-14-2003   Not codified
2003-40      4-14-2003   TSO Table E
2003-41      4-14-2003   Not codified
2003-42      4-14-2003   TSO Table E
2003-43      4-14-2003   TSO Table E
2003-44      4-14-2003   Not codified
2003-45      4-14-2003   Not codified
2003-46      4-28-2003   TSO Table D
2003-47      4-28-2003   TSO Table D
2003-48      4-28-2003   942.08
2003-49      4-28-2003   Not codified
2003-50      4-28-2003   Not codified
2003-51      4-28-2003   Not codified
2003-52      5-12-2003   TSO Table D
2003-53      5-12-2003   TSO Table D
2003-54      5-12-2003   Not codified
2003-55      5-12-2003   Not codified
2003-56      5-12-2003   Not codified
2003-57      5-12-2003   Not codified
2003-58      5-12-2003   TSO Table E
2003-59      5-28-2003   Not codified
2003-60      - -2003     Not codified
2003-61      5-28-2003   TSO Table E
2003-62      6-9-2003    TSO Table D
2003-63      6-9-2003    TSO Table D
2003-64      6-9-2003    TSO Table D
2003-65      6-9-2003    TSO Table D
2003-66      6-9-2003    TSO Table D
2003-67      6-9-2003    TSO Table B
2003-68      6-9-2003    Not codified
2003-69      6-9-2003    Not codified
2003-71      6-23-2003   TSO Table C
2003-72      6-23-2003   TSO Table D
2003-73      6-23-2003   TSO Table D
2003-74      6-23-2003   TSO Table D
2003-75      6-23-2003   TSO Table B
2003-76      6-23-2003   TSO Table D
2003-77      6-23-2003   Not codified
2003-78      6-23-2003   Not codified
2003-79      6-23-2003   Not codified
2003-80      6-23-2003   Not codified
2003-81      6-23-2003   333.01
2003-82      6-23-2003   Not codified
2003-83      7-14-2003   TSO Table D
2003-84      7-14-2003   Not codified
2003-85      7-14-2003   TSO Table E
2003-86      7-14-2003   Not codified
2003-87      7-14-2003   Not codified
2003-88      7-14-2003   Not codified
2003-89      7-28-2003   TSO Table B
2003-90      7-28-2003   TSO Table B
2003-91      7-28-2003   TSO Table E
2003-92      7-28-2003   135.01; Repealing Ord. 2002-184
2003-93      7-28-2003   151.05
2003-94      7-28-2003   Not codified
2003-95      8-11-2003   TSO Table D
2003-96      8-11-2003   TSO Table D
2003-97      8-11-2003   Not codified
2003-98      8-11-2003   Not codified
                         1133.143,
2003-99      9-8-2003    1187.01—
                         1187.16
2003-100     8-25-2003   TSO Table D
2003-101     9-8-2003    TSO Table D
2003-102     9-8-2003    TSO Table B
2003-103     9-8-2003    TSO Table D
2003-104     9-8-2003    TSO Table D
2003-105     10-6-2003   TSO Table I
2003-106     9-8-2003    Not codified
2003-107     9-8-2003    TSO Table E
2003-108     9-8-2003    Not codified
2003-109     9-22-2003   Not codified
2003-110     9-22-2003   TSO Table E
2003-111     9-22-2003   Not codified
2003-112     10-13-2003  Not codified
2003-113     10-13-2003  TSO Table D
2003-114     10-13-2003  Not codified
2003-115     10-13-2003  Not codified
2003-116     10-13-2003  Not codified
                         165.02,
2003-117     10-13-2003  165.03;
                         165.07;
                         165.09
2003-118     10-13-2003  Repealed by Ord. 2016-100
2003-119     10-13-2003  Not codified
2003-120     10-13-2003  Not codified
2003-121     10-27-2003  TSO Table D
2003-122     10-27-2003  TSO Table D
2003-123     10-27-2003  Not codified
2003-124     10-27-2003  Not codified
2003-125     11-10-2003  TSO Table D
2003-126     11-10-2003  TSO Table B
2003-127     11-10-2003  TSO Table D
2003-128     11-10-2003  Not codified
2003-129     11-10-2003  Not codified
2003-130     11-10-2003  TSO Table E
2003-131     11-10-2003  TSO Table H
2003-132     11-10-2003  TSO Table H
2003-133     11-10-2003  Not codified
2003-134     11-24-2003  Not codified
2003-135     11-24-2003  Not codified
2003-136     11-24-2003  Not codified
2003-137     11-24-2003  Not codified
2003-138     12-24-2003  TSO Table I
2003-139     11-24-2003  TSO Table I
2003-140     11-24-2003  TSO Table D
2003-141     11-24-2003  Not codified
2003-142     11-24-2003  Not codified
2003-143     11-24-2003  Not codified
2003-144     11-24-2003  Not codified
2003-145     11-24-2003  Not codified
2003-146     11-24-2003  963.22
2003-147     11-24-2003  TSO Table D
2003-148     11-24-2003  TSO Table D
2003-149     11-24-2003  967.01
2003-150     11-24-2003  137.11
2003-151     11-24-2003  TSO Table B
2003-152     11-24-2003  Not codified
2003-153     11-24-2003  Not codified
2003-154     11-24-2003  Not codified
2003-155     12-8-2003   Not codified
2003-156     12-8-2003   Not codified
2003-157     12-8-2003   Not codified
2003-158     12-8-2003   Not codified
2003-159     12-8-2003   Not codified
2003-160     12-8-2003   TSO Table D
2003-161     12-8-2003   501.14
2003-163     12-8-2003   TSO Table H
2003-164     12-8-2003   TSO Table H
2003-165     12-8-2003   TSO Table D
2004-01      1-12-2004   TSO Table D
2004-02      1-12-2004   TSO Table D
2004-03      1-12-2004   TSO Table D
2004-04      1-12-2004   TSO Table D
2004-05      1-12-2004   TSO Table D
2004-06      1-12-2004   TSO Table D
2004-07      Defeated    Not codified
2004-08      1-12-2004   Not codified
2004-09      1-26-2004   TSO Table E
2004-10      2-9-2004    Not codified
2004-11      2-9-2004    Not codified
2004-12      2-9-2004    Not codified
2004-13      2-9-2004    TSO Table E
2004-14      2-23-2004   Not codified
                         1137.03,
                         1148.03,
                         1149.03,
                         1153.03,
2004-15      3-8-2004    1159.02,
                         1163.02,
                         1171.09;
                         1187.07,
                         1187.15
2004-16      2-9-2004    Not codified
2004-17      2-23-2004   Not codified
2004-18      2-23-2004   Not codified
2004-19      2-23-2004   Not codified
2004-20      2-23-2004   Not codified
2004-21      2-23-2004   Not codified
2004-22      2-23-2004   TSO Table B,
                         TSO Table D
2004-23      2-23-2004   TSO Table D
2004-24      3-22-2004   TSO Table I
2004-24      9-27-2004   TSO Table B
2004-25      3-8-2004    Not codified
2004-26      3-8-2004    Not codified
2004-27      3-8-2004    TSO Table D
2004-28      Defeated    Not codified
2004-29      3-8-2004    TSO Table F
2004-30      3-8-2004    Not codified
2004-31      3-8-2004    Not codified
2004-32      3-8-2004    Not codified
2004-33      3-22-2004   TSO Table D
2004-34      3-22-2004   Not codified
2004-35      3-22-2004   Not codified
2004-36      3-22-2004   Not codified
2004-37      3-22-2004   Not codified
2004-38      3-22-2004   Not codified
2004-39      3-22-2004   942.03,
                         942.08
2004-40      3-22-2004   TSO Table D
2004-41      3-22-2004   Not codified
2004-42      3-22-2004   Not codified
2004-43      3-22-2004   Not codified
2004-44      3-22-2004   Not codified
2004-45      3-22-2004   Not codified
2004-46      3-22-2004   TSO Table H
2004-47      4-12-2004   TSO Table D
2004-48      4-12-2004   Not codified
2004-49      4-12-2004   133.025,
                         165.02
2004-50      4-12-2004   Not codified
2004-51      4-12-2004   Not codified
2004-52      4-12-2004   Not codified
2004-53      4-12-2004   Not codified
2004-54      4-12-2004   Not codified
2004-55      4-12-2004   Not codified
2004-56      4-12-2004   Not codified
2004-57      4-26-2004   Not codified
2004-58      5-10-2004   TSO Table E
2004-60      5-10-2004   133.06
2004-61      5-10-2004   Not codified
2004-62      5-10-2004   141.06,
                         165.02
2004-63      5-10-2004   TSO Table D
2004-64      5-10-2004   Not codified
2004-65      5-10-2004   TSO Table D
2004-66      5-10-2004   Not codified
2004-67      6-14-2004   TSO Table I
2004-68      Defeated    Not codified
2004-69      5-10-2004   Not codified
2004-70      6-28-2004   Repealed
2004-71      Defeated    Not codified
2004-72      7-12-2004   Not codified
2004-73      6-14-2004   TSO Table D
2004-74      6-14-2004   TSO Table D
2004-75      6-14-2004   Not codified
2004-76      6-14-2004   Not codified
2004-77      6-14-2004   TSO Table E
2004-78      6-14-2004   Not codified
2004-79      6-28-2004   Not codified
2004-80      6-28-2004   TSO Table E
2004-81      6-28-2004   TSO Table H
2004-82      7-12-2004   Not codified
2004-83      6-28-2004   Not codified
2004-84      7-12-2004   TSO Table E
2004-85      7-12-2004   Not codified
2004-86      7-12-2004   TSO Table E
2004-87      7-12-2004   Not codified
2004-88      7-12-2004   Not codified
2004-89      7-12-2004   Not codified
2004-90      8-9-2004    TSO Table D
2004-91      7-12-2004   TSO Table D
2004-92      7-12-2004   Not codified
2004-93      8-9-2004    TSO Table I
2004-94      8-9-2004    TSO Table I
2004-95      8-9-2004    TSO Table I
2004-96      8-9-2004    TSO Table I
2004-97      Tabled      Not codified
2004-98      7-26-2004   Not codified
2004-99      7-26-2004   TSO Table E
2004-100     7-26-2004   Not codified
2004-101     7-26-2004   165.16
2004-102     8-9-2004    331.37,
                         351.03
2004-103     8-9-2004    TSO Table D
2004-104     8-9-2004    Not codified
2004-105     8-9-2004    165.22
2004-106     8-9-2004    165.05
2004-107     8-9-2004    Not codified
2004-108     11-4-2004   Ed. Note,
                         Ch. 181
2004-109     8-23-2004   Not codified
2004-110     8-23-2004   Not codified
2004-111     8-23-2004   TSO Table H
2004-112     8-23-2004   Not codified
2004-113     10-25-2004  TSO Table I
2004-114     9-13-2004   Not codified
2004-115     9-13-2004   Not codified
2004-116     9-13-2004   TSO Table D
2004-117     9-13-2004   TSO Table D
2004-118     9-13-2004   TSO Table E
2004-119     9-13-2004   Not codified
2004-120     9-13-2004   Not codified; Repeals Ord. 2003-92
2004-121     1-10-2005   TSO Table I
2004-122     9-27-2004   Not codified
2004-123     9-27-2004   Not codified
2004-125     9-27-2004   967.01
2004-126     10-11-2004  TSO Table D
2004-127     10-11-2004  Not codified
2004-128     10-25-2004  TSO Table E
2004-129     11-22-2004  TSO Table D
2004-130     11-8-2004   TSO Table D
2004-131     11-8-2004   TSO Table C
2004-132     2-14-2005   Not codified
2004-133     11-22-2004  Not codified
2004-134     Tabled      Not codified
2004-135     11-22-2004  963.22
2004-136     11-22-2004  Not codified
2004-137     11-22-2004  Not codified
2004-138     1-22-2004   165.22
2004-139     11-22-2004  Not codified; Repeals Ord. 2004-107
2004-140     12-13-2004  TSO Table D
2004-141     12-13-2004  TSO Table D
2004-142     12-13-2004  Not codified
2004-143     12-13-2004  TSO Table D
2004-144     12-13-2004  Not codified
2004-145     12-13-2004  Not codified
2004-146     12-13-2004  Not codified
2004-147     12-13-2004  TSO Table E
2004-148     12-13-2004  TSO Table E
2004-149     12-13-2004  TSO Table E
2004-150     12-13-2004  Not codified
2004-151     12-13-2004  Not codified
2004-152     12-13-2004  Not codified
2004-153     12-13-2004  TSO Table E
                         181.01-
                         181.11,
2004-154     12-13-2004  181.13,
                         181.14,
                         181.16,
                         181.99
                         1109.13,
                         1135.01,
                         1137.03,
                         1137.04,
                         1141.04,
                         1157.05,
                         1159.02—
2004-155     1-10-2005   1159.08,
                         1161.13,
                         1162.04,
                         1163.04,
                         1165.02,
                         1165.04,
                         1172.11,
                         1175.07,
                         1187.14
2004-156     3-14-2005   Not codified
2004-156     5-9-2005    Not codified
2004-157     1-10-2005   Not codified
2004-158     12-13-2004  Not codified
2004-159     12-13-2004  Not codified
2004-160     12-13-2004  Not codified
2005-01      1-10-2005   TSO Table D
2005-02      2-28-2005   TSO Table I
2005-03      2-28-2005   TSO Table D
2005-04      1-24-2005   Not codified
2005-05      2-14-2005   TSO Table D
2005-06      2-14-2005   TSO Table D
2005-07      2-14-2005   TSO Table D
2005-08      2-14-2005   TSO Table D
2005-09      3-14-2005   TSO Table I
2005-10      2-14-2005   333.03
2005-11      2-14-2005   Not codified
2005-12      2-14-2005   Not codified
2005-13      2-14-2005   942.08
2005-14      2-28-2004   Not codified
2005-15      2-28-2005   TSO Table D
2005-16      3-14-2005   Not codified
2005-17      3-14-2005   Not codified
2005-18      3-14-2005   Not codified
2005-19      3-14-2005   TSO Table D
2005-20      3-14-2005   TSO Table D
2005-21      3-14-2005   Not codified
2005-23      3-14-2005   Not codified
2005-24      3-14-2005   Not codified
2005-25      3-14-2005   Not codified
2005-27      3-14-2005   TSO Table E
2005-28      - -         Not codified
                         189.01—
2005-29      3-14-2005   189.05,
                         189.99
2005-30      - -         Not codified
2005-31      3-28-2005   TSO Table F
2005-32      3-28-2005   Not codified
2005-33      3-28-2005   TSO Table E
2005-34      3-28-2005   TSO Table E
2005-35      3-28-2005   Not codified
2005-36      3-28-2005   Not codified
2005-37      5-9-2005    Not codified
2005-38      4-11-2005   TSO Table D
2005-39      4-11-2005   TSO Table D
2005-40      4-11-2005   TSO Table D
2005-41      4-11-2005   TSO Table E
2005-42      4-11-2005   Not codified
2005-43      4-11-2005   Not codified
2005-44      4-11-2005   Not codified
2005-45      4-11-2005   Not codified
2005-46      4-11-2005   Not codified
2005-47      4-11-2005   Not codified
2005-48      4-28-2005   Not codified
2005-49      4-25-2005   TSO Table D
2005-50      4-25-2005   TSO Table D
2005-51      4-25-2005   Not codified
2005-52      4-25-2005   Not codified
2005-53      5-9-2005    1301.01
2005-54      6-13-2005   Not codified
2005-55      5-9-2005    Not codified
2005-56      5-9-2005    Not codified
2005-56      3-14-2005   Not codified
2005-57      5-9-2005    Not codified
2005-58      5-9-2005    Not codified
2005-59      5-23-2005   TSO Table D
2005-60      5-23-2005   TSO Table D
2005-61      5-23-2005   Not codified
2005-62      5-23-2005   Not codified
2005-63      5-23-2005   Not codified
2005-64      5-23-2005   Not codified
2005-65      7-23-2005   TSO Table B
2005-66      5-23-2005   Not codified
2005-67      5-23-2005   Not codified
2005-68      6-27-2005   Not codified
2005-69      9-29-2005   TSO Table I
2005-70      6-13-2005   169.01—
                         169.04
2005-71      6-13-2005   Not codified
2005-72      6-13-2005   TSO Table D
2005-73      6-13-2005   Not codified
2005-74      6-13-2005   TSO Table D
2005-75      6-13-2005   TSO Table D
2005-76      6-13-2005   TSO Table D
2005-77      6-27-2005   Not codified
2005-78      6-13-2005   Not codified
2005-79      6-27-2005   Not codified
2005-80      6-27-2005   Not codified
2005-81      6-27-2005   Not codified
2005-82      6-27-2005   Not codified
2005-83      Defeated    Not codified
2005-84      7-25-2005   TSO Table I
2005-85      8-8-2005    TSO Table I
2005-86      7-11-2005   TSO Table E
2005-87      7-11-2005   Not codified
2005-88      7-25-2005   TSO Table D
2005-89      7-25-2005   TSO Table D
2005-90      7-25-2005   Not codified
2005-91      7-25-2005   Not codified
2005-92      8-22-2005   Not codified
2005-93      8-8-2005    Not codified
2005-94      8-22-2005   TSO Table D
2005-95      8-22-2005   Not codified
2005-96      8-22-2005   TSO Table D
2005-97      8-22-2005   TSO Table D
2005-98      8-22-2005   TSO Table D
2005-99      8-22-2005   Not codified
2005-100     8-22-2005   Not codified
2005-101     8-22-2005   TSO Table D
2005-102     8-22-2005   Not codified
2005-103     8-22-2005   Not codified
2005-104     9-26-2005   TSO Table I
2005-105     Defeated    Not codified
2005-106     8-22-2005   Not codified
2005-107     9-12-2005   Not codified
2005-108     11-14-2005  Not codified
2005-109     9-12-2005   Not codified
2005-110     6-12-2005   Not codified
2005-111     9-12-2005   Not codified
2005-112     Defeated    Not codified
2005-113     9-12-2005   Not codified
2005-114     9-12-2005   Not codified
2005-115     9-26-2005   TSO Table D
2005-116     9-26-2005   TSO Table D
2005-117     9-26-2005   Not codified
2005-118     9-26-2005   Not codified
2005-119     11-28-2005  TSO Table I
2005-120     10-10-2005  TSO Table D
2005-121     10-10-2005  Not codified
2005-122     10-10-2005  145.12
2005-123     10-10-2005  Not codified
2005-124     10-10-2005  TSO Table G
2005-125     11-14-2005  Not codified
2005-126     10-24-2005  TSO Table B
2005-127     10-24-2005  TSO Table D
2005-128     10-24-2005  TSO Table D
2005-129     10-24-2005  TSO Table D
2005-130     10-24-2005  TSO Table D
2005-131     10-24-2005  Not codified
2005-132     10-24-2005  Not codified
2005-133     11-14-2005  1109.04,
                         1145.07; Repeals 1165.05
2005-134     11-28-2005  TSO Table I
2005-135     11-28-2005  TSO Table I
                         1133.66,
                         1145.08,
2005-136     11-28-2005  1170.01—
                         1170.16; Repeals Ch. 1189 (former 1170.07, 1170.08,
                         1170.12, 1170.13 Repealed by Ord. 2014-3)
2005-137     11-14-2005  TSO Table D
2005-138     11-14-2005  Not codified
2005-139     11-14-2005  TSO Table D
2005-140     11-14-2005  Not codified
2005-141     11-14-2005  Not codified
2005-142     11-14-2005  Not codified
2005-143     11-14-2005  Not codified
2005-144     11-14-2005  Not codified
2005-145     11-14-2005  Not codified
2005-146     11-14-2005  Not codified
2005-147     11-14-2005  Not codified
2005-148     11-14-2005  Not codified
2005-149     11-14-2005  Not codified
2005-150     11-28-2005  145.08
2005-151     11-28-2005  Repealed by Ord. 2016-100
2005-152     11-28-2005  TSO Table E
2005-153     11-28-2005  TSO Table E
2005-154     11-28-2005  963.22
2005-155     11-28-2005  967.01
2005-156     11-28-2005  Not codified
2005-157     11-28-2005  Not codified
2005-158     11-28-2005  Not codified
2005-159     11-28-2005  Not codified
2005-160     11-28-2005  Not codified
2005-161     12-12-2005  Not codified
2005-162     12-12-2005  TSO Table E
2005-163     12-12-2005  Not codified
2005-164     12-12-2005  Not codified
2005-165     12-12-2005  TSO Table D
2005-166     12-12-2005  TSO Table D
2005-167     12-12-2005  TSO Table B
2005-168     12-12-2005  Not codified
2005-169     12-12-2005  TSO Table D
2005-170     12-12-2005  Not codified
2005-171     12-12-2005  Not codified
2005-172     12-12-2005  Not codified
2005-173     12-12-2005  Not codified
2005-174     12-12-2005  Not codified
2005-175     1-9-2006    TSO Table I
2005-176     1-9-2006    TSO Table I
2005-177     1-9-2006    Not codified
2006-1       1-23-2006   Not codified
2006-2       1-23-2006   Not codified
2006-3       1-23-2006   Not codified
2006-04      1-23-2006   TSO Table D
2006-05      1-23-2006   TSO Table D
2006-06      1-23-2006   TSO Table D
2006-07      1-23-2006   139.05
2006-08      1-23-2006   139.06
2006-09      1-23-2006   145.11
2006-10      2-23-2006   TSO Table I
2006-11      1-23-2006   TSO Table B
2006-12      2-13-2006   Not codified
2006-13      2-13-2006   Not codified
2006-14      2-13-2006   Not codified
2006-15      2-13-2006   Not codified
2006-16      2-13-2006   141.05
2006-17      2-13-2006   151.02
2006-18      2-13-2006   Not codified
2006-19      2-13-2006   TSO Table B,
                         TSO Table E
2006-20      2-13-2006   Not codified
2006-21      2-13-2006   TSO Table D
2006-22      2-23-2006   TSO Table D
2006-23      2-23-2006   TSO Table D
2006-24      3-27-2006   Not codified
2006-25      2-23-2006   Not codified
2006-26      2-13-2006   Not codified
2006-27      2-13-2006   Not codified
2006-28      3-13-2006   TSO Table D
2006-29      3-13-2006   TSO Table B,
                         TSO Table D
2006-30      5-27-2006   1301.01,
                         1301.02,
2006-31      3-13-2006   Not codified
2006-32      3-27-2006   Not codified
2006-33      3-27-2006   Not codified
2006-34      3-27-2006   Not codified
2006-35      3-27-2006   Not codified
2006-36      3-27-2006   133.07
2006-37      5-8-2006    TSO Table I
2006-38      4-10-2006   TSO Table D
2006-39      4-10-2006   Not codified
2006-40      4-10-2006   Not codified
2006-41      4-10-2006   Not codified
2006-42      4-10-2006   Not codified
2006-43      4-10-2006   Not codified
2006-44      4-10-2006   Not codified
2006-45      4-10-2006   Not codified
2006-46      4-10-2006   Not codified
2006-47      4-10-2006   Not codified
2006-48      4-10-2006   Not codified
2006-49      4-10-2006   Not codified
2006-50      4-24-2006   TSO Table D
2006-51      4-24-2006   Not codified
2006-52      4-24-2006   Not codified
2006-53      5-22-2006   TSO Table I
2006-55      5-8-2006    TSO Table B,
                         TSO Table D
2006-56      5-8-2006    TSO Table B,
                         TSO Table D
2006-57      5-8-2006    Not codified
2006-58      5-22-2006   Not codified
2006-59      5-22-2006   TSO Table B
2006-60      6-26-2006   TSO Table I
2006-61      5-22-2006   Not codified
2006-62      6-12-2006   TSO Table E
2006-63      6-12-2006   TSO Table D
2006-64      6-12-2006   Not codified
2006-65      6-12-2006   Not codified
2006-66      6-12-2006   Not codified
2006-67      6-12-2006   Not codified
2006-68      6-12-2006   Not codified
2006-69      6-12-2006   Not codified
2006-70      6-12-2006   TSO Table E
2006-72      6-26-2006   TSO Table E
2006-73      6-26-2006   TSO Table G
2006-74      6-26-2006   TSO Table D
2006-75      7-24-2006   1170.02;
                         TSO Table I
2006-76      6-26-2006   Not codified
2006-77      6-26-2006   Not codified
2006-78      7-10-2006   TSO Table B
2006-79      7-10-2006   Not codified
2006-80      7-24-2006   Not codified
                         1133.132,
                         1157.04,
2006-81      8-28-2006   1159.02,
                         1174.01—
                         1174.15
2006-82      7-24-2006   TSO Table D
2006-83      7-24-2006   TSO Table C
2006-84      7-24-2006   171.01,
                         171.02
2006-85      7-24-2006   Not codified
2006-86      7-24-2006   Not codified
2006-87      7-24-2006   Not codified
2006-88      7-24-2006   Not codified
2006-89      8-14-2006   TSO Table D
2006-90      8-14-2006   Not codified
2006-91      8-14-2006   Not codified
2006-92      8-14-2006   Not codified
2006-93      8-14-2006   Not codified
2006-94      8-14-2006   Not codified
2006-95      8-14-2006   Not codified
2006-96      9-25-2006   TSO Table I
2006-97      8-28-2006   TSO Table D
2006-98      8-28-2006   Not codified
2006-99      8-28-2006   Not codified
2006-100     8-28-2006   Not codified
2006-101     9-11-2006   Repealed by Ord. 2017-67
2006-102     9-11-2006   TSO Table D
2006-103     9-11-2006   TSO Table D
2006-104     9-11-2006   TSO Table D
2006-105     9-11-2006   Not codified
2006-106     9-11-2006   Not codified
2006-107     9-11-2006   Not codified
2006-108     9-25-2006   942.08
2006-109     9-11-2006   Not codified
2006-110     9-11-2006   Not codified
2006-111     9-11-2006   Not codified
2006-112     9-11-2006   TSO Table E
2006-113     9-25-2006   TSO Table D
2006-114     9-25-2006   Not codified
2006-116     9-25-2006   Not codified
2006-117     10-23-2006  Not codified
2006-118     10-23-2006  Not codified
2006-119     10-23-2006  Not codified
2006-120     10-23-2006  Not codified
2006-121     10-23-2006  Not codified
2006-122     10-23-2006  Not codified
2006-123     10-9-2006   TSO Table D
2006-124     10-9-2006   TSO Table D
2006-125     10-9-2006   Not codified
2006-126     10-9-2006   Not codified
2006-127     10-9-2006   Not codified
2006-128     10-9-2006   Not codified
2006-129     10-9-2006   Not codified
2006-130     10-9-2006   Not codified
2006-131     11-13-2006  TSO Table I
2006-132     11-13-2006  TSO Table I
2006-133     10-23-2006  TSO Table D
2006-134     10-23-2006  TSO Table D
2006-135     10-23-2006  Not codified
2006-136     10-23-2006  Not codified
2006-137     10-23-2006  Not codified
2006-138     10-23-2006  339.13
2006-139     10-23-2006  351.15
2006-140     11-27-2006  549.09
2006-141     10-23-2006  Not codified
2006-142     12-11-2006  Not codified
2006-143     - -         Not codified
2006-144     11-13-2006  TSO Table D
2006-145     11-13-2006  TSO Table D
2006-146     11-13-2006  TSO Table D
2006-147     11-13-2006  TSO Table D
2006-148     11-13-2006  TSO Table D
2006-149     11-13-2006  TSO Table D
2006-150     11-13-2006  TSO Table D
2006-151     11-13-2006  TSO Table B
2006-152     11-13-2006  Not codified
2006-153     11-13-2006  Not codified
2006-154     11-13-2006  Not codified
2006-155     11-13-2006  Not codified
2006-156     11-13-2006  Not codified
2006-157     11-13-2006  Not codified
2006-158     11-13-2006  Not codified
2006-159     11-13-2006  Not codified
2006-160     1-8-2007    Not codified
2006-161     11-13-2006  Not codified
2006-162     1-8-2007    TSO Table I
2006-163     11-27-2006  TSO Table D
2006-164     11-27-2006  TSO Table B,
                         TSO Table D
2006-165     11-27-2006  Not codified
2006-166     11-27-2006  Not codified
2006-167     11-27-2006  165.22
2006-168     11-27-2006  Not codified
2006-169     11-27-2006  Not codified
2006-170     11-27-2006  TSO Table E
2006-171     11-27-2006  Not codified
2006-172     11-27-2006  Not codified
2006-173     12-11-2006  Not codified
2006-174     12-11-2006  Not codified
2006-175     12-11-2006  TSO Table D
2006-176     12-11-2006  TSO Table D
2006-177     12-11-2006  TSO Table D
2006-178     12-11-2006  TSO Table D
2006-179     12-11-2006  Not codified
2006-180     12-11-2006  Not codified
2006-181     12-11-2006  175.03
2006-182     12-11-2006  TSO Table E
2006-183     12-11-2006  TSO Table E
2006-184     12-11-2006  TSO Table E
2006-185     12-11-2006  TSO Table E
2006-186     12-11-2006  Not codified
2006-187     12-11-2006  Not codified
2006-188     12-11-2006  Not codified
2006-189     12-11-2006  Not codified
2006-190     12-11-2006  Not codified
2006-191     12-11-2006  Not codified
2006-192     12-11-2006  TSO Table B
2007-1       1-8-2007    TSO Table D
2007-2       1-8-2007    TSO Table D
2007-3       1-8-2007    TSO Table D
2007-4       1-8-2007    TSO Table H
2007-05      1-8-2007    Repealed by Ord. 2010-116
2007-6       1-8-2007    Not codified
2007-07      1-8-2007    145.10
2007-8       1-8-2007    145.08
2007-9       1-8-2007    Not codified
2007-10      1-8-2007    Not codified
2007-11      1-8-2007    TSO Table E
2007-12      2-26-2007   Not codified
2007-13      1-22-2007   963.22
2007-14      1-22-2007   Not codified
2007-15      1-22-2007   Not codified
2007-16      1-22-2007   Not codified
2007-17      1-22-2007   Not codified
2007-18      Defeated    Not codified
2007-19      2-12-2007   Not codified
2007-20      2-12-2007   Not codified
2007-21      2-12-2007   Not codified
2007-22      2-12-2007   151.08
2007-23      2-12-2007   171.03
2007-24      Defeated    Not codified
2007-25      Defeated    Not codified
2007-26      Defeated    Not codified
2007-27      2-26-2007   Not codified
2007-28      2-26-2007   Not codified
2007-29      2-26-2007   TSO Table E
2007-30      2-26-2007   Not codified
2007-31      2-26-2007   Not codified
2007-32      2-26-2007   Not codified
2007-33      2-26-2007   Not codified
2007-34      2-26-2007   Not codified
2007-35      2-26-2007   Not codified
2007-36      2-26-2007   Not codified
2007-37      4-9-2007    Not codified
2007-38      4-9-2007    Not codified
2007-39      3-26-2007   TSO Table D
2007-40      3-26-2007   TSO Table D
2007-41      3-26-2007   TSO Table D
2007-42      3-26-2007   TSO Table D
2007-43      3-26-2007   Not codified
2007-44      3-26-2007   Not codified
2007-45      3-26-2007   Not codified
2007-46      3-26-2007   TSO Table E
2007-47      3-26-2007   Not codified
2007-48      3-23-2007   TSO Table E
2007-49      3-23-2007   TSO Table E
2007-50      3-23-2007   TSO Table E
2007-51      3-23-2007   TSO Table E
2007-52      3-26-2007   TSO Table E
2007-53      4-9-2007    Not codified
2007-54      4-9-2007    Not codified
2007-55      4-9-2007    Not codified
2007-56      4-9-2007    Not codified
2007-57      4-9-2007    Not codified
2007-58      4-9-2007    Not codified
2007-59      4-9-2007    Not codified
2007-60      4-9-2007    TSO Table E
2007-61      4-23-2007   TSO Table D
2007-62      4-23-2007   TSO Table D
2007-63      4-23-2007   TSO Table B
2007-64      4-23-2007   Not codified
2007-65      4-23-2007   961.04
2007-66      4-23-2007   Not codified
2007-67      Tabled      Not codified
2007-68      5-21-2007   TSO Table D
2007-69      5-21-2007   TSO Table D
2007-70      5-21-2007   TSO Table D
2007-71      5-21-2007   TSO Table D
2007-72      5-21-2007   TSO Table E
2007-73      5-21-2007   Not codified
2007-74      5-21-2007   Not codified
2007-75      5-21-2007   Not codified
                         707.01—
2007-76      5-21-2007   707.11,
                         707.99
2007-77      5-21-2007   Not codified
2007-78      5-21-2007   Not codified
2007-79      5-21-2007   Not codified
2007-80      5-21-2007   Not codified
2007-81      5-21-2007   Not codified
2007-82      7-16-2007   Not codified
2007-83      6-18-2007   TSO Table D
2007-84      6-18-2007   TSO Table D
2007-85      6-18-2007   TSO Table D
2007-86      6-18-2007   TSO Table D
2007-87      6-18-2007   Not codified
2007-88      6-18-2007   Not codified
2007-89      6-18-2007   Not codified
2007-90      6-18-2007   Not codified
2007-91      6-18-2007   TSO Table E
2007-92      6-18-2007   Not codified
2007-93      6-18-2007   Not codified
2007-94      6-18-2007   Not codified
2007-95      6-18-2007   Not codified
2007-96      6-18-2007   Not codified
2007-97      6-18-2007   Not codified
2007-98      6-18-2007   Not codified
2007-99      6-18-2007   TSO Table H
2007-100     6-18-2007   Not codified
2007-101     6-18-2007   Not codified
2007-102     7-16-2007   Not codified
2007-103     7-16-2007   Not codified
2007-104     7-16-2007   Not codified
2007-105     7-16-2007   Not codified
2007-106     7-16-2007   Not codified
2007-107     - -2007     Not codified
2007-108     7-16-2007   Not codified
2007-109     7-16-2007   Not codified
2007-110     7-16-2007   Not codified
2007-111     7-16-2007   Not codified
2007-112     7-16-2007   Not codified
2007-113     7-16-2007   Not codified
2007-114     8-13-2007   TSO Table B
2007-115     8-13-2007   137.09
2007-116     - -2007     Not codified
                         Charter §
2007-117     8-13-2007   10.04,
                         181.15
2007-118     8-13-2007   TSO Table E
2007-119     8-27-2007   TSO Table D
2007-120     8-27-2007   TSO Table G
2007-121     - -         Not codified
2007-122     8-27-2007   Not codified
2007-123     8-27-2007   Not codified
2007-124     Failed      Not codified
2007-125     9-10-2007   TSO Table D
2007-126     - -2007     Not codified
2007-127     - -2007     Not codified
2007-128     9-10 -2007  Not codified
2007-129     9-10-2007   Not codified
2007-130     9-24-2007   TSO Table I
2007-131     9-24-2007   TSO Table D
2007-132     9-24-2007   TSO Table B
2007-133     9-24-2007   TSO Table B
2007-134     9-24-2007   TSO Table B
2007-135     9-24-2007   TSO Table E
2007-136     10-22-2007  303.09
2007-137     9-24-2007   TSO Table E
2007-138     11-12-2007  TSO Table I
2007-139     11-12-2007  TSO Table I
2007-140     10-8-2007   TSO Table D
2007-141     10-8-2007   TSO Table G
2007-142     10-8-2007   Not codified
2007-143     - -2007     Not codified
2007-144     10-22-2007  TSO Table D
2007-145     - -2007     Not codified
2007-146     10-22-2007  Not codified
2007-147     10-22-2007  Not codified
2007-148     - -2007     Not codified
2007-149     10-22-2007  165.22
2007-150     10-22-2007  Repealed by Ord 2008-128
2007-151     10-22-2007  141.04
2007-152     - -2007     Not codified
2007-153     10-22-2007  Not codified
2007-154     12-17-2007  TSO Table I
2007-155     12-17-2007  TSO Table I
2007-156     11-12-2007  TSO Table H
2007-157     11-12-2007  TSO Table H
2007-158     11-12-2007  165.05
2007-159     11-12-2007  165.24
2007-160     11-12-2007  TSO Table E
2007-161     11-12-2007  Not codified
2007-162     - -2007     Not codified
2007-163     11-26-2007  TSO Table B
2007-164     11-26-2007  TSO Table B,
                         TSO Table E
2007-165     11-26-2007  TSO Table B,
                         TSO Table E
2007-166     11-26-2007  TSO Table B
2007-167     11-26-2007  TSO Table B
2007-168     11-26-2007  TSO Table B,
                         TSO Table E
2007-169     11-26-2007  TSO Table B
2007-170     11-26-2007  TSO Table E
2007-171     11-26-2007  TSO Table E
2007-172     - -2007     Not codified
2007-173     - -2007     Not codified
2007-174     11-26-2007  181.15
2007-175     11- -2007   Not codified
2007-176     11-26-2007  Not codified
2007-177     - -2007     Not codified
2007-178     11-26-2007  TSO Table F
2007-179     11-26-2007  121.06
2008-01      1-14-2008   TSO Table E
2008-2       1-14-2008   Not codified
2008-03      1-14-2008   145.08
2008-04      2-25-2008   TSO Table I
2008-05      2-25-2008   TSO Table I
2008-6       1-28-2008   Not codified
2008-7       1-28-2008   Not codified
2008-8       1-28-2008   Not codified
2008-9       2-11-2008   Not codified
2008-10      1-28-2008   Not codified
2008-11      1-28-2008   183.03
2008-12      1-28-2008   Not codified
2008-13      1-28-2008   Not codified
2008-14      2-11-2008   151.02
2008-15      2-11-2008   Not codified
2008-16      2-11-2008   Not codified
2008-17      2-11-2008   Not codified
2008-18      2-11-2008   Not codified
2008-19      2-11-2008   TSO Table E
2008-20      2-25-2008   Not codified
2008-21      2-25-2008   Not codified
2008-22      2-25-2008   Not codified
2008-23      - -2008     Not codified
2008-24      - -2008     Not codified
2008-25      2-25-2008   Not codified
2008-26      - -2008     Not codified
2008-27      - -2008     Not codified
2008-32      4-21-2008   TSO Table I
2008-33      3-17-2008   TSO Table B
2008-34      3-17-2008   TSO Table B
2008-35      3-17-2008   TSO Table D
2008-36      3-17-2008   Not codified
2008-37      - -2008     Not codified
2008-38      3-17-2008   Not codified
2008-39      - -2008     Not codified
2008-40      3-17-2007   Not codified
2008-41      - -2008     Not codified
2008-42      4-21-2008   373.12,
                         963.21
2008-43      - -2008     Not codified
2008-44      3-17-2008   Repealed by Ord. 2016-100
2008-45      - -2008     Not codified
2008-46      - -2008     Not codified
2008-47      - -2008     Not codified
2008-48      5- -2008    Not codified
2008-49      4-21-2008   TSO Table C
2008-50      - -2008     Not codified
2008-51      - -2008     Not codified
2008-52      - -2008     Not codified
2008-53      4-21-2008   Not codified
2008-54      - -2008     Not codified
2008-55      5-12-2008   TSO Table C
2008-56      5-12-2008   TSO Table D
2008-57      - -2008     Not codified
2008-58      5- -2008    Not codified
2008-59      5- -2008    Not codified
2008-60      5- -2008    Not codified
2008-62      5- -2008    Not codified
2008-63      5-12-2008   Not codified
2008-67      6-8-2008    TSO Table D
2008-68      6-8-2008    TSO Table B
2008-69      6-8-2008    TSO Table B
2008-71      - -         Not codified
2008-72      - -         Not codified
2008-73      6-8-2008    521.11
2008-74      6-8-2008    Repealed by Ord. 2016-100
2008-75      - -2008     Not codified
2008-76      6-8-2008    TSO Table E
2008-77      7-14-2008   Not codified
2008-78      7-14-2008   TSO Table D
2008-79      7-14-2008   TSO Table B
2008-80      7-14-2008   TSO Table E
2008-81      - -2008     Not codified
2008-82      7-14-2008   TSO Table D
2008-83      - -2008     Not codified
2008-84      - -2008     Not codified
2008-85      - -2008     Not codified
2008-86      7-14-2008   963.08
2008-87      7-14-2008   139.07,
                         149.02
2008-88      7-14-2008   967.01
2008-89      8-11-2008   Not codified
2008-90      Defeated    Not codified
2008-91      8-11-2008   TSO Table D
2008-92      8-11-2008   TSO Table D
2008-93      8-11-2008   TSO Table H
2008-94      8-11-2008   TSO Table H
2008-95      8-11-2008   Not codified
2008-96      8-11-2008   TSO Table F
2008-97      8-11-2008   Not codified
2008-98      - -2008     Not codified
2008-99      9-8-2008    TSO Table E
2008-100     9-8-2008    505.09
2008-101     9-8-2008    Not codified
2008-102     9-8-2008    Not codified
2008-103     9-22-2008   Not codified
2008-104     9-22-2008   Not codified
2008-105     9-22-2008   TSO Table B
2008-106     10-13-2008  TSO Table D
2008-107     10-13-2008  TSO Table B
2008-108     10-13-2008  Not codified
2008-109     10-13-2008  Not codified
2008-110     10-13-2008  Not codified
2008-112     11-24-2008  TSO Table I
2008-113     10-26-2008  TSO Table D
2008-114     10-27-2008  TSO Table B
2008-115     - -2008     Not codified
2008-116     - -2008     Not codified
2008-117     - -2008     Not codified
2008-118     12-15-2008  TSO Table I
2008-119     11-10-2008  Not codified
2008-120     11-10-2008  Not codified
2008-121     11-24-2008  TSO Table H
2008-122     12-15-2008  1301.05
2008-123     11-24-2008  TSO Table I
2008-124     11-24-2008  Not codified
2008-125     11-24-2008  Not codified
2008-126     11-24-2008  Not codified
2008-127     11-24-2008  165.22
2008-128     11-24-2008  Not codified
2008-129     11-24-2008  137.07
2008-132     12-15-2008  TSO Table D
2008-133     12-15-2008  TSO Table D
2008-134     1-12-2009   1301.07
2008-135     12-15-2008  Not codified
2008-136     12-15-2008  Not codified
2008-137     12- -2008   Not codified
2008-138     12-15-2008  Not codified
2008-139     12-15-2008  Not codified
2008-140     12-15-2008  Not codified
2008-141     12-15-2008  Not codified
2009-        - -2009     Charter §
                         3.02A
2009-01      1-12-2009   TSO Table D
2009-2       1-12-2009   Not codified
2009-3       - -         Not codified
2009-4       1-12-2009   Not codified
2009-5       1-12-2009   Not codified
2009-06      1-12-2009   TSO Table B
2009-7       1-26-2009   Not codified
2009-8       1-26-2009   Not codified
2009-9       1-26-2009   Not codified
2009-10      - -2009     Not codified
2009-11      2-9-2009    TSO Table D
Res. 2009-12 6-8-2009    Not codified
2009-12      2-23-2009   TSO Table B
2009-13      2-23-2009   TSO Table E
Res.2009-13  6-8-2009    Not codified
2009-14      2-23-2009   TSO Table B
2009-15      2-23-2009   Not codified
2009-16      2-23-2009   Not codified
2009-17      2-23-2009   Not codified
2009-18      2-23-2009   Not codified
2009-19      2-23-2009   Not codified
2009-20      3-9-2009    Not codified
2009-21      3-9-2009    Not codified
2009-22      3-9-2009    Not codified
2009-23      3-9-2009    Not codified
2009-24      3-23-2009   351.15
2009-25      3-23-2009   Not codified
2009-26      3-23-2009   Not codified
2009-27      5-18-2009   TSO Table I
2009-28      - -2009     Not codified
2009-29      4-27-2009   TSO Table F
2009-30      4-13-2009   TSO Table B
2009-32      4-9-2009    963.22
2009-32      4-13-2009   Not codified
2009-33      4-9-2009    963.22
2009-33      4-13-2009   Not codified
2009-34      4-13-2009   Not codified
2009-35      4-13-2009   Not codified
2009-36      4-27-2009   TSO Table D
2009-37      4-27-2009   TSO Table B
2009-38      4-27-2009   Not codified
2009-39      4-27-2009   Not codified
2009-40      4-27-2009   Not codified
2009-41      4-27-2009   165.03
2009-42      4-27-2009   Not codified
2009-43      4-27-2009   Not codified
2009-44      6-8-2009    TSO Table D
2009-45      5-18-2009   TSO Table D
2009-46      5-18-2009   Not codified
2009-47      5-18-2009   Not codified
2009-48      5-18-2009   Not codified
2009-49      5-18-2009   Not codified
2009-50      5-18-2009   Not codified
2009-51      5-18-2009   Not codified
2009-52      5-18-2009   963.10
2009-53      7-13-2009   TSO Table I
2009-54      6-8-2009    TSO Table D
2009-55      6-8-2009    TSO Table D
2009-56      6-8-2009    Not codified
2009-57      6-8-2009    Not codified
2009-58      6-8-2009    Not codified
2009-59      6-8-2009    Not codified
2009-60      6-8-2009    Not codified
2009-61      6-8-2009    Not codified
2009-62      6-8-2009    Not codified
2009-63      6-8-2009    Not codified
2009-64      6-8-2009    Not codified
2009-65      6-8-2009    Not codified
2009-66      6-8-2009    Not codified
2009-67      6-8-2009    Not codified
2009-68      6-8-2009    Not codified
2009-69      7-13-2009   TSO Table D
2009-70      7-13-2009   TSO Table D
2009-71      7-13-2009   TSO Table E
2009-72      7-13-2009   Not codified
2009-73      7-13-2009   Not codified
2009-74      7-13-2009   Not codified
2009-75      7-13-2009   Not codified
2009-76      7-13-2009   Not codified
2009-77      - -2009     Not codified
2009-78      7-13-2009   Not codified
2009-79      - -2009     Not codified
2009-80      - -2009     Not codified
2009-81      7-13-2009   Not codified
2009-82      7-13-2009   Not codified
2009-83      7-13-2009   Not codified
2009-84      7-13-2009   Not codified
2009-85      7-13-2009   Not codified
2009-86      7-13-2009   Not codified
2009-        - -2009     Not codified
2009-114     - -2009     Not codified
2009-87      8-17-2009   Not codified
2009-88      8-17-2009   TSO Table B
2009-89      8-17-2009   TSO Table H
2009-90      8-17-2009   145.15
2009-91      8-17-2009   505.19
2009-92      8-17-2009   Not codified
2009-93      8-17-2009   Not codified
2009-94      8-17-2009   Not codified
2009-95      8-17-2009   Not codified
2009-96      8-17-2009   Not codified
2009-97      8-17-2009   Not codified
2009-98      8-17-2009   TSO Table E
2009-99      8-7-2009    Charter §
                         3.02A
2009-100     9-14-2009   Not codified
2009-101     9-14-2009   TSO Table D
2009-102     9-14-2009   Not codified
2009-103     9-14-2009   Not codified
2009-104     9-14-2009   Not codified
2009-105     9-14-2009   Not codified
2009-106     9-28-2009   Not codified
2009-107     9-28-2009   Not codified
2009-108     9-28-2009   Not codified
2009-109     9-28-2009   Not codified
2009-110     10-12-2009  TSO Table B
2009-111     10-12-2009  Not codified
2009-112     10-12-2009  Not codified
2009-113     10-12-2009  Not codified
2009-114     10-26-2009  TSO Table B
2009-115     10-26-2009  TSO Table B
2009-116     10-26-2009  TSO Table B
2009-117     10-26-2009  145.14
2009-118     10-26-2009  Not codified
2009-119     - -2009     Not codified
2009-120     - -2009     Not codified
2009-121     - -2009     Failed 2-8-2010
2009-122     - -2009     Failed 2-8-2010
2009-123     11-23-2009  Not codified
2009-124     11-23-2009  Not codified
2009-125     - -2009     Not codified
2009-126     - -2009     Not codified
2009-127     - -2009     Not codified
2009-128     - -         Not codified
2009-129     11-30-2009  Not codified
2009-130     11-30-2009  Not codified
2009-131     11- -2009   Not codified
2009-132     11-30-2009  Not codified
2009-133     11-30-2009  Not codified
2009-134     11-30-2009  Not codified
2009-135     11-30-2009  Not codified
2009-136     11-30-2009  Not codified
2009-137     11-30-2009  Not codified
2009-138     11-30-2009  Not codified
2009-139     11-30-2009  Not codified
2009-140     11-30-2009  Not codified
2009-141     11-30-2009  Not codified
2009-142     11-30-2009  Not codified
2009-        12-15-2009  Not codified
2009-143     12-15-2009  TSO Table I
2009-144     12-15-2009  TSO Table D
2009-145     12-15-2009  Not codified
2009-146     12-15-2009  Not codified
2009-147     - -2009     Not codified
2010-1       2-8-2010    TSO Table I
2010-2       1-11-2010   TSO Table D
2010-3       1-11-2010   Not codified
2010-4       1-11-2010   Not codified
2010-5       1-11-2010   Not codified
2010-6       1-11-2010   145.13
2010-7       1-11-2010   TSO Table E
2010-8       1-11-2010   Not codified
2010-8       1-25-2010   Not codified (number duplicated)
2010-9       1-25-2010   Not codified
2010-10      1-25-2010   Not codified
2010-11      1-25-2010   Not codified
2010-12      1-25-2010   Not codified
2010-13      1-25-2010   Not codified
2010-14      1-25-2010   Not codified
2010-15      1-25-2010   Not codified
2010-16      2-8-2010    TSO Table H
2010-17      2-8-2010    TSO Table H
2010-18      2-8-2010    Not codified
2010-19      2-8-2010    Not codified
2010-20      2-8-2010    Not codified
2010-21      2-8-2010    175.01
2010-22      3-22-2010   1170.04
2010-23      2-22-2010   TSO Table D
2010-24      2-22-2010   Not codified
2010-25      2-22-2010   TSO Table B
2010-26      2-22-2010   Not codified
2010-27      2-22-2010   Not codified
2010-28      2-22-2010   Not codified
2010-29      3-8-2010    Not codified
2010-30      3-8-2010    Not codified
2010-31      4-26-2010   TSO Table I
2010-32      4-26-2010   TSO Table I
2010-33      3-22-2010   Not codified
2010-34      3-22-2010   Not codified
2010-35      3-22-2010   Not codified
2010-36      3-22-2010   Not codified
2010-37      - -2010     Not codified
2010-38      4-12-2010   Not codified
2010-39      4-12-2010   Not codified
2010-40      4-12-2010   Not codified
2010-41      4-12-2010   Not codified
2010-64      5-24-2010   961.04
2010-65      6-28-2010   TSO Table B
2010-66      6-28-2010   TSO Table B
2010-67      6-28-2010   Not codified
2010-68      6-28-2010   Not codified
2010-69      6-28-2010   Not codified
2010-70      6-28-2010   Not codified
2010-71      6-28-2010   Not codified
2010-72      6-28-2010   Not codified
2010-73      6-28-2010   Not codified
2010-74      6-28-2010   Not codified
2010-75      6-28-2010   Not codified
2010-76      6-28-2010   Not codified
2010-77      6-28-2010   Not codified
2010-78      6-28-2010   Not codified
2010-79      6-28-2010   Not codified
2010-80      6-28-2010   Not codified
2010-81      6-28-2010   Not codified
2010-82      6-28-2010   Not codified
2010-83      6-28-2010   Not codified
2010-84      6-28-2010   Not codified
2010-85      6-28-2010   Not codified
2010-86      6-28-2010   Not codified
2010-87      6-28-2010   Not codified
2010-88      6-28-2010   Not codified
2010-89      7-26-2010   175.03
2010-90      7-26-2010   Not codified
2010-91      7-26-2010   Not codified
2010-92      7-26-2010   Not codified
2010-93      7-26-2010   Not codified
2010-94      7-26-2010   Not codified
2010-95      7-26-2010   Not codified
2010-96      7-26-2010   Not codified
2010-97      7-26-2010   Not codified
2010-98      7-26-2010   TSO Table H
2010-99      9-13-2010   TSO Table I
2010-100     8-23-2010   Not codified
2010-101     8-23-2010   Not codified
2010-102     8-23-2010   Not codified
2010-103     9-13-2010   TSO Table D
2010-104     9-13-2010   967.01
2010-105     9-13-2010   Not codified
2010-106     9-13-2010   TSO Table F
2010-107     11-1-2010   1200.01
2010-108     9-27-2010   Not codified
2010-109     9-27-2010   Not codified
                         1169.01 -
2010-110     11-1-2010   1169.41,
                         1169.99
2010-111     11-1-2010   TSO Table D
2010-112     11-1-2010   Not codified
2010-113     11-1-2010   TSO Table F
2010-114     11-1-2010   Not codified
2010-115     11-1-2010   Not codified
2010-116     11-1-2010   121.07
2010-117     11-1-2010   133.026
2010-118     11-1-2010   TSO Table F
2010-119     11-22-2010  Not codified
2010-120     11-22-2010  Not codified
2010-121     11-22-2010  Not codified
2010-122     11-22-2010  Not codified
2010-123     11-22-2010  Not codified
2010-124     11-22-2010  Not codified
2010-125     11-22-2010  Not codified
2010-126     11-22-2010  Not codified
2010-127     11-22-2010  Not codified
2010-128     11-22-2010  Not codified
2010-129     11-22-2010  Not codified
2010-130     11-22-2010  TSO Table E
2010-131     11-22-2010  TSO Table E
2010-132     11-22-2010  TSO Table E
2010-133     11-22-2010  TSO Table E
2010-134     11-22-2010  TSO Table E
2010-135     11-22-2010  TSO Table E
2010-136     11-22-2010  TSO Table E
2010-137     11-22-2010  TSO Table E
2010-138     11-22-2010  TSO Table E
2010-139     11-22-2010  TSO Table E
2010-140     11-22-2010  TSO Table E
2010-141     11-22-2010  TSO Table E
2010-142     11-22-2010  TSO Table E
2010-143     11-22-2010  TSO Table E
2010-144     11-22-2010  Not codified
2010-145     11-22-2010  Not codified
2010-146     11-22-2010  TSO Table F
2010-147     11-22-2010  Not codified
2010-148     11-22-2010  Not codified
2010-149     11-22-2010  Not codified
2010-150     defeated    Not codified
2010-151     12-13-2010  Not codified
2010-152     2-28-2011   Not codified
2010-153     12-13-2010  Not codified
2010-154     12-13-2010  Not codified
2010-155     12-13-2010  Not codified
2010-156     12-13-2010  Not codified
2010-157     12-13-2010  Not codified
2011-1       1-24-2011   TSO Table D
2011-2       1-24-2011   Not codified
2011-3       1-24-2011   Not codified
2011-4       1-24-2011   Not codified
2011-5       1-24-2011   Not codified
2011-6       1-24-2011   Not codified
2011-7       1-24-2011   Not codified
2011-8       1-24-2011   Not codified
2011-9       2-14-2011   Not codified
2011-10      2-14-2011   Not codified
2011-11      2-14-2011   707.05,
                         707.06
2011-12      2-14-2011   549.08
2011-13      9-12-2011   Not codified
2011-14      3-28-2011   TSO Table I
2011-15      2-28-2011   Not codified
2011-16      2-28-2011   Not codified
2011-17      2-28-2011   Not codified
2011-18      2-28-2011   Not codified
2011-19      2-28-2011   Not codified
2011-20      2-28-2011   TSO Table F
2011-21      3-14-2011   Not codified
2011-22      3-14-2011   Not codified
2011-23      defeated    Not codified
2011-24      3-14-2011   Not codified
2011-25      3-14-2011   Not codified
2011-26      3-14-2011   Not codified
2011-27      3-28-2011   Not codified
2011-28      3-28-2011   Not codified
2011-29      3-28-2011   Not codified
2011-30      3-28-2011   Not codified
2011-31      3-28-2011   Not codified
2011-32      4-4-2011    Not codified
2011-33      3-28-2011   Not codified
2011-34      3-28-2011   Not codified
2011-35      3-28-2011   Not codified
2011-36      3-28-2011   Not codified
2011-37      9-5-2011    TSO Table I
2011-38      4-11-2011   TSO Table B
2011-39      4-11-2011   TSO Table D
2011-40      4-11-2011   Not codified
2011-41      4-11-2011   Not codified
2011-42      4-25-2011   Not codified
2011-43      4-25-2011   Not codified
2011-44      4-25-2011   Not codified
2011-45      5-9-2011    Not codified
2011-46      5-9-2011    Not codified
2011-47      5-9-2011    Not codified
2011-48      5-9-2011    Not codified
2011-49      5-9-2011    Not codified
2011-50      5-9-2011    TSO Table E
2011-51      5-9-2011    TSO Table E
2011-52      7-11-2011   TSO Table I
2011-53      6-13-2011   Not codified
2011-54      6-13-2011   Not codified
2011-55      6-13-2011   Not codified
2011-56      6-13-2011   Not codified
2011-57      6-13-2011   Not codified
2011-58      6-13-2011   Not codified
2011-59      6-13-2011   Not codified
2011-60      6-13-2011   Not codified
2011-61      6-13-2011   Not codified
2011-62      6-13-2011   Not codified
2011-63      6-13-2011   TSO Table E
                         1133.24,
                         1133.25,
                         1133.49,
                         1133.64,
2011-64      8-8-2011    1133.143,
                         1133.145,
                         1133.156,
                         1159.02,
                         1175.05
2011-65      7-11-2011   TSO Table B
2011-66      7-11-2011   Not codified
2011-67      7-11-2011   Not codified
2011-68      7-11-2011   TSO Table E
                         725.01 -
2011-69      8-8-2011    725.13,
                         725.99
2011-70      9-12-2011   TSO Table I
2011-71      8-8-2011    TSO Table D
2011-72      8-8-2011    TSO Table D
2011-73      8-8-2011    965.07
2011-74      8-8-2011    Not codified
2011-75      8-8-2011    Not codified
2011-76      11-8-2011   Charter §
             by voters   3.02A
2011-77      10-24-2011  Not codified
2011-78      9-12-2011   Repealed by Ord. 2016-100
2011-79      9-12-2011   Not codified
2011-80      9-12-2011   Not codified
2011-81      9-12-2011   133.05
2011-82      9-26-2011   Not codified
2011-83      9-26-2011   Not codified
2011-84      9-26-2011   Not codified
2011-85      9-26-2011   Not codified
2011-86      10-24-2011  Adopting Ordinance
2011-87      10-10-2011  Not codified
2011-88      10-10-2011  Not codified
2011-89      10-10-2011  Not codified
2011-90      10-10-2011  TSO Table D
2011-91      10-10-2011  TSO Table D
2011-92      10-24-2011  Not codified
2011-93      10-10-2011  Not codified
2011-94      10-10-2011  Not codified
2011-95      10-10-2011  TSO Table F
2011-96      10-24-2011  Not codified
2011-97      10-24-2011  Not codified
2011-98      10-24-2011  Not codified
2011-99      10-24-2011  Not codified
2011-100     11-14-2011  TSO Table D
2011-101     11-14-2011  TSO Table D
2011-102     11-14-2011  Not codified
2011-103     11-14-2011  Not codified
2011-104     11-14-2011  Not codified
2011-105     11-14-2011  Not codified
2011-106     11-14-2011  Not codified
2011-107     11-14-2011  Not codified
2011-108     11-14-2011  Not codified
2011-109     11-14-2011  Not codified
2011-110     11-28-2011  Not codified
2011-111     11-28-2011  Not codified
2011-112     11-28-2011  Not codified
2011-113     11-28-2011  Not codified
2011-114     11-28-2011  Not codified
2011-115     11-28-2011  Not codified
2011-116     11-28-2011  Not codified
2011-117     11-28-2011  Not codified
2011-118     11-28-2011  Not codified
2011-119     12-12-2011  Not codified
2011-120     12-12-2011  Not codified
2011-121     12-12-2011  Not codified
2011-122     12-12-2011  Not codified
2011-123     12-12-2011  Not codified
2011-124     12-12-2011  Not codified
2011-125     12-12-2011  Not codified
2012-1       1-9-2012    Not codified
2012-2       1-9-2012    Not codified
2012-3       1-9-2012    Not codified
2012-4       1-23-2012   TSO Table B
2012-5       1-23-2012   Not codified
2012-6       1-23-2012   Not codified
2012-7       1-23-2012   Not codified
2012-8       1-23-2012   Not codified
2012-9       2-13-2012   TSO Table D
2012-10      2-13-2012   Not codified
2012-11      2-13-2012   TSO Table F
2012-12      2-13-2012   TSO Table F
2012-13      2-27-2012   Not codified
2012-14      3-12-2012   Not codified
2012-15      3-12-2012   TSO Table D
2012-16      3-12-2012   Not codified
2012-17      3-12-2012   Not codified
2012-18      3-12-2012   Not codified
2012-19      3-12-2012   165.09
2012-20      3-26-2012   TSO Table B
2012-21      3-26-2012   TSO Table B
2012-22      3-26-2012   Not codified
2012-23      3-26-2012   Not codified
2012-24      3-26-2012   Not codified
2012-25      4-9-2012    Not codified
2012-26      4-9-2012    Not codified
2012-27      4-9-2012    Not codified
2012-28      Defeated    Not codified
             4-9-2012
2012-29      4-9-2012    165.09
2012-30      4-23-2012   Not codified
2012-31      4-23-2012   Not codified
2012-32      4-23-2012   Not codified
2012-33      4-23-2012   Not codified
2012-34      4-23-2012   TSO Table F
2012-35      5-14-2012   Not codified
2012-36      5-14-2012   Not codified
2012-37      5-14-2012   TSO Table C
2012-38      5-14-2012   TSO Table D
2012-39                 Failed 6-11-2012
2012-40      6-11-2012   TSO Table D
2012-41      6-11-2012   TSO Table B
2012-42      6-11-2012   Not codified
2012-43      6-11-2012   Not codified
2012-44      6-11-2012   Not codified
2012-45      11-6-2012   Charter § 10.05
             by voters
2012-46A     6-11-2012   Not codified
2012-46B     11-6-2012   Charter § 8.01
             by voters
2012-47      7-9-2012    TSO Table D
2012-48      7-9-2012    TSO Table D
2012-49      7-9-2012    Not codified
2012-50      7-9-2012    Not codified
2012-51      7-9-2012    Not codified
2012-53      8-13-2012   TSO Table D
2012-54      8-13-2012   TSO Table D
2012-55      8-13-2012   TSO Table B
2012-56      8-13-2012   Not codified
2012-57      8-13-2012   Not codified
2012-58      8-13-2012   Not codified
2012-59      8-13-2012   Not codified
2012-60      8-13-2012   TSO Table F
2012-61      9-10-2012   TSO Table D
2012-62      9-10-2012   TSO Table B
                         949.01 -
2012-63      9-10-2012   949.11,
                         949.99
2012-64      9-10-2012   TSO Table B
2012-65      9-10-2012   Not codified
2012-66      10-8-2012   Not codified
2012-67      10-8-2012   Not codified
2012-68      10-8-2012   Not codified
2012-69      10-8-2012   Not codified
2012-70      10-22-2012  Adopting Ordinance
2012-71      10-22-2012  Not codified
2012-73      11-26-2012  Not codified
2012-74      11-26-2012  Not codified
2012-75      11-26-2012  Not codified
2012-76      11-26-2012  Not codified
2012-77      11-26-2012  TSO Table B
2012-78      11-26-2012  TSO Table E
2012-79      11-26-2012  Not codified
2012-80      11-26-2012  137.01
                         181.02,
2012-81      11-26-2012  181.03,
                         181.15
2012-82      11-26-2012  Not codified
2012-83      11-26-2012  Not codified
2012-85      12-10-2012  TSO Table D
2012-86      12-10-2012  Not codified
2012-87      12-10-2012  Not codified
2012-88      12-10-2012  Not codified
2012-89      12-10-2012  Not codified
2012-90      12-10-2012  Not codified
2012-91      12-10-2012  Not codified
2012-92      12-10-2012  Not codified
2012-93      12-10-2012  Not codified
2012-94      12-10-2012  Not codified
2012-95      12-10-2012  Not codified
2012-96      12-10-2012  Not codified
2012-97      12-10-2012  Not codified
2012-98      12-10-2012  Not codified
2013-1       2-11-2013   TSO Table I
2013-2       1-14-2013   TSO Table D 
2013-3       1-14-2013   Not codified
2013-4       1-28-2013   Not codified
2013-5       1-28-2013   Not codified
2013-6       1-28-2013   1301.01
2013-7       1-28-2013   Not codified
2013-8       1-28-2013   Not codified
2013-9       2-25-2013   Not codified
2013-10      1-28-2013   Not codified
2013-11      1-28-2013   Not codified
2013-12      1-28-2013   Not codified
2013-13      1-28-2013   Not codified
2013-14      1-28-2013   Not codified
2013-15      1-28-2013   Not codified
2013-16      1-28-2013   Not codified
2013-17      1-28-2013   TSO Table F
2013-18      1-28-2013   Not codified
2013-20      2-11-2013   TSO Table D
2013-21      2-11-2013   Not codified
2013-22      2-11-2013   Not codified
2013-23      2-11-2013   Not codified
2013-24      2-11-2013   Repealed by Ord. 2016-100
2013-25      2-11-2013   Not codified
2013-26      2-25-2013   Not codified
2013-27                 Defeated 3-11-2013
2013-28      2-25-2013   Not codified
2013-29      3-18-2013   TSO Table I
2013-30      3-11-2013   Not codified
2013-31      3-18-2013   Not codified
2013-32      3-18-2013   Not codified
2013-33      3-18-2013   Not codified
2013-34      4-8-2013    Not codified
2013-35      4-8-2013    Not codified
2013-36      4-22-2013   TSO Table D
2013-37      4-22-2013   Not codified
2013-38      4-22-2013   Not codified
2013-39      4-22-2013   Not codified
2013-40      4-22-2013   Not codified
2013-41      4-22-2013   Not codified
2013-42      4-22-2013   Not codified
2013-43      4-22-2013   Not codified
2013-44      5-13-2013   Not codified
2013-45      5-13-2013   Not codified
2013-46      5-13-2013   Not codified
2013-47      8-12-2013   371.06
2013-48      8-12-2013   549.08
2013-49      5-13-2013   Not codified
2013-50      5-13-2013   Not codified
2013-51      5-13-2013   Not codified
2013-52      6-10-2013   Not codified
2013-53      6-10-2013   Not codified
2013-54      6-10-2013   Not codified
2013-55      6-10-2013   Not codified
2013-56      6-10-2013   Not codified
2013-57      6-10-2013   Not codified
2013-58      6-10-2013   Not codified
2013-59      6-10-2013   Not codified
2013-60      6-10-2013   Not codified
2013-61      6-10-2013   Not codified
2013-62      7-8-2013    TSO Table D
2013-63      7-8-2013    Not codified
2013-64      7-8-2013    Not codified
2013-65      7-8-2013    Not codified
2013-66      7-8-2013    TSO Table E
2013-67      7-8-2013    Not codified
2013-68      9-9-2013    TSO Table I
2013-69      9-9-2013    Not codified
2013-70      8-12-2013   TSO Table D
2013-71      8-12-2013   137.07
2013-72      8-12-2013   137.14
2013-73      8-12-2013   Not codified
2013-74      8-12-2013   Not codified
2013-75      9-9-2013    Not codified
2013-76      9-9-2013    TSO Table B
2013-77      9-9-2013    TSO Table E
2013-78      9-9-2013    Not codified
2013-79      10-28-2013  Not codified
2013-80      10-14-2013  Not codified
2013-81      10-14-2013  Not codified
2013-82      10-14-2013  TSO Table E
2013-83      10-28-2013  Not codified
2013-84      10-28-2013  Not codified
2013-85      10-28-2013  Not codified
2013-86      10-28-2013  Not codified
2013-87      10-28-2013  133.08
2013-88      12-9-2013   TSO Table I
2013-89      11-18-2013  TSO Table D
2013-90      11-18-2013  TSO Table D 
2013-91      11-18-2013  TSO Table D
2013-92      11-18-2013  939.01
2013-93      11-18-2013  Not codified
2013-94      11-18-2013  Not codified
2013-95      11-18-2013  Not codified
2013-96      11-18-2013  Not codified
2013-97      11-18-2013  Not codified
2013-98      12-9-2013   Not codified
2013-99      12-9-2013   Not codified
2013-100     12-9-2013   Not codified
2013-101     12-9-2013   TSO Table D
2013-102     12-9-2013   TSO Table D
2013-103     12-9-2013   TSO Table D
2013-104     12-9-2013   Not codified
2013-105                Defeated 2-10-2014
2013-106     12-9-2013   Not codified
2013-107     12-9-2013   TSO Table B
2013-108     12-9-2013   TSO Table B
2013-109     12-9-2013   Not codified
2013-110     12-9-2013   Not codified
2013-111     12-9-2013   Not codified
2013-112     12-9-2013   Not codified
2013-113     12-9-2013   Not codified
2013-114     12-9-2013   TSO Table E
2013-115     12-9-2013   TSO Table E
2014-1       2-10-2014   TSO Table I
                         1160.02,
2014-2       2-10-2014   1160.05,
                         1188.04
                         1170.02,
                         1170.04,
2014-3       2-10-2014   1170.07 -
                         1170.16; Repeals 1170.07, 1170.08, 1170.12, 1170.13,
                         1170.21
2014-4       1-13-2014   TSO Table D
2014-5       1-13-2014   Not codified
2014-6       2-10-2014   Not codified
2014-7       2-10-2014   Not codified
2014-8       2-10-2014   Not codified
2014-9       2-24-2014   Not codified
2014-10      2-24-2014   Not codified
2014-11      2-24-2014   Not codified
2014-12      2-24-2014   Not codified
2014-13      2-24-2014   Not codified
2014-14      3-10-2014   Not codified
2014-15      3-10-2014   Not codified
2014-16      3-10-2014   Not codified
2014-17      5-12-2014   TSO Table D
2014-18      4-14-2014   Not codified
2014-19      4-14-2014   Not codified
2014-20      4-14-2014   Not codified
2014-21      4-14-2014   Not codified
2014-22      4-14-2014   Not codified
2014-23      4-14-2014   Not codified
2014-24      4-14-2014   Not codified
2014-25      4-14-2014   TSO Table B
2014-26      4-28-2014   Not codified
2014-27      4-28-2014   Not codified
2014-28      4-28-2014   Not codified
2014-29      4-28-2014   TSO Table E
2014-30      4-28-2014   Not codified
2014-31      5-12-2014   TSO Table D
2014-32      5-12-2014   TSO Table B
2014-33      5-12-2014   Not codified
2014-34      5-12-2014   Not codified
2014-35      5-12-2014   Not codified
2014-36      5-12-2014   Not codified
2014-37      5-12-2014   Not codified
2014-38      5-12-2014   Not codified
2014-39      5-12-2014   TSO Table E
2014-40      6-9-2014    Not codified
2014-41      6-9-2014    Not codified
2014-42      6-9-2014    Not codified
2014-43      6-9-2014    Not codified
2014-44      6-9-2014    Not codified
2014-45      6-9-2014    Not codified
2014-46      6-9-2014    Not codified
2014-47      6-9-2014    Not codified
2014-48      6-9-2014    Not codified
2014-49      6-9-2014    Not codified
2014-50      6-9-2014    Not codified
2014-51      6-30-2014   Not codified
2014-52                 Defeated 9-8-2014
2014-53      7-14-2014   TSO Table D
2014-54      7-14-2014   TSO Table D
2014-55      7-14-2014   TSO Table D
2014-56      7-14-2014   Not codified
2014-57      7-14-2014   Not codified
2014-58      7-14-2014   Not codified
2014-59      7-14-2014   Not codified
2014-60      7-14-2014   Not codified
2014-61      7-14-2014   Not codified
2014-62      7-14-2014   TSO Table E
2014-63                 Defeated 8-25-2014
2014-64      9-22-2014   TSO Table I
2014-65      9-22-2014   TSO Table I
2014-66      8-25-2014   Not codified
2014-67      8-25-2014   Not codified
2014-68      10-13-2014  Adopting Ordinance
2014-69      9-8-2014    TSO Table D
2014-70      9-8-2014    TSO Table D
2014-71      9-8-2014    TSO Table D
2014-72      9-8-2014    Not codified
2014-73      9-8-2014    Not codified
2014-74      9-8-2014    Not codified
2014-75      9-8-2014    Not codified
2014-76      9-8-2014    Not codified
2014-77      9-8-2014    Not codified
2014-78      9-8-2014    Not codified
2014-79      9-8-2014    Not codified
2014-80      9-8-2014    Not codified
2014-81      9-22-2014   Not codified
2014-82      9-22-2014   Not codified
2014-83      11-10-2014  TSO Table I
2014-84      11-10-2014  TSO Table I
2014-85      11-10-2014  TSO Table I
2014-86      10-13-2014  Not codified
2014-87      10-13-2014  Not codified
2014-88      10-13-2014  Not codified
2014-89      10-13-2014  Not codified
2014-90      10-13-2014  Not codified
2014-91      10-13-2014  Not codified
2014-92      10-13-2014  Not codified
2014-93      10-13-2014  Not codified
2014-94      10-13-2014  Not codified
2014-95      10-13-2014  Not codified
2014-96      10-13-2014  Not codified
2014-97      10-13-2014  TSO Table E
2014-98      10-13-2014  TSO Table F
2014-99      10-13-2014  Not codified
2014-100     11-10-2014  TSO Table D
2014-101     11-10-2014  TSO Table D
2014-102     11-10-2014  Not codified
2014-103     11-10-2014  Not codified
2014-104     11-10-2014  Not codified
2014-105     11-10-2014  Not codified
2014-106     11-10-2014  Not codified
2014-107     11-10-2014  Not codified
2014-108     11-10-2014  Not codified
2014-109     11-10-2014  Not codified
2014-110     11-10-2014  Not codified
2014-111     11-10-2014  Not codified
2014-112     11-24-2014  Not codified
2014-113     11-24-2014  Not codified
2014-114     11-24-2014  Not codified
2014-115     11-24-2014  Not codified
2014-116     11-24-2014  Not codified
2014-117     11-24-2014  Not codified
2014-118     11-24-2014  165.22
2014-119     11-24-2014  Not codified
2014-120     11-24-2014  TSO Table E
2014-121     11-24-2014  Not codified
2014-122                Defeated 1-12-2015
2014-123     12-15-2014  TSO Table D
2014-124     12-15-2014  TSO Table D
2014-125     12-15-2014  TSO Table D
2014-126     12-15-2014  TSO Table D
2014-127     12-15-2014  TSO Table D
2014-128     12-15-2014  Not codified
2014-129     12-15-2014  Not codified
2014-130     12-15-2014  Not codified
2014-131     12-15-2014  Not codified
2014-132     12-15-2014  Not codified
2014-133     12-15-2014  Not codified
2014-134     12-15-2014  Not codified
2014-135     12-15-2014  Not codified
2014-136     12-15-2014  Not codified
2014-137     12-15-2014  TSO Table E
2015-1       2-9-2015    TSO Table I
2015-2       1-12-2015   TSO Table H
2015-3       1-12-2015   Not codified
2015-4       1-12-2015   Not codified
2015-5       1-12-2015   Not codified
2015-6       1-12-2015   Not codified
2015-7       1-12-2015   Not codified
2015-8       1-12-2015   Not codified
2015-9       2-9-2015    TSO Table D
2015-10      2-9-2015    TSO Table B
2015-11      2-9-2015    Not codified
2015-12      2-9-2015    Not codified
2015-13      2-9-2015    Not codified
2015-14      2-9-2015    Not codified
2015-15      2-9-2015    Not codified
2015-16      2-9-2015    Not codified
2015-17      2-9-2015    Not codified
2015-18      2-9-2015    Not codified
2015-19      2-9-2015    Not codified
2015-20      2-9-2015    Not codified
2015-21      2-9-2015    TSO Table E
                         949.01 -
2015-22      2-23-2015   949.11,
                         949.99
2015-23      2-23-2015   Not codified
2015-24      2-23-2015   Not codified
2015-25      2-23-2015   Not codified
2015-26      2-23-2015   Not codified
2015-27      3-9-2015    TSO Table D
2015-28      3-9-2015    TSO Table D
2015-29      3-9-2015    Not codified
2015-30      3-9-2015    Not codified
2015-31      3-9-2015    Not codified
2015-32      3-9-2015    Not codified
2015-33      3-23-2015   Not codified
2015-34                 Defeated 9-28-2015
2015-35      3-23-2015   Not codified
2015-36      3-23-2015   Not codified
2015-37      3-23-2015   Not codified
2015-38      3-23-2015   Not codified
2015-39      4-13-2015   Not codified
2015-40      4-13-2015   Not codified
2015-41      4-13-2015   Not codified
2015-42      4-13-2015   Not codified
2015-43      4-13-2015   Not codified
2015-44      4-13-2015   TSO Table H
2015-45      4-27-2015   Not codified
2015-46      4-27-2015   Not codified
2015-47      4-27-2015   TSO Table F
2015-48      5-11-2015   TSO Table D
2015-49      5-11-2015   TSO Table D
2015-50      5-11-2015   TSO Table D
2015-51      5-11-2015   TSO Table D
2015-52      5-11-2015   Not codified
2015-53      5-11-2015   Not codified
2015-54      6-8-2015    Not codified
2015-55      6-8-2015    Not codified
2015-56      6-8-2015    Not codified
2015-57      6-8-2015    Not codified
2015-58      6-8-2015    Not codified
2015-59      6-8-2015    Not codified
2015-60      6-8-2015    Not codified
2015-61      6-8-2015    Not codified
2015-62      6-8-2015    Not codified
2015-63      6-8-2015    Not codified
2015-64      6-8-2015    Not codified
2015-65      6-8-2015    Not codified
2015-66      6-8-2015    Not codified
2015-67      6-8-2015    Not codified
2015-68      6-8-2015    Not codified
2015-69      6-8-2015    Not codified
2015-70      8-10-2015   Not codified
2015-71      7-13-2015   TSO Table D
2015-72      7-13-2015   Not codified
2015-73      7-13-2015   Not codified
2015-74      7-13-2015   Not codified
2015-75      7-13-2015   Not codified
2015-76      7-13-2015   Not codified
2015-77      9-3-2015    Not codified
2015-78      9-3-2015    Not codified
2015-79      9-3-2015    Not codified
2015-80      9-3-2015    Not codified
2015-81      7-13-2015   Not codified
2015-82      8-10-2015   Not codified
2015-83      8-10-2015   Not codified
2015-84      8-10-2015   Not codified
2015-85      8-10-2015   Not codified
2015-86      8-10-2015   Not codified
2015-87      8-10-2015   Not codified
2015-88      8-10-2015   Not codified
                         1162.04,
                         1163.05,
                         1165.04,
                         1175.05,
2015-89      9-28-2015   1185.02,
                         1187.06,
                         1187.12,
                         1187.13,
                         1187.15
                         1137.02,
2015-90      10-12-2015  1161.12,
                         1181.01
2015-91      9-3-2015    TSO Table H
2015-92      9-3-2015    Not codified
2015-93      9-28-2015   TSO Table D
2015-94      9-28-2015   TSO Table D
2015-95      9-28-2015   Not codified
2015-96      9-28-2015   Not codified
2015-97      9-28-2015   Not codified
2015-98      9-28-2015   Not codified
2015-99      9-28-2015   Not codified
2015-100     9-28-2015   Not codified
2015-101     9-28-2015   Not codified
2015-102     9-28-2015   Not codified
2015-103     9-28-2015   Not codified
2015-104     10-12-2015  Not codified
2015-105     10-12-2015  Not codified
2015-106     10-12-2015  TSO Table F
2015-107     10-12-2015  TSO Table F
2015-108     10-12-2015  Not codified
2015-109     10-12-2015  Not codified
                         182.01 -
2015-110     11-9-2015   182.21,
                         182.96 -
                         182.99
2015-111     11-9-2015   Not codified
2015-112     11-9-2015   Not codified
2015-113     11-23-2015  TSO Table D
2015-114     11-23-2015  TSO Table D
2015-115     11-23-2015  TSO Table D
2015-116     11-23-2015  TSO Table D
2015-117     11-23-2015  TSO Table B
2015-118     11-23-2015  TSO Table E
2015-119     11-23-2015  145.08
2015-120     11-23-2015  Not codified
2015-121     11-23-2015  Not codified
2015-122     11-23-2015  Not codified
2015-123     11-23-2015  Not codified
2015-124     12-14-2015  Not codified
2015-125     11-23-2015  165.22
2015-126     11-23-2015  Not codified
2015-127     12-14-2015  Not codified
2015-128     12-14-2015  Not codified
2015-129     1-11-2016   TSO Table I
2015-130     12-14-2015  Not codified
2016-1       1-11-2016   TSO Table H
2016-2       1-11-2016   Not codified
2016-3       1-11-2016   Not codified
2016-4       1-11-2016   Not codified
2016-5       1-11-2016   Not codified
2016-6       1-11-2016   Not codified
2016-7       1-11-2016   Not codified
2016-8       1-25-2016   TSO Table D
2016-9       1-25-2016   Not codified
2016-10      1-25-2016   Not codified
2016-11      1-25-2016   Not codified
2016-12      2-8-2016    TSO Table D
2016-13      2-8-2016    Not codified
2016-14      2-8-2016    Not codified
2016-15      2-8-2016    Not codified
2016-16      2-8-2016    Not codified
2016-17      2-8-2016    Not codified
2016-18      2-8-2016    Not codified
2016-19      2-8-2016    Not codified
2016-20      2-8-2016    Not codified
2016-21      2-8-2016    Not codified
2016-22      2-8-2016    Not codified
2016-23      2-8-2016    Not codified
2016-24      2-8-2016    Not codified
2016-25      2-8-2016    Not codified
2016-26      2-8-2016    Not codified
2016-27      2-8-2016    Not codified
2016-28      2-8-2016    Not codified
2016-29      2-8-2016    Not codified
2016-30      2-8-2016    TSO Table F
2016-31      2-22-2016   Not codified
2016-32      2-22-2016   Not codified
2016-33      2-22-2016   Not codified
2016-34      2-22-2016   TSO Table E
2016-35      2-22-2016   Not codified
2016-36      3-14-2016   TSO Table D
2016-37      3-14-2016   TSO Table D
2016-38      3-14-2016   TSO Table D
2016-39      3-14-2016   TSO Table B
2016-40      3-14-2016   TSO Table B
2016-41      3-14-2016   Not codified
2016-42      3-14-2016   Not codified
2016-43      3-14-2016   Not codified
2016-44      3-14-2016   Not codified
2016-45      3-14-2016   Not codified
2016-46      3-14-2016   Not codified
2016-47      3-14-2016   Not codified
2016-48      3-14-2016   Not codified
2016-49      3-14-2016   Not codified
2016-50      3-14-2016   Not codified
2016-51      3-14-2016   Not codified
2016-52      3-14-2016   Not codified
2016-53      3-14-2016   Not codified
                         1163.02,
                         1163.05,
2016-54      4-11-2016   1165.02,
                         1165.05,
                         1171.17,
                         1171.18
2016-55      4-11-2016   Not codified
2016-56      4-11-2016   Not codified
2016-57      4-11-2016   Not codified
2016-58      4-11-2016   Not codified
2016-59      4-11-2016   Not codified
2016-60      4-25-2016   TSO Table D
2016-61      4-25-2016   Not codified
2016-62      4-25-2016   Not codified
2016-63      4-25-2016   Not codified
2016-64      4-25-2016   Not codified
2016-65      4-25-2016   Not codified
2016-66      4-25-2016   Not codified
                         727.01 -
2016-67      6-13-2016   727.13,
                         727.99
2016-68      4-25-2016   TSO Table E
2016-69      9-12-2016   1133.144,
                         1188.08
2016-70      5-16-2016   TSO Table C
2016-71      5-16-2016   TSO Table D
2016-72      5-16-2016   TSO Table D
2016-73      5-16-2016   TSO Table D
2016-74      5-16-2016   Not codified
2016-75      5-16-2016   Not codified
2016-76      5-16-2016   Not codified
2016-77      6-13-2016   Not codified
2016-78      6-13-2016   Not codified
2016-79      7-11-2016   Not codified
2016-80      7-11-2016   Not codified
2016-81      7-11-2016   Not codified
2016-82      7-11-2016   Not codified
2016-83      6-13-2016   Not codified
2016-84      6-20-2016   Not codified
2016-85      6-20-2016   Not codified
2016-86      7-11-2016   TSO Table D
2016-87      7-11-2016   TSO Table D
2016-88      7-11-2016   Not codified
2016-89      7-11-2016   Not codified
2016-90      7-11-2016   Not codified
2016-91      9-12-2016   TSO Table I
2016-92      8-8-2016    TSO Table B
2016-93      8-8-2016    TSO Table D
2016-94      8-8-2016    TSO Table D
2016-95      8-8-2016    Not codified
2016-96      8-8-2016    Not codified
2016-97      8-8-2016    Not codified
2019-98      8-8-2016    Not codified
2019-99      8-8-2016    Not codified
                         147.01 -
2016-100     9-12-2016   147.07, Repeals 2003-118, 2005-151, 2008-44, 2008-74,
                         2011-78, 2013-24
2016-101     9-12-2016   Not codified
2016-102     10-10-2016  TSO Table I
2016-103     9-12-2016   TSO Table D
2016-104     9-12-2016   TSO Table C
2016-105     9-12-2016   TSO Table D
2016-106     9-12-2016   TSO Table D
2016-107     9-12-2016   Not codified
2016-108     9-12-2016   Not codified
2016-109     9-26-2016   Not codified
2016-110     9-26-2016   Not codified
2016-111     9-26-2016   Not codified
2016-112     10-10-2016  Not codified
2016-113     10-10-2016  Not codified
2016-114     10-24-2016  TSO Table D
2016-115     10-24-2016  TSO Table D
2016-116     10-24-2016  TSO Table B
2016-117     11-14-2016  TSO Table B
2016-118     10-24-2016  Not codified
2016-119     12-12-2016  TSO Table I
2016-120     12-12-2016  Adopting Ordinance
2016-121     11-14-2016  Not codified
2016-122     11-14-2016  Not codified
2016-123     11-14-2016  Not codified
2016-124     11-14-2016  TSO Table F
2016-125     11-14-2016  TSO Table F
2016-126     2-27-2017   Not codified
2016-127     2-13-2017   Not codified
2016-128     12-12-2016  TSO Table D
2016-129     12-12-2016  TSO Table D
2016-130     12-12-2016  TSO Table D
2016-131     12-12-2016  TSO Table D
2016-132     12-12-2016  Not codified
2016-133     12-12-2016  Not codified
2016-134     12-12-2016  Not codified
2016-135     12-12-2016  Not codified
2016-136     12-12-2016  Not codified
2016-137     12-12-2016  Not codified
2016-138     12-12-2016  Not codified
2016-139     12-12-2016  Not codified
2016-140     12-12-2016  Not codified
2016-141     12-12-2016  Not codified
2016-142     12-12-2016  Not codified
2017-1       1-9-2017    Not codified
2017-2       1-9-2017    Not codified
2017-3       1-9-2017    Not codified
2017-4       1-9-2017    Not codified
2017-5       1-23-2017   Not codified
2017-6       1-23-2017   Not codified
2017-7       1-23-2017   Not codified
2017-8       1-23-2017   1301.05
2017-9       1-23-2017   Not codified
2017-10      1-23-2017   Not codified
2017-11      1-23-2017   Not codified
2017-12      1-23-2017   Not codified
2017-13      1-23-2017   Not codified
2017-14      1-23-2017   Not codified
2017-15      1-23-2017   Not codified
2017-16      2-13-2017   Not codified
2017-17      2-13-2017   Not codified
2017-18      2-13-2017   Not codified
2017-19      2-13-2017   Not codified
2017-20      2-13-2017   Not codified
2017-21      2-13-2017   Not codified
2017-22      2-13-2017   Not codified
2017-23      2-13-2017   Not codified
2017-24      2-27-2017   TSO Table B
2017-25      2-27-2017   TSO Table D
2017-26      2-27-2017   Not codified
2017-27      2-27-2017   Not codified
2017-28      2-27-2017   961.04
2017-29      2-27-2017   Not codified
2017-30      2-27-2017   Not codified
2017-31      2-27-2017   Not codified
2017-32      3-20-2017   TSO Table D
2017-33      3-20-2017   TSO Table D
2017-34      3-20-2017   TSO Table H
2017-35      3-20-2017   TSO Table H
2017-36      3-20-2017   Not codified
2017-37      3-20-2017   Not codified
2017-38      3-20-2017   Not codified
2017-39      3-20-2017   Not codified
2017-40      3-20-2017   Not codified
2017-41      3-20-2017   Not codified
2017-42      3-20-2017   Not codified
2017-43      3-20-2017   Not codified
2017-44      3-20-2017   Not codified
2017-45      3-20-2017   Not codified
2017-46      3-20-2017   Not codified
2017-47      3-20-2017   Not codified
2017-48      3-20-2017   Not codified
2017-49      3-20-2017   Not codified
2017-50      3-20-2017   Not codified
2017-51      3-20-2017   Not codified
                         1157.04,
                         1162.02,
2017-52      5-15-2017   1163.02,
                         1165.02,
                         Ch. 1189,
                         Part 11, Appx. B
2017-53      4-10-2017   TSO Table D
2017-54      4-10-2017   TSO Table D
2017-55      4-10-2017   TSO Table D
2017-56      4-10-2017   TSO Table D
2017-57      4-10-2017   549.08,
                         549.09, Repeals 549.16
2017-58      4-10-2017   Not codified
2017-60      4-24-2017   Not codified
2017-61      4-24-2017   Not codified
2017-62      4-24-2017   TSO Table F
2017-63      4-24-2017   Not codified
2017-64      7-10-2017   Not codified
2017-65      6-12-2017   TSO Table I
2017-66      5-15-2017   711.04
2017-67      5-15-2017   723.01 -
                         723.19
2017-68      5-15-2017   TSO Table D
2017-69      5-15-2017   TSO Table D
2017-70      5-15-2017   Not codified
2017-71      5-15-2017   Not codified
2017-72      5-15-2017   Not codified
2017-73      5-15-2017   549.09
2017-74      5-15-2017   Not codified
2017-75      5-15-2017   Not codified
2017-76      6-12-2017   TSO Table H
2017-77      6-12-2017   TSO Table H
2017-78      6-12-2017   TSO Table D
2017-79      6-12-2017   TSO Table D
2017-80      6-12-2017   TSO Table D
2017-81      6-12-2017   TSO Table D
2017-82      6-12-2017   TSO Table D
2017-83      6-12-2017   Not codified
2017-84      6-12-2017   Not codified
2017-85      6-12-2017   Not codified
2017-86      7-10-2017   Not codified
2017-87      7-10-2017   Not codified
2017-88      7-10-2017   Not codified
2017-89      7-10-2017   TSO Table D
2017-90      7-10-2017   TSO Table D
2017-91      7-10-2017   TSO Table D
2017-92      7-10-2017   TSO Table D
2017-93      7-10-2017   Not codified
2017-94      7-10-2017   Not codified
2017-95      7-10-2017   168.01 -
                         168.03
2017-96      7-10-2017   TSO Table F
2017-97      8-14-2017   TSO Table D
2017-98      8-14-2017   Not codified
2017-99      8-14-2017   Not codified
2017-100     8-14-2017   Not codified
2017-101     8-14-2017   Not codified
2017-102     8-14-2017   Not codified
2017-103     8-14-2017   Not codified
2017-104     8-14-2017   Not codified
2017-105     8-14-2017   Not codified
2017-106     8-14-2017   Not codified
2017-107     9-11-2017   TSO Table D
2017-108     9-11-2017   TSO Table B
2017-109     9-11-2017   Not codified
2017-110     9-11-2017   Not codified
2017-111     9-11-2017   Not codified
2017-112     9-25-2017   Not codified
2017-113     9-11-2017   Not codified
2017-114     9-11-2017   Not codified
2017-115     9-11-2017   Not codified
2017-116     9-11-2017   TSO Table E
2017-117     9-25-2017   Not codified
2017-118     9-25-2017   TSO Table D
2017-119     9-25-2017   TSO Table D
2017-120     9-25-2017   Not codified
2017-121     9-25-2017   Not codified
2017-122     9-25-2017   Not codified
2017-123     9-25-2017   Not codified
2017-124     9-25-2017   Not codified
2017-125     9-25-2017   Not codified
2017-126     10-9-2017   TSO Table B
2017-127     10-9-2017   TSO Table B
2017-128     10-9-2017   Not codified
2017-129     10-9-2017   Not codified
2017-130     10-23-2017  TSO Table D
2017-131     10-23-2017  TSO Table D
2017-132     10-23-2017  Not codified
2017-133     10-23-2017  Not codified
2017-134     10-23-2017  Not codified
2017-135     10-23-2017  Not codified
2017-136     10-23-2017  Not codified
2017-137     10-23-2017  Not codified
2017-138     10-23-2017  Not codified
2017-139     1-22-2018   1171.19
2017-140     11-13-2017  TSO Table E
2017-141     11-13-2017  Not codified
2017-142     11-13-2017  Not codified
2017-143     11-13-2017  Not codified
2017-144     11-13-2017  Not codified
2017-145     11-13-2017  Not codified
2017-146     11-13-2017  Not codified
2017-147     11-13-2017  Not codified
2017-148     11-13-2017  Not codified
2017-149     11-13-2017  Not codified
2017-150     11-13-2017  Not codified
2017-151     11-13-2017  Not codified
2017-152     11-13-2017  Not codified
2017-153     11-27-2017  Not codified
2017-154     11-27-2017  Not codified
2017-155     11-27-2017  Not codified
2017-156     11-27-2017  Not codified
2017-157     11-27-2017  Not codified
2017-158     11-27-2017  Not codified
2017-159     11-27-2017  Not codified
2017-160     12-11-2017  TSO Table D
2017-161     12-11-2017  TSO Table D
2017-162     12-11-2017  TSO Table D
2017-163     12-11-2017  TSO Table D
2017-164     12-11-2017  Not codified
2017-165     12-11-2017  Not codified
2017-166     12-11-2017  Not codified
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
2018-1   2-12-2018   TSO Table I
2018-2   1-8-2018    TSO Table D
2018-3   1-8-2018    TSO Table D
2018-4   1-8-2018    182.051,
                     182.21
2018-5   1-8-2018    Not codified
2018-6   1-8-2018    Not codified
2018-7   1-8-2018    Not codified
2018-8   1-22-2018   TSO Table D
2018-9   1-22-2018   Not codified
2018-10  2-12-2018   TSO Table B
2018-11  2-12-2018   Not codified
2018-12  2-12-2018   Not codified
2018-13  2-12-2018   Not codified
2018-14  2-12-2018   Not codified
2018-15  2-12-2018   Not codified
2018-16  2-12-2018   Not codified
2018-17  2-12-2018   Not codified
2018-18  2-12-2018   147.01 -
                     147.07, Repeals 2016-100, 2017-29
2018-19  2-12-2018   Not codified
2018-20  2-12-2018   Not codified
2018-21  2-12-2018   Not codified
2018-22  2-12-2018   Not codified
2018-23  2-26-2018   Not codified
2018-24  2-26-2018   Not codified
2018-25  2-26-2018   Not codified
2018-26  2-26-2018   Not codified
2018-27  2-26-2018   Not codified
2018-28  2-26-2018   Not codified
2018-29  2-26-2018   Not codified
                     182.014,
                     182.02,
                     182.03,
                     182.062,
2018-30  2-26-2018   182.063,
                     182.07,
                     182.091,
                     182.093,
                     182.097
2018-31  4-9-2018    TSO Table I
2018-32  3-12-2018   TSO Table D
2018-33  3-12-2018   Not codified
2018-34  3-12-2018   Not codified
2018-35  3-12-2018   Not codified
2018-36  3-12-2018   Not codified
2018-37  3-12-2018   Not codified
2018-38  3-12-2018   Not codified
2018-39  3-12-2018   Not codified
2018-40  3-12-2018   Not codified
2018-41  3-12-2018   Not codified
2018-42  3-12-2018   Not codified
2018-43  4-9-2018    Not codified
2018-44  4-9-2018    Not codified
2018-45  4-9-2018    Not codified
2018-46  4-9-2018    Not codified
2018-47  6-11-2018   Not codified
2018-48  6-11-2018   Not codified
2018-49  6-11-2018   Not codified
2018-50  4-9-2018    Not codified
2018-51  4-9-2018    Not codified
2018-52  4-9-2018    Not codified
2018-53  4-9-2018    Not codified
2018-54  4-9-2018    Not codified
2018-55  4-9-2018    Not codified
2018-56  4-23-2018   Not codified
2018-57  4-23-2018   Not codified
2018-58  4-23-2018   Not codified
2018-59  4-23-2018   Not codified
2018-60  4-23-2018   TSO Table E
2018-62  6-11-2018   TSO Table I
2018-63  5-14-2018   TSO Table D
2018-64  5-14-2018   Not codified
2018-65  5-18-2018   Not codified
2018-66  8-20-2018   Not codified
2018-67  7-9-2018    521.10
2018-68  6-11-2018   TSO Table D
2018-69  6-11-2018   TSO Table D
2018-70  6-11-2018   Not codified
2018-71  6-11-2018   Not codified
2018-72  6-11-2018   Not codified
2018-73  6-11-2018   Not codified
2018-74  6-11-2018   Not codified
2018-75  6-11-2018   Not codified
2018-76  6-11-2018   Not codified
2018-77  6-11-2018   Not codified
2018-78  6-11-2018   Not codified
2018-79  7-9-2018    Not codified
2018-80  7-9-2018    Charter, Sec.
                     11.08
2018-81  7-9-2018    Repealed by Ord. 2022-85
2018-82  7-9-2018    Not codified
2018-83  7-9-2018    TSO Table H
2018-84  7-9-2018    Not codified
2018-85  7-9-2018    Not codified
2018-86  7-9-2018    Not codified
2018-87  7-9-2018    Not codified
2018-88  7-9-2018    Not codified
                     145.08,
2018-91  7-9-2018    145.13,
                     147.01
2018-92  8-20-2018   TSO Table D
2018-93  8-20-2018   TSO Table D
2018-94  8-20-2018   Not codified
2018-95  8-20-2018   TSO Table F
2018-96  8-20-2018   Not codified
2018-97  8-20-2018   TSO Table E
2018-98  8-20-2018   Not codified
2018-99  8-20-2018   Not codified
2018-100 8-20-2018   Not codified
2018-101 10-8-2018   TSO Table I
2018-102 9-10-2018   TSO Table D
2018-103 9-10-2018   TSO Table D
2018-104 9-10-2018   Not codified
2018-105 9-10-2018   Not codified
2018-106 9-10-2018   Not codified
2018-107 9-10-2018   Not codified
2018-108 9-10-2018   Not codified
2018-109 9-10-2018   941.21
2018-112 9-24-2018   Not codified
2018-113 9-24-2018   Not codified
2018-114 9-24-2018   Not codified
2018-115 9-24-2018   Not codified
2018-116 9-24-2018   Not codified
2018-117 9-24-2018   Not codified
2018-118 9-24-2018   Not codified
2018-119 10-8-2018   TSO Table B
2018-120 10-8-2018   TSO Table D
2018-121 10-8-2018   Not codified
2018-122 10-8-2018   Not codified
2018-123 10-22-2018  Not codified
2018-124 10-22-2018  Not codified
2018-125 10-22-2018  Not codified
2018-126 10-22-2018  Not codified
2018-127 10-22-2018  137.15
2018-128 11-12-2018  Not codified
2018-129 11-12-2018  Not codified
2018-130 11-12-2018  165.22
2018-131 11-12-2018  Not codified
2018-132 11-12-2018  Not codified
2018-133 11-12-2018  Not codified
2018-134 11-12-2018  Not codified
2018-135 11-12-2018  Not codified
2018-136 1-14-2019   TSO Table I
2018-137 1-14-2019   Adopting Ordinance
2018-138 12-10-2018  Not codified
2018-139 12-10-2018  TSO Table D
2018-140 12-10-2018  Not codified
2018-141 12-10-2018  Not codified
2018-142 12-10-2018  Not codified
2018-143 12-10-2018  Not codified
2018-144 12-10-2018  Not codified
2018-145 12-10-2018  Not codified
2018-146 12-10-2018  Not codified
2018-147 12-10-2018  Not codified
2018-148 12-10-2018  Not codified
2018-149 12-10-2018  Not codified
2018-150 12-10-2018  Not codified
                    
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
2022-1       2-14-2022   Not codified
2022-2       2-14-2022   TSO Table I
2022-3       2-14-2022   TSO Table I
2022-4       1-10-2022   Not codified
2022-5       1-10-2022   TSO Table D
2022-6       1-10-2022   Not codified
2022-7       1-10-2022   Not codified
2022-8       1-10-2022   Not codified
2022-9       2-14-2022   Not codified
2022-10      1-10-2022   Not codified
2022-11      1-10-2022   Not codified
2022-12      1-10-2022   147.01 -
                         147.08
2022-13      1-10-2022   Not codified
2022-14      1-10-2022   Not codified
2022-15      1-10-2022   Not codified
2022-16      1-10-2022   Not codified
2022-17      1-10-2022   Not codified
2022-18      1-10-2022   Not codified
2022-19      1-24-2022   Not codified
2022-20      1-24-2022   Not codified
2022-21      1-24-2022   Not codified
2022-22      1-24-2022   Not codified
2022-23      1-24-2022   Not codified
2022-24      1-24-2022   Not codified
2022-25      1-24-2022   Not codified
2022-26      1-24-2022   Not codified
2022-27      1-24-2022   Not codified
2022-28      1-24-2022   Not codified
2022-29      2-14-2022   Not codified
2022-30      2-14-2022   Not codified
2022-31      2-14-2022   TSO Table B
2022-32      2-14-2022   Not codified
2022-33      2-14-2022   Not codified
2022-34      2-28-2022   TSO Table F
2022-35      3-14-2022   Not codified
2022-36      3-14-2022   Not codified
2022-37      3-14-2022   Not codified
2022-38      3-14-2022   Not codified
2022-39      3-14-2022   Not codified
2022-40      3-14-2022   Not codified
2022-41      3-14-2022   Not codified
2022-42      3-14-2022   Not codified
2022-43      3-14-2022   TSO Table F
2022-44      3-14-2022   TSO Table F
2022-45      3-14-2022   TSO Table F
2022-46      4-11-2022   TSO Table D
2022-47      4-11-2022   TSO Table D
2022-48      4-11-2022   Not codified
2022-49      4-11-2022   Not codified
2022-50      4-11-2022   Not codified
2022-51      4-11-2022   Not codified
2022-52      4-11-2022   Not codified
2022-53      4-11-2022   Not codified
2022-54      4-11-2022   Not codified
2022-55      4-11-2022   Not codified
2022-56      4-11-2022   Not codified
2022-57      4-11-2022   Not codified
2022-58      4-11-2022   Not codified
2022-59      4-11-2022   Not codified
2022-60      4-11-2022   Not codified
2022-61      4-11-2022   Not codified
2022-62      4-11-2022   Not codified
2022-64      5-9-2022    Not codified
2022-65      5-9-2022    TSO Table D
2022-66      5-9-2022    TSO Table D
2022-67      5-9-2022    TSO Table D
2022-68      5-9-2022    TSO Table B
2022-69      5-9-2022    Not codified
2022-70      6-13-2022   Not codified
2022-71      5-9-2022    Not codified
2022-72      5-9-2022    Not codified
2022-73      5-9-2022    Not codified
2022-74      5-9-2022    Not codified
2022-75      5-9-2022    Not codified
2022-76      5-9-2022    Not codified
2022-77      5-9-2022    Not codified
2022-78      6-13-2022   TSO Table D
2022-79      6-13-2022   TSO Table B
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
2022-80      6-13-2022   Not codified
2022-81      6-13-2022   Not codified
2022-82      6-13-2022   133.05
2022-83      6-13-2022   Not codified
2022-84      6-13-2022   Not codified
2022-85      8-8-2022    Repealing Ch. 125
2022-86      7-11-2022   Not codified
2022-88      8-8-2022    TSO Table D
2022-89      8-8-2022    TSO Table D
2022-90      8-8-2022    Not codified
2022-91      8-8-2022    Not codified
2022-92      8-8-2022    Not codified
Res. 2022-19 8-8-2022    TSO Table E
2022-93      9-20-2022   TSO Table D
2022-94      9-20-2022   TSO Table D
2022-95      9-20-2022   TSO Table E
2022-96      9-20-2022   Not codified
2022-97      9-20-2022   Not codified
2022-99      10-10-2022  Not codified
2022-100     10-10-2022  Not codified
2022-101     10-10-2022  Not codified
2022-102     10-10-2022  Not codified
2022-103     10-10-2022  Not codified
2022-104     10-10-2022  Not codified
2022-105     10-10-2022  Not codified
2022-106     11-14-2022  TSO Table D
2022-107     11-14-2022  TSO Table D
2022-108     11-14-2022  Not codified
2022-109     11-14-2022  Not codified
2022-110     11-14-2022  Not codified
2022-111     11-14-2022  942.08
2022-112     11-14-2022  Not codified
2022-113     11-14-2022  Not codified
2022-114     11-14-2022  Not codified
2022-115     11-14-2022  Not codified
2022-116     11-14-2022  Not codified
2022-117     11-14-2022  Not codified
2022-118     11-14-2022  Not codified
2022-119     11-14-2022  Not codified
2022-120     12-12-2022  TSO Table D
2022-121     12-12-2022  Not codified
2022-122     12-12-2022  Not codified
2022-123     12-12-2022  165.22
2022-124     12-12-2022  Not codified
2022-125     12-12-2022  Not codified
2022-126     12-12-2022  Not codified
2022-127     12-12-2022  Not codified
2022-128     12-12-2022  Not codified
2022-129     12-12-2022  Not codified
2022-130     12-12-2022  Not codified
2022-131     12-12-2022  Not codified
2023-1       1-9-2023    TSO Table H
2023-2       1-9-2023    Not codified
2023-3       2-13-2023   TSO Table I
2023-4       1-9-2023    TSO Table D
2023-5       1-9-2023    Not codified
2023-6       1-9-2023    Not codified
2023-7       1-9-2023    Not codified
2023-8       1-9-2023    Not codified
2023-9       2-13-2023   Not codified
2023-10      1-9-2023    Not codified
2023-11      1-9-2023    Not codified
2023-12      2-13-2023   TSO Table D
2023-13      3-13-2023   TSO Table I
2023-14      2-13-2023   Not codified
2023-15      2-13-2023   Not codified
2023-16      2-13-2023   Not codified
2023-17      2-13-2023   Not codified
2023-18      2-13-2023   Not codified
2023-19      2-13-2023   Not codified
2023-20      2-13-2023   Not codified
2023-21      2-13-2023   Not codified
2023-22      2-13-2023   Not codified
2023-23      2-13-2023   Not codified
2023-24      2-13-2023   Not codified
2023-25      2-13-2023   Not codified
2023-26      2-13-2023   335.131
2023-27      2-13-2023   Not codified
2023-28      3-13-2023   TSO Table D
2023-29      3-13-2023   Not codified
2023-30      3-13-2023   Not codified
2023-31      3-13-2023   Not codified
2023-32      3-13-2023   Not codified
2023-33      3-13-2023   Not codified
2023-34      3-13-2023   Not codified
2023-35      3-13-2023   Not codified
2023-36      3-13-2023   Not codified
2023-37      3-13-2023   Not codified
2023-38      3-13-2023   Not codified
2023-39      3-13-2023   Not codified
2023-40      3-13-2023   Not codified
2023-41      3-13-2023   Not codified
                         121.01 -
2023-42      3-13-2023   121.04,
                         121.06 -
                         121.08
2023-43      3-13-2023   Not codified
2023-45      4-10-2023   TSO Table D
2023-46      4-10-2023   TSO Table D
2023-47      4-10-2023   Not codified
2023-48      4-10-2023   Not codified
2023-49      5-8-2023    TSO Table D
2023-50      5-8-2023    Not codified
2023-51      5-8-2023    Not codified
2023-52      5-8-2023    Not codified
2023-53      5-8-2023    Not codified
2023-54      5-8-2023    Not codified
2023-55      6-5-2023    Not codified
2023-56      7-10-2023   TSO Table I
2023-57      7-10-2023   Not codified
2023-58      6-12-2023   TSO Table E
2023-59      6-12-2023   Not codified
2023-60      6-12-2023   Not codified
2023-61      6-12-2023   Not codified
2023-62      8-14-2023   Not codified
2023-63      7-10-2023   Not codified
2023-64      7-10-2023   Not codified
2023-65      7-10-2023   Not codified
2023-66      7-10-2023   Not codified
2023-67      8-14-2023   TSO Table D
2023-68      8-14-2023   TSO Table B
2023-69      8-14-2023   Not codified
2023-70      8-14-2023   Not codified
2023-71      8-14-2023   Not codified
2023-72      8-14-2023   Not codified
2023-79      10-9-2023   Not codified
2023-80      10-9-2023   Not codified
2023-81      10-9-2023   Not codified
2023-82      10-9-2023   Not codified
2023-83      10-9-2023   Not codified
2023-84      10-9-2023   Not codified
2023-85      10-9-2023   Not codified
2023-86      10-9-2023   Not codified
2023-87      10-9-2023   Not codified
2023-89      10-9-2023   Not codified
2023-90      11-13-2023  TSO Table D
2023-91      11-13-2023  TSO Table D
2023-92      11-13-2023  TSO Table D
2023-93      11-13-2023  TSO Table D
2023-94      11-13-2023  TSO Table D
2023-95      11-13-2023  Not codified
2023-96      11-13-2023  Not codified
2023-97      11-13-2023  TSO Table F
2023-98      11-13-2023  Not codified
2023-99      11-13-2023  Not codified
2023-100     11-13-2023  Not codified
2023-101     11-13-2023  Not codified
2023-102     11-13-2023  Not codified
2023-103     11-13-2023  Not codified
2023-104     11-13-2023  Not codified
2023-105     11-13-2023  Not codified
2023-106     11-13-2023  Not codified
2023-107     11-13-2023  Not codified
2023-108     1-8-2024    TSO Table I
2023-109     1-8-2024    Not codified
2023-110     12-11-2023  TSO Table B
2023-111     12-11-2023  Not codified
2023-112     12-11-2023  205.01
2023-113     12-11-2023  Not codified
2023-114     12-11-2023  Not codified
2023-115     12-11-2023  Not codified
2023-116     12-11-2023  Not codified
2023-117     12-11-2023  Not codified
 
