CODIFIED ORDINANCES
OF THE CITY OF
OAKWOOD, OHIO
Local legislation current through December 1, 2025
State legislation current through June 5, 2025
 
DISCLAIMER
   The Codified Ordinances and other documents that appear in this FOLIO Infobase
may not reflect the most current legislation adopted by the Municipality. The
Codified Ordinances are provided for informational purposes only and should not be
relied upon as the definitive authority for local legislation. Additionally, the
formatting and pagination of the posted documents vary from the formatting and
pagination of the official copy. The official printed copy of the Codified
Ordinances should be consulted prior to any action being taken.
   For further information regarding the official version of any portion of the
Codified Ordinances in this FOLIO Infobase, please contact the Municipality
directly.
 
 
CONTENTS
CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF OAKWOOD, OHIO
         
CHARTER
         
PART ONE -    Administrative Code
         
PART THREE -    Traffic Code
         
PART FIVE -    General Offenses Code
         
PART SEVEN -    Business Regulation Code
         
PART NINE -    Streets and Public Services Code
         
PART TEN -      Zoning Ordinance
         
PART ELEVEN -    Subdivisions
         
PART TWELVE -   Stormwater Management Code
         
PART THIRTEEN -   Building Code
         
PART FIFTEEN -    Fire Prevention Code
         
PART SEVENTEEN - Property Maintenance Code
 
 
 
 
CHARTER   
FOR THE
CITY OF OAKWOOD
IN MONTGOMERY COUNTY
OHIO
EDITOR'S NOTE: The present Oakwood City Charter was approved by the voters at
an election on May 3, 1960. It was amended by the voters at an election on
November 8, 1988.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREAMBLE  
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION, POWERS, FORM OF GOVERNMENT
   
1.01 .    Incorporation.
   
1.02 .    Powers.
   
1.03.     Manner of Exercise of Powers.
   
1.04.    Form of Government.
ARTICLE II. THE CITY COUNCIL
   
2.01 .    Numbers, Selection, Term.
   
2.02 .    Qualifications.
   
2.03.     Vacancies, Creation of.
   
2.04.     Vacancies, Filling of.
   
2.05.     Salary of Council Members.
   
2.06.     Election Contests.
   
2.07.     Rules, Journal.
   
2.08.     Powers of Council.
   
2.09 .    Meetings of Council.
   
2.10.     Mayor and Vice Mayor.
   
2.11 .    Clerk of Council.
ARTICLE III. ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
   
3.01.  Action of Council.
   
3.02 . Introduction of Ordinances.
   
3.03 . Passage of Ordinances.
   
3.04 . Effective Date.
   
3.05 . Publication of Ordinances.
   
3.06 . Initiative and Referendum.
   
3.07.  Adoption of Ordinances by Reference.
   
3.08.  Resolutions.
ARTICLE IV. CITY MANAGER   
   
4.01 .    Appointment of City Manager.
   
4.02 .    Duties of the City Manager.
   
4.03.    Absence or Disability of the City Manager.
   
4.04 .    Removal of the City Manager.
   
4.05 .    Council; Relation to City Manager.
ARTICLE V. ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
   
5.01.     Creation of Departments.
   
5.02 .    Department Heads.
   
5.03 .    Departmental Divisions.
   
5.04 .    Administrative Code.
   
5.05 .    Central Purchasing.
   
5.06 .    Competitive Bidding.
   
5.07.     Over-expenditures.
   
5.08.     Personal Interest.
   
5.09 .    Illegal Contracts Voidable.
   
5.10 .    Qualifications of Director of Law.
   
5.11 .    Department of Finance.
   
5.12 .    Department of Safety.
ARTICLE VI. FINANCE.
   
6.01.     Annual Tax Budget.
   
6.02.     Public Inspection and Hearing on Tax Budget.
   
6.03 .    Tax Levies.
   
6.04 .    Revision of Tax Budget.
   
6.05 .    Annual Appropriation Ordinance.
   
6.06 .    Effect of Appropriation Ordinance.
   
6.07 .    Amendment of Appropriations.
ARTICLE VII. BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
   
7.01.    Planning Commission.
   
7.02 .    Board of Zoning Appeals.
   
7.03 .    Board of Health.
ARTICLE VIII. PERSONNEL
   
8.01 .    Merit System Established.
   
8.02 .    Exempt Positions.
   
8.03.    Personnel Officer.
   
8.04 .    Personnel Appeals Board.
   
8.05 .    Duties of Personnel Appeals Board.
   
8.06 .    Candidacy for Partisan Office.
   
8.07 .    Assessments and Contributions.
   
8.08 .    Penalties.
   
8.09.     Promotional Examinations.
ARTICLE IX. BORROWING.   
   
9.01 .    Power to Incur Debt.
   
9.02 .    Mortgage Revenue Bonds.
   
9.03.     Special Assessment Bonds.
   
9.04.     Tax Anticipation Notes.
   
9.05 .    Emergency Borrowing.
   
9.06     Procedure in Bond Issues.
ARTICLE X. NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
   
10.01.    Municipal Elections.
   
10.02 .   Conduct of Elections.
   
10.03 . Nominations.
   
10.04 . Sponsors, Acceptances, Verifications.
   
10.05 Ballots.
   
10.06.  Write-ins.
   
10.07 . Watchers and Challengers.
   
10.08.  Plurality, Tie Votes.
   
10.09 . Public Information on Issues.
   
10.10 . Recall.
ARTICLE XI. GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
11.01.  Oath of Office.
   
11.02 . Official Bonds.
   
11.03.  Fees.
   
11.04 . Removal from Office.
   
11.05 . Enforcement of Subpoenas.
   
11.06.  Amendments to the Charter.
   
11.07 . Severability Clause.
   
11.08 . Publication.
   
11.09    Fiscal Year.
   
11.10 . Incorporation of General Law.
ARTICLE XII. TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
   
12.01 . Fiscal Succession.
   
12.02 . Continuation of Ordinances.
   
12.03 . Continuation of Officers.
   
12.04 . Continuation of Employees.
   
12.05.  Transfer of Records and Property.
   
12.06. Continuation of Contracts and Improvements.
   
12.07.  Pending Actions and Proceedings.
   
12.08 . When Charter Takes Effect.
   
12.09.  Continuation of Council.
   
12.10 . Transfer of Finance Functions.
   
12.11 . Distribution of Personnel Functions.
CHARTER
FOR THE
CITY OF OAKWOOD
MONTGOMERY COUNTY
OHIO
PREAMBLE
We the people of Oakwood, Montgomery County, Ohio, desirous of securing for our
City and for ourselves and our children the advantages of self-government
conferred by the home rule provisions of the Ohio Constitution, do hereby
ordain and establish the following Charter:
ARTICLE I
INCORPORATION, POWERS, FORM OF GOVERNMENT
   SECTION 1.01. INCORPORATION.
   The inhabitants of the City of Oakwood, Montgomery County, Ohio, within the
corporate limits as established at the time of the adoption of this Charter, or
as thereafter established in the manner provided by law, shall be and continue
to be a municipal corporation in perpetuity, under the name of "The City of
Oakwood". The corporation will hereinafter be referred to as "the City".
   SECTION 1.02. POWERS.
   The City shall have and may exercise all municipal powers functions, rights,
privileges, and immunities of every name and nature whatsoever, except as
prohibited by the Constitution of the United States, or the Constitution of the
State of Ohio, or as limited or restrained by this Charter or by the general
statutes of the State of Ohio relating to matters of Statewide concern. The
enumeration of specific powers in this Charter shall not be deemed exclusive,
as it is intended that in addition to the powers enumerated herein or implied
therefrom or appropriate to the exercise of such enumerated powers, the City
shall have and may exercise all other and additional powers which it would be
competent for this Charter specifically to enumerate.
   SECTION 1.03. MANNER OF EXERCISE OF POWERS.
   All powers of the City shall be vested in the officers provided for in this
Charter. Where any existing or future acquired power is not assigned to a
specific officer, it shall be deemed to be among the powers of the City
Council. All powers shall be exercised in the manner prescribed in this
Charter, or if the manner be not so prescribed, then in the manner prescribed
by ordinance. If no procedure is established either by the Charter or by
ordinance, then that provided by general State law shall be followed until the
City Council shall provide a different procedure by ordinance.
   SECTION 1.04. FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for by this Charter shall be known as "the
council-manager plan".
ARTICLE II
THE CITY COUNCIL
   SECTION 2.01. NUMBER, SELECTION, TERM.
   The City Council shall consist of five members, elected at large in the
City, for four year overlapping terms, in the manner hereinafter provided. All
elections of Council members shall be on a non-partisan ballot.
   SECTION 2.02. QUALIFICATIONS. 
   Any registered elector, who has lived in the City for two years prior to
filing his petition of candidacy, shall be eligible to have his name placed on
the ballot, if his petition is sufficient as hereinafter provided, and to serve
as a member of the Council, if elected.
   SECTION 2.03. VACANCIES, CREATION OF.    
   Once elected and sworn in, a member of Council may vacate his office:
   (1)   by resignation, accepted by a majority of the other Council members;
or
   (2)   by removal of his permanent residence to a place outside the limits of
the City; or
   (3)   by ceasing to be a qualified elector; or
   (4)   by absence, without excuse by the other members of Council, from
meetings of the Council during three consecutive months; or
   (5)   by the acceptance of and entering upon the duties of an incompatible
office; or
   (6)   by recall, as hereinafter provided; or
   (7)   by removal from office from malfeasance, as provided by law; or
   (8)   by death.
   SECTION 2.04. VACANCIES, FILLING OF.
   Vacancies in the office of Council member shall be filled within sixty days
by vote of a majority of the remaining Council members, by the selection of a
person qualified as provided in Section
2.02  hereof. Such person so chosen shall serve until the next regular
municipal election occurring not less than one hundred days after selection. At
such election a successor shall be elected to serve for the unexpired term, if
any; if not, for a full term.
   SECTION 2.05. SALARY OF COUNCIL MEMBERS. 
   The members of the Council in office at the time of the adoption of this
Charter shall continue to receive the salary which was in effect on the
effective date of this Charter. The Council may, however, fix a different
salary to be paid to their successors in office provided that no increase shall
be paid unless the ordinance establishing it shall have been passed at least
one hundred days before a regular municipal election, at which a majority of
the Council members are to be elected. Members of Council may be reimbursed for
reasonable expenses incurred in connection with their duties."
   SECTION 2.06. ELECTION CONTESTS.
   The Council shall be the sole judge of the election and qualifications of
its own members, and for such purposes shall have power by subpoena to compel
the attendance of witnesses and the production of ballots and records.
   
   SECTION 2.07. RULES, JOURNAL. 
   The Council shall adopt and may amend its own rules of procedure, in
conformity with the provisions of this Charter. It shall cause to be kept a
journal of its proceedings, which shall be a public record.
   SECTION 2.08. POWERS OF THE COUNCIL.
   Among other powers the Council shall have the authority to:
   (1)   adopt ordinances and resolutions on any subject within the scope of
its powers, and to provide penalties for the violation thereof;
   (2)   establish the internal organization, staffing and compensation of the
departments, boards and commissions created by this Charter; set up such
additional departments, boards or commission as it may deem necessary and
determine their powers and duties;
   (3)   adopt and modify the master plan for the City and an official map of
the City;
   (4)   regulate the use of private real estate in the City by establishing
zones, limiting the uses in each zone, and limiting the height of buildings and
the intensity of land use;
   (5)   adopt a subdivision platting ordinance and approve subdivision plats
which conform thereto;
   (6)   enact a comprehensive building code;
   (7)   authorize the levy of taxes and the issuance of bonds as provided in
this Charter;
   (8)   adopt an annual appropriation ordinance based on the annual budget,
and delegate its enforcement to the City Manager;
   (9)   appoint and remove the City Manager, establish his salary, and appoint
an Acting City Manager when necessary to expedite public business;
   (10)   inquire into the conduct of any City officer or employee in the
performance of his public functions;
   (11)   make investigations of any office, department or agency of the City;
   (12)   grant public utility franchises by votes of 4/5 of Council;
   (13)   appoint and remove the members of the City Planning Commission, the
Zoning Board of Appeals, the Board of Health and any other board or commission
created by ordinance;
   (14)   employ a Certified Public Accountant to audit the accounts of the
City or any officer or department thereof, whenever such audit is deemed
necessary;
   (15)   issue subpoenas for witnesses and to require the production of books
and papers which may be necessary in the conduct of any hearing or
investigation.
   SECTION 2.09. MEETINGS OF COUNCIL.
   The Council shall hold its first or organization meeting on the first Monday
of January of each even numbered year, or, if such day falls upon a public
holiday, then on the following day. At such meeting the newly elected members
of Council shall take the oath of office and Council shall proceed to elect a
Mayor and a Vice Mayor and may transact such other business as may come before
it. Thereafter, meetings shall be held as prescribed in the Council rules, but
not less frequently than every other month. All meetings of Council shall be
open to the public, but portions of the meetings may be used for executive
sessions to the extent allowed by Ohio statutes or by ordinance.
   SECTION 2.10. MAYOR AND VICE MAYOR. 
   Council shall select biennially from among its members one to serve as Mayor
and one as Vice Mayor for a term of two years and until their successors are
chosen and qualified as such. The Mayor shall preside at Council meetings, when
present, and shall have a vote on all matters which come before Council, but
shall have no power of veto. He shall be the ceremonial head of the City, but
shall exercise no administrative authority. The Vice Mayor shall preside over
the meetings of Council when the Mayor is absent and shall perform such other
duties as may be assigned to him by ordinance. The Mayor may be paid an
allowance for expenses incurred in connection with his duties as Mayor, in
addition to his salary as a member of Council, as may be fixed by ordinance.
   SECTION 2.11. CLERK OF COUNCIL.
   There shall be a Clerk of Council, selected by vote of a majority of the
members of Council from outside its membership, to serve until his successor is
chosen and enters upon the duties of his office. He shall give notice of
Council meetings, keep the journal, advertise public hearings, record in a
separate book all ordinances and resolutions approved by Council and see that
such enactments are published as required by this Charter. He shall perform
such other duties as may be assigned to him by this Charter or by ordinance. He
may be appointed to serve full time or part time and Council may assign the
duties of Clerk of Council to any employee of the City as an additional duty.
The Clerk of Council shall receive a salary for his services as such, as
established by ordinance.
ARTICLE III
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
   SECTION 3.01. ACTION OF COUNCIL.
   Action of Council shall be by ordinance or resolution, except that non-
legislative and procedural actions may be taken by oral motion recorded in the
Council minutes. Every action of a general or permanent nature, or granting a
franchise, or levying a tax, or appropriating money, or contracting an
indebtedness to be evidence by the issuance of bonds or notes, or for the
purchase, lease or transfer of public property, shall be taken formally by
ordinance, in the manner provided.
   SECTION 3.02. INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance shall be passed without the concurrence of a majority of all
members elected to Council, except that emergency ordinances, as hereinafter
provided, shall require concurrence of three-fourths of all members elected to
Council for passage. Before passage every ordinance shall be fully and
distinctly read on two different days, unless an emergency is declared as
hereinafter provided, or unless by three-fourths vote of all members elected to
Council, a reading thereof in full on two different days is dispensed with, in
which cases such ordinance may be read one time and passed on the day of such
reading. Any ordinance may contain a number of separate legislative sections as
long as they deal with the same general subject or with the same code within
the Codified Ordinances, e.g., the Traffic Code or Building Code.
   SECTION 3.03. PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance shall be passed without the concurrence of a majority of all
members elected to Council, except that emergency ordinances, as hereinafter
provided, shall require concurrence of three-fourths of all members elected to
Council for passage. Before passage, copies of every ordinance shall be made
available to the audience; and the title of the ordinance shall be read on two
different days unless an emergency is declared as provided in Section
3.04, or unless by three-fourths vote of all members of Council it is
determined to read the ordinance by title only once, in which case the
ordinance may be passed on that day.
   SECTION 3.04. EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Ordinances providing for appropriations for current expenses of the
municipality, or for public improvements petitioned for by the owners of a
majority of the foot frontage of property benefitted and to be specially
assessed for the cost thereof, or for raising revenue, or ordinances wherein an
emergency is declared to exist, shall become effective immediately upon passage
or at such later date as may be provided therein, and such ordinances shall not
be subject to referendum. All other ordinances shall take effect thirty days
after passage. An emergency ordinance as referred to herein is one which must
be passed and made effective at once or in less than thirty days to meet an
emergency in the operation of the City government, or which is necessary for
the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety, morals, or
welfare. An emergency ordinance must contain therein a separate section setting
forth the reason for the emergency. No ordinance granting a franchise or fixing
a rate to be charged by a public utility shall be passed as an emergency
ordinance.
   SECTION 3.05. PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   After passage, ordinances of a general nature, or providing for public
improvements, shall be published in summary form one time, in a newspaper of
general circulation in the City, within ten days after passage. Such summary
shall consist of a brief statement of the purpose and effect of the ordinance.
Provided, however, the Council may provide, by ordinance, in lieu of the
aforesaid publication in summary form, that all such ordinances, or any
particular such ordinance, may be published in one of the following ways:
   (1)   By publication at length, in a code of revised ordinances which is
made available to the public in the office of the Clerk of Council.
   (2)   In the case of appropriation ordinances, by reproduction and
distribution to the members of Council, to department heads, to City boards and
commissions, and to all citizens who may apply for copies at the office of the
Clerk of Council.
(See CHTR.
11.08  which defines what constitutes sufficient publication.)
   SECTION 3.06. INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, ordinances may be proposed and
submitted to popular vote by initiative and referendum under the procedure set
forth in Sections 731.28 to 731.40 of the Ohio Revised Code. Whenever Council
is required to pass more than one ordinance or resolution to complete the
legislation necessary to complete and pay for any public improvement, the
referendum shall apply only to the first ordinance or resolution to be passed
and not to any subsequent ordinance or resolution in the series relating
thereto.
   SECTION 3.07. ADOPTION OF ORDINANCES BY REFERENCE.
   Council may adopt model or standard codes prepared and published by public
or private agencies on such matters as fire prevention, building construction,
electrical wiring, plumbing, heating, ventilating, air conditioning and other
similar topics by reference to the date and source of the code without
reproducing it at length in the ordinance. However, if Council desires to
modify, add to or eliminate from any such code any section or part thereof,
such addition, modification or omission shall be clearly stated in the
ordinance. In all cases in which such a code shall be adopted by reference,
publication of the code, at length, by the City, shall not be required. One
copy of each such code must be kept in the administrative offices of the City
for review by interested persons during regular hours, and additional copies
may be purchased through the City, at cost.
   SECTION 3.08. RESOLUTIONS.
   Action by Council which is not required by this charter to be taken by
ordinance may be taken by resolution. Such a resolution shall be introduced in
writing by a member of Council, and may be adopted by a viva voce vote of a
majority of a quorum. No waiting period, notice, hearing or publication shall
be required and a resolution shall become effective upon its adoption. However,
the Clerk of Council shall record resolutions in a separate book, which shall
be a public record.
ARTICLE IV
CITY MANAGER
   SECTION 4.01. APPOINTMENT OF CITY MANAGER.
   The Council shall appoint, by majority vote of all members elected thereto,
an officer of the City who shall have the title of City Manager. The City
Manager shall be chosen by Council solely on the basis of his executive and
administrative qualifications in the profession of city management, as judged
by the adequacy of his technical training and his successful experience in
public administration. At the time of his appointment he need not be a resident
of the City or State, but during his tenure of office he shall reside in the
City. No Council member shall be eligible for appointment as City Manager
during the term for which he has been elected, or for one year thereafter. The
residency requirement may be suspended by the Council for a temporary period
when a City Manager is first hired.
   SECTION 4.02. DUTIES OF THE CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager shall be the chief executive and administrative officer of
the City. He shall be responsible to Council for the proper administration of
all affairs of the City and, to that end, subject to the provisions of this
Charter, he shall have authority and shall be required to:
   (1)   see that this Charter and the ordinances and resolutions of the City
are faithfully observed and enforced;
   (2)   appoint, and when necessary for the good of the service, remove all
officers and employees of the City, not selected or appointed by Council, in
the manner provided in this Charter;
   (3)   prepare the tax budget and the annual budget, submit them to Council
for approval, and administer the appropriations made by Council;
   (4)   prepare and submit to Council and to the public annually, not later
than March 31, a complete report on the finances and administrative activities
of the City for the preceding year; this report shall be deemed to satisfy the
requirements of Section 117.19 of the Ohio Revised Code without separate
publications of the financial statement;
   (5)   keep Council informed of the current financial condition and future
needs of the City;
   (6)   sign all contracts, bonds and notes on behalf of the City;
   (7)   serve as an ex officio member, (without vote) of the Planning
Commission and the Board of Health;
   (8)   appoint such citizen advisory committees as seem to him desirable and
discharge them when in his judgment their function has been completely served;
   (9)   delegate to subordinate officers and employees of the City any duties
conferred upon him by this Charter or by action of Council, and hold them
responsible for the faithful discharge of such duties; and
   (10)   perform such other duties, not inconsistent with this Charter, as may
be required by Council.
   SECTION 4.03. ABSENCE OR DISABILITY OF THE CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager may designate, by letter filed with the Clerk of Council,
any qualified administrative officer of the City to perform his duties during
his temporary absence or disability. If such a designation has not been made,
and the City Manager is unable to perform his duties or to make such a
designation, the Council may, by resolution, appoint any qualified
administrative officer of the City to perform the duties of the City Manager
until he shall return or his disability cease.
   SECTION 4.04. REMOVAL OF THE CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager shall serve for an indefinite term, subject to removal by
Council at any time by a majority vote of all the members elected thereto. At
least thirty days before such removal shall become effective, Council shall
adopt a preliminary resolution stating the reasons for the removal. The City
Manager may reply in writing and may request a public hearing, which shall be
held not earlier than twenty days nor later than thirty days after the filing
of the request, before the full Council. After such public hearing, if one is
requested, after full consideration, Council may adopt a final resolution of
removal. By the preliminary resolution Council may suspend the City Manager
from duty and designate an Acting City Manager, but shall cause to be paid to
the City Manager forthwith any salary due him up to the date of his suspension.
Upon removal, unless for misconduct of the City Manager involving moral
turpitude, he shall be paid his salary for the period of suspension from duty
and for the next two months following the removal. In case of the voluntary
resignation of the City Manager, Council and the City Manager shall agree upon
the effective date of the resignation.
   SECTION 4.05. COUNCIL; RELATION TO CITY MANAGER.
   Except for the purpose of inquiry or investigation, the members of Council
shall deal with the administrative employees of the City solely through the
City Manager. No member of Council shall take the initiative in the appointment
or removal of officers or employees subordinate to the City Manager. Neither
Council nor any member or committee thereof shall give any orders to a
subordinate of the City Manager either publicly or privately. Any Council
member who violates any of the provisions of this section or votes for any
ordinance or resolution in violation thereof shall be guilty of malfeasance in
office and upon conviction thereof he shall cease to be Council member and
shall be ineligible to hold further office or employment in the City
government.
ARTICLE V
ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
   SECTION 5.01. CREATION OF DEPARTMENTS.
   The activities of the City shall be carried on by such departments as the
Council may create by ordinance, after consultation with the City Manager.
   SECTION 5.02. DEPARTMENT HEADS. 
   At the head of each department there shall be a full time or part time
director appointed by the City Manager with the approval of Council. Each
director shall be an administrative officer of the City. He shall have
supervision and control of the department heads subject to the direction of the
City Manager. Two or more departments may be headed by the same person and the
City Manager may serve as the director of one or more departments in addition
to his duties as City Manager, if the Council approves.
   SECTION 5.03. DEPARTMENTAL DIVISIONS.    
   The work of each department shall be distributed among such divisions
thereto as may be established by the administrative code. Pending the adoption
of such a code by Council, the City Manager may establish temporary divisions
by administrative order.
   SECTION 5.04. ADMINISTRATIVE CODE.
   Subject to the provisions of this Charter, and after consultation with the
City Manger, Council shall adopt an administrative code which shall provide in
detail the organization of the municipal government, define the powers and
duties of each organization unit, and determine the administrative procedures
to be followed. Council may delegate to the City Manager and he to the heads of
departments, power to make rules and regulations to govern management
practices, consistent with the administrative code. Amendments to and revisions
of the administrative code shall be made by Council only after consultation
with the City Manager. Where the administrative code is silent, the officers
and employees of the City shall have and may exercise all powers and duties
provided for similar officers and employees by State law. However, provisions
of the administrative code shall supersede those of State law in case of
conflict.
   SECTION 5.05. CENTRAL PURCHASING.
   Council shall establish a purchasing agency either as a separate office or
as a division of one of the departments created by this Charter, whose duty it
shall be to contract for, purchase, store, and distribute all supplies,
printing, materials, equipment and contractual services required by an agency
of the City, within the appropriations made by Council. Council may designate
the City Manager as purchasing agent, but in any case the City Manager shall be
responsible for supervising the purchasing function.
   SECTION 5.06. COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   Purchase of all supplies, materials and equipment for the City shall be made
through competitive procedures provided by ordinance, subject to exceptions in
cases of public emergency declared by four-fifths vote of Council.
   SECTION 5.07. OVER-EXPENDITURES.
   No officer, department or agency of the City shall expend or contract to
expend any money or incur any liability, or enter into any contract which by
its terms involves the expenditure of money on behalf of the City for any
purpose in excess of the amounts appropriated for such expenditures and
obligations. The officer or employee who knowingly attempts or purports to
create such an obligation shall be guilty of malfeasance in office and upon
conviction thereof shall be removed from office. However, nothing in this
section shall prevent the making of contracts not to be fully performed within
the fiscal year when specifically authorized by Council.
   SECTION 5.08. PERSONAL INTEREST. 
   The Ohio ethics laws and other state statutes as to conflicts of interest
shall be the minimum standards applying to all contracts with the City and all
sales to the City of any materials, supplies, equipment, land or any interest
in land.
   SECTION 5.09. ILLEGAL CONTRACTS VOIDABLE.
   Whenever any contract is found to be illegal, for the reasons stated in
Sections
5.07  or
5.08  and the City has received the goods or property involved, Council may, by
resolution, elect to rescind the contract, and return the goods or property or
retain them, paying for them not at the contract price, but at their fair
value, provided such value is not in excess of the contract price. If payment
has already been made, the City shall be entitled to recover the excess, if
any, over the fair value.
   SECTION 5.10. QUALIFICATIONS OF DIRECTOR OF LAW.
   The director of the Department of Law shall be known as the City Attorney.
He shall be an attorney-at-law, admitted to practice before the Supreme Court
of Ohio, and in good professional standing. He shall perform such duties as may
be assigned to the office of city solicitor by law, as well as those imposed by
the administrative code.
   SECTION 5.11. DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE.
   The Department of Finance shall perform those functions customarily
performed by the auditor and the treasurer under State law. The Director of
Finance shall be the fiscal officer of the City and shall be responsible for
accounting, collection and custody of public funds, and control over
disbursements. He shall countersign all bonds and notes issued by the City and
shall perform such other functions as may be assigned by ordinance or by order
of the City Manager.
   SECTION 5.12. DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY.
   The Department of Safety shall have and perform such functions as may be
assigned by ordinance or by order of the City Manager. Notwithstanding any
provisions of State law, the Council may establish a unified police and fire
service in which both types of service are rendered by the same personnel.
ARTICLE VI
FINANCE
   SECTION 6.01. ANNUAL TAX BUDGET.
   On or before the first day of June in each year the City Manager shall
submit to Council a tax budget for the ensuing fiscal year. For that purpose,
at such date as he shall determine, he shall obtain from the head of each
department or agency of the City, plans for the work to be undertaken by such
agency during the next fiscal year, together with estimates of the cost of
performing such work. The Department of Finance shall supply him with estimates
of available revenue. From these data, the City Manager shall prepare the
consolidated estimates for the annual tax budget. Council shall consider these
estimates and adopt them, with or without amendments, as the tax budget of the
City for the ensuing year, and transmit them, on or before the 15th day of July
to the County Budget Commission, in the form required by law.
   SECTION 6.02. PUBLIC INSPECTION AND HEARING ON TAX BUDGET.
   At least two copies of the tax budget estimates shall be placed on file in
the office of the Director of Finance for public inspection. Council shall hold
at least one public hearing on the tax budget, of which notice shall be given
by publication not less than ten days prior to the hearing.
   SECTION 6.03. TAX LEVIES. 
   Upon receipt of advice of action by the County Budget Commission and the
Certificate of the County Auditor as to estimated resources, Council shall pass
and certify to the County Auditor an ordinance levying the necessary taxes to
be placed upon the tax duplicate.
   
   SECTION 6.04. REVISION OF TAX BUDGET.
   The City Manager shall prepare and submit to Council each year a budget so
revised that the total contemplated work program and expenditures from each
fund during the ensuing fiscal year shall not exceed the total recommended
appropriations from each fund and the total estimated resources certified by
the County Budget Commission and the County Auditor. This revised budget shall
serve as the basis for the annual appropriation ordinance.
   
   SECTION 6.05. ANNUAL APPROPRIATION ORDINANCE.
   At the meeting of Council at which the revised budget estimates for the
appropriation ordinance are submitted, Council shall adopt the estimates as
submitted, or as amended, as the appropriation ordinance of the City for the
ensuing fiscal year.
   SECTION 6.06. EFFECT OF APPROPRIATION ORDINANCE.
   Upon adoption, the appropriation ordinance shall become effective as of the
first day of January and shall constitute an appropriation of the several items
and approval of the work projects without further legislation.
   SECTION 6.07. AMENDMENT OF APPROPRIATIONS.
   Council, on recommendation of the City Manager, may at any time, by
ordinance, transfer any unencumbered balance of an appropriation from one item
or project to another under the same fund, or reduce or increase any item,
provided the ordinance as amended does not authorize the expenditure of more
money than is estimated will be available.
ARTICLE VII
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
   SECTION 7.01. PLANNING COMMISSION.
   There shall be a City Planning Commission consisting of five members, four
of whom shall be citizens who hold no other City office or employment, selected
by Council one each year for overlapping terms of four years and one of whom
shall be a member of Council, designated annually by Council. The Commission
shall adopt its own rules, and elect its own officers annually. It shall have
all the power and authority conferred upon city planning commissions by State
law and such other duties as may be imposed upon it by the administrative code.
Its members shall serve without compensation.
   
   SECTION 7.02. BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   There shall be a Board of Zoning Appeals consisting of five members who
shall be citizens who hold no other City office or employment, selected by
Council one each year for overlapping terms of five years. The Board shall
adopt its own rules and elect its own officers annually. It shall have all the
power and authority conferred upon boards of zoning appeals by State law and
such other duties as may be imposed upon it by ordinance. Its members shall
serve without compensation.
   SECTION 7.03. BOARD OF HEALTH.
   There shall be a Board of Health of the City Health District composed of
five members who shall be citizens who hold no other public office or
employment selected by Council one each year for overlapping terms of five
years. At least one members shall be a physician admitted to practice in Ohio
and in good professional standing. The Board shall adopt its own rules and
elects its own officers annually. It shall have all the power and authority
conferred upon city boards of health by State law and such other duties as may
be imposed upon it by the State sanitary code and the City ordinances. Its
members shall serve without compensation.
ARTICLE VIII
PERSONNEL
   SECTION 8.01. MERIT SYSTEM ESTABLISHED. 
   Appointments and promotions in the administrative service of the City shall
be made according to merit, to be ascertained, so far as practicable, by open
competitive examinations.
   SECTION 8.02. EXEMPT POSITIONS.
   All positions in the service of the City shall be filled pursuant to open
competitive examinations except:
   (1)   members of Council;
   (2)   the Clerk of Council;
   (3)   the City Manager;
   (4)   the directors of departments;
   (5)   the secretary of the City Manager;
   (6)   the assistant to the City Manager;
   (7)   members of boards and commissions appointed by Council, and advisory
committees appointed by the City Manager.
   (8)   temporary employees of exceptional, professional or scientific
qualifications engaged as consultants;
   (9)   unskilled laborers; and
   (10)   seasonal and part time employees.
   Council may act by ordinance to designate other positions which may be
filled (by original appointment or by promotion) without necessity of such
examinations.
   SECTION 8.03. PERSONNEL OFFICER.
   The City Manager shall appoint a suitably qualified person to serve part or
full time as Personnel Officer. He shall:
   (1)   conduct recruitment of qualified persons;
   (2)    prepare, schedule and hold examinations;
   (3)    create eligible lists from results of examinations;
   (4)   certify eligibles to appointing officers;
   (5)   classify positions and establish job specifications;
   (6)   certify payrolls;
   (7)   develop and conduct training programs;
   (8)   prepare and recommend to the City Manager for approval and
publication, necessary rules to establish and maintain the merit system in the
City; and
   (9)   perform such other duties relating to personnel as the City Manager
may direct.
   SECTION 8.04. PERSONNEL APPEALS BOARD.
   There shall be a Personnel Appeals Board consisting of three members who
shall be selected by Council, one each year for an overlapping term of three
years. Each member of the Personnel Appeals Board shall be a qualified elector,
known to be in sympathy with the merit principle as applied to the civil
service, shall neither hold nor be a candidate for any public office or
employment and shall not be a member of any local, state or national committee
of a political party or an officer in any partisan political club or
organization.
   SECTION 8.05. DUTIES OF PERSONNEL APPEALS BOARD.
   The Personnel Appeals Board shall hear appeals from City employees in the
non-exempt service who are not part of a grievance procedure under a labor
contract and who have been suspended, demoted in position or compensation, or
discharged. The Board shall have such other powers and duties as may be
assigned by ordinance. The Board shall make its own rules, choose its own
officers, and have authority to subpoena witnesses and to require the
production of records.
   SECTION 8.06. CANDIDACY FOR PARTISAN OFFICE.
   No officer or employee in the non-exempt service of the City shall continue
therein after becoming a candidate for nomination or election to any partisan
public office.
   SECTION 8.07. ASSESSMENTS AND CONTRIBUTIONS.
   No person shall orally or in writing solicit or be in any manner concerned
with the soliciting of any assessment, subscription or contribution of any type
for any political party or partisan political purpose whatsoever from any
person holding a position in the non-exempt service of the City. No person
holding a position in the non-exempt service of the City shall make any
contribution to the campaign funds of any political party or any candidate for
nomination or election to any partisan political office, or take any part in
the management, affairs or campaign of any political party further than in the
exercise of his right as a citizen to express his opinion and cast his vote.
   SECTION 8.08. PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates the provisions of Section
8.06  or
8.07  of this Charter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, if an officer
or employee of the City be guilty of malfeasance in office and upon conviction
shall be removed from the office or position he holds and shall be ineligible
for election or appointment to any position in the City service for a period of
five years.
   SECTION 8.09. PROMOTIONAL EXAMINATIONS.
   Whenever a vacancy occurs in any position in the service of the City, which
is not exempted under the provisions of Section
8.02 of this Charter it shall be filled in the manner provided in the personnel
ordinance. Promotional examinations may be restricted to present employees, or
if recommended by the City Manager, they may be opened to qualified candidates
from outside the City service, by resolution of Council. The names of the three
eligibles standing highest on the promotional list shall be certified to the
appointing authority and he shall appoint one of the three so certified, as may
be provided by ordinance.
ARTICLE IX
BORROWING
   SECTION 9.01. POWER TO INCUR DEBT.
   Council may, by ordinance, issue general bonds to an amount not exceeding
two and one-half percent of the assessed valuation of real, personal, and
public utility property within the City, for any purpose for which bond issues
are authorized by State law. Issuance of general obligation bonds beyond two
and one-half percent and up to seven and one-half percent of the assessed
valuation shall be dependent upon the approval of such issuance by the voters,
as provided by law. Mortgage revenue bonds and special assessment bonds shall
not be included in calculating the above percentages of the net debt.
   SECTION 9.02. MORTGAGE REVENUE BONDS. 
   Council may, by ordinance, issue mortgage revenue bonds for any purpose and
in any total amount authorized by State law, following the procedure
established by statute.
   SECTION 9.03. SPECIAL ASSESSMENT BONDS.
   Council may, by ordinance, determine to proceed with a public improvement,
all or part of the cost of which is to be assessed against real property
specially benefitted thereby. Council may establish by ordinance, the procedure
to be followed in making such assessment and may in any case determine the
proportion of the cost of such improvement which shall be paid from general
receipts, taxes, bond or note issues and that which shall be assessed. It may
also fix the manner and duration of the payment of special assessments.
   SECTION 9.04. TAX ANTICIPATION NOTES.
   Council may, by ordinance, issue notes in anticipation of the collection of
taxes on whatever conditions may seem reasonable. Such notes shall be paid from
the tax receipts of the year in which they are issued.
   SECTION 9.05. EMERGENCY BORROWING.
   Council may, by ordinance, borrow money and issue notes in case of public
emergency as authorized by Section 133.29 of the Ohio Revised Code.
   SECTION 9.06. PROCEDURE IN BOND ISSUES.
   The procedure followed in authorizing and issuing bonds and applying the
proceeds shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Uniform Bond Law of
the State of Ohio in effect at the time.
ARTICLE X
NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
   
   SECTION 10.01. MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   The regular election for the choice of members of Council shall be held on
the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November in the odd numbered years.
This shall be known as the municipal election. Council may, by resolution,
order a special election at any time, the purpose of which shall be set forth
in the resolution.
   SECTION 10.02. CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS.
   Both regular and special municipal elections shall be conducted by the Board
of Elections of Montgomery County, Ohio, under the provisions of this Charter.
Where the Charter is silent, the provisions of the State election law shall be
followed.
   SECTION 10.03. NOMINATIONS.
   No primary election shall be held for the nomination of candidates for
Council. Nominations for the office of Council member shall be made by petition
signed by not less than seventy five nor more than 150 electors of the City.
Petitions shall be the standard forms for the nomination of individual non-
partisan candidates for such office. Group petitions shall not be used.
Petitions shall be filed with the Board of Elections at least ninety days
before the day of the election. An elector may sign only as many petitions as
there are Council members to be elected at the municipal election for which the
nominations are made.
   SECTION 10.04. SPONSORS, ACCEPTANCE, VERIFICATION.
   Each candidate shall have a sponsoring committee of five qualified voters,
whose names and addresses shall appear on each copy of his petition. The
signature of the candidate indicating his acceptance of the nomination and his
willingness to serve if elected shall appear on each copy of his petition. The
petition may be a number of parts, but each part shall be verified under oath
by the circulator, as required by law.
   SECTION 10.05. BALLOTS. 
   The full names of all candidates nominated shall be printed on the official
ballot without party designation. If two candidates with the same surname or
with names so similar as to be likely to cause confusion are nominated, the
addresses of their places of residence shall be placed below their names on the
ballot. The names of all candidates shall be rotated on the ballot as provided
by law. If voting machines are used, the names shall be rotated by precincts,
as provided by law.
   SECTION 10.06. WRITE-INS.
   Only in the event that fewer candidates are nominated by petition than there
are Council members to be elected at the ensuing election, space shall be
provided on the ballot for the writing in at the election of the names of
additional persons.
   SECTION 10.07. WATCHERS AND CHALLENGERS.
   At each municipal election, each regularly nominated candidate shall be
entitled, on written application to the Board of Elections, at least ten days
before the election, to appoint one person and one alternate to represent him
as a watcher and challenger at each polling place during the casting and
counting of ballots, and one person and one alternate to represent him as
watcher and challenger during the canvass of votes at the Board of Elections.
   SECTION 10.08. PLURALITY, TIE VOTES.
   A plurality of valid votes cast shall be sufficient to elect. In case of a
tie vote, the election shall be decided in the manner provided by law.
   SECTION 10.09. PUBLIC INFORMATION ON ISSUES.
   Council shall have power to appropriate and expend public funds to pay the
cost of providing information to the public in connection with elections on tax
levies, bond issues and other public questions.
   SECTION 10.10. RECALL.
   Any member of Council may be removed from office before the expiration of
his term by the qualified voters of the City. The procedure for such recall
shall be that provided in Section 705.92 of the Ohio Revised Code.
ARTICLE XI
GENERAL PROVISIONS
   SECTION 11.01. OATH OF OFFICE.
   Every officer and employee of the City shall, before entering upon his
duties, take and subscribe to the following oath or affirmation to be filled
and kept in the office of the Clerk of Council: "I solemnly swear (or affirm)
that I will support the constitution of the United States and of the State of
Ohio and will obey the laws thereof, and that I will, in all respects, uphold
and enforce the provisions of the Charter and ordinances of this City and will
faithfully discharge the duties of ___________________ upon which I am about to
enter."
   SECTION 11.02. OFFICIAL BONDS.
   All officers and employees of the City whose duties require that they handle
or be concerned with the management of its money or other property, and any
other employee required by Council to furnish a bond, shall furnish to the
Clerk of Council, before entering upon their duties, a corporate surety bond,
issued by a company authorized to do business in Ohio, to protect the City
against loss due to their acts or omissions. The amount of such bond shall, in
each case, be fixed by Council. The premium on such bonds shall be paid from
the funds of the City.
   SECTION 11.03. FEES.
   All fees received by any officer or employee of the City in connection with
his employment with the City shall be accounted for and paid into the City
Treasury, except as otherwise provided by law.
   SECTION 11.04. REMOVAL FROM OFFICE. 
   Whenever in this Charter certain acts on the part of City officials or
employees are described as constituting malfeasance in office, the procedure
for complaint, trial and judgment thereon shall be that prescribed in Sections
733.72 to 733.77 of the Ohio Revised Code.
   SECTION 11.05. ENFORCEMENT OF SUBPOENAS.
   Whenever in this Charter the Council or any other agency of the City
government is given authority to issue subpoenas or to require attendance of
witnesses or the production of books, ballots, papers and records, the same
shall be issued and enforced in the manner provided in Section 705.21 of the
Ohio Revised Code.
   SECTION 11.06. AMENDMENTS TO THE CHARTER.
   Any provision of this Charter may be amended as provided in Article XVIII,
Section 9 of the Ohio Constitution, by submission of a proposed amendment to
the voters of the City and approval by a majority of those voting on the
question of its adoption. Such amendment may be initiated either by a two-
thirds vote of Council, or by petition to Council signed by ten percent of the
electors.
   SECTION 11.07. SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
   If any section or part of section of this Charter shall be held invalid by
any court of competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect the
remainder of this Charter, which would have been adopted without the invalid
portion if its invalidity had been known at the time of its adoption.
   SECTION 11.08. PUBLICATION.
   Whenever publication of an ordinance, resolution, notice or other official
document is required by the provisions of this Charter or by any ordinance
passed thereunder, it shall be sufficient compliance with such requirement if
the publication is made in a daily or weekly newspaper published in the City or
in an adjacent municipality which has no actual circulation in the City. For
purposes of publication, an official City bulletin mailed or delivered at least
once a month to each Oakwood property having a separate water meter shall be
deemed a newspaper of general circulation in the City, except to the extent an
ordinance prohibits use of the bulletin for some particular type of
publication. Such official bulletin may be reproduced by letterpress, offset or
any other suitable method and the cost of its reproduction and distribution
shall be paid from public funds. Whenever Council so determines, official
notice may also be given by radio or television news services.
   SECTION 11.09. FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal, budget and accounting year of the City shall be the calendar
year from January 1 to December 31.
   SECTION 11.10. INCORPORATION OF GENERAL LAW.
   Whenever reference is made in this Charter to sections of the Ohio Revised
Code as governing organization or procedure of City officials or agencies, it
is declared to be the intention of the voters in approving this Charter that if
such sections should be amended in the future by the Ohio General Assembly,
such amendments shall be incorporated into this Charter also, unless the people
amend the Charter to provide a different organization or procedure from that
established by State law. If a section referred to in this Charter is repealed,
Council may, by ordinance, establish the rule to be followed.
ARTICLE XII
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
   SECTION 12.01. FISCAL SUCCESSION.
   The City of Oakwood, under this Charter, is hereby declared to be the only
legal successor to the City of Oakwood under Chapter 705 of the Ohio Revised
Code, and as such the City has title to all property, real, personal and mixed,
owned by its predecessor, including all monies on deposit and all taxes in the
process of collection together with all accounts receivable and all rights of
action. The City is also liable for all outstanding orders, contracts and debts
of its predecessor, and for any other obligations for which it may be held
liable as such successor, in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   SECTION 12.02. CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances of the City of Oakwood, in effect at the time this Charter
becomes effective, shall remain in effect, except as superseded by the
provisions of this Charter, until they are amended or repealed.
   SECTION 12.03. CONTINUATION OF OFFICERS.
   All persons holding office in this City at the time this Charter takes
effect shall continue in office, (except as specifically provided otherwise in
this Charter) until provision shall have been made, in conformity with this
Charter, for the performance of their duties by a successor, or the office is
abolished.
   SECTION 12.04. CONTINUATION OF EMPLOYEES.
   Every employee of the City when this Charter takes effect shall be retained
in his employment with the same status, rights and privileges as before.
   SECTION 12.05. TRANSFER OF RECORDS AND PROPERTY. 
   All public records and property in the custody of officers and employees of
the City at the time this Charter becomes effective shall be transferred and
delivered promptly to their successors.
   SECTION 12.06. CONTINUATION OF CONTRACTS AND IMPROVEMENTS.
   All contracts entered into by the City or for its benefit, prior to the
taking effect of this Charter shall remain in full force and effect. Public
improvements for which legislative steps have been taken under laws existing at
the time this Charter takes effect, shall be completed, as nearly as
practicable, under the provisions of such laws.
   SECTION 12.07. PENDING ACTIONS AND PROCEEDINGS.
   No action or proceeding, civil or criminal, pending in any court at the time
this Charter takes effect, brought by or against the City or any office, agency
or officer thereof, shall be abated or affected by anything herein contained,
but all such actions shall be prosecuted or defended under the laws in effect
when they were filed.
   SECTION 12.08. WHEN CHARTER TAKES EFFECT.
   This Charter shall be voted upon at a special election to be held on May 3,
1960. If approved by the voters, this Charter shall go into effect on July 1,
1960.
   SECTION 12.09. CONTINUATION OF COUNCIL.
   The members of Council in office when this Charter becomes effective shall
continue in office until the end of the terms for which they were elected when
successors shall be chosen for full terms under the provisions of this Charter.
   SECTION 12.10. TRANSFER OF FINANCE FUNCTIONS.
   The functions performed by the City Auditor and City Treasurer under the
optional law shall be transferred under this Charter to the Department of
Finance on July 1, 1960, and the offices of City Auditor and City Treasurer
shall be abolished as independent offices as of that date.
   SECTION 12.11. DISTRIBUTION OF PERSONNEL FUNCTIONS.
   The functions performed by the Civil Service Commission shall be divided
between the Personnel Officer and the Personnel Appeals Board created by this
Charter, effective July 1, 1960, and the Civil Service Commission, as it
existed under the optional law form of City government shall be abolished.
CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF OAKWOOD 
PART ONE - ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
   
TITLE ONE - General Provisions
      Chapter
101.   Explanation of Codified Ordinances
      Chapter
103.   Official Standards
   
   
TITLE THREE - Legislative
      Chapter
111.   Rules of Procedure of Council, Boards, Commissions and
            Committees
      Chapter
113.   Ordinances and Resolutions
   
TITLE FIVE - Administration
      Chapter
121.   Administration Generally
      Chapter
123.   City Manager
      Chapter
125.   Finance Department
      Chapter
127.   Department of Law
      Chapter
129.   Safety Department
      Chapter
131.   Service Department
      Chapter
135.   Water Department
      Chapter
137.   Leisure Service Department
      Chapter
139.   Clerk of Council
      Chapter
141.   Personnel Matters
      Chapter
143.   Employment Benefits
      Chapter
145.   Contracts and Purchases
      Chapter
147.   Money, Investments and Funds
      Chapter
148.   Municipal Income Tax
      Chapter
149.   Civil Preparedness
      Chapter
150.   Civil Preparedness Plan
      Chapter
151.   Disposal of City Property
      Chapter
152.   Recovery of Costs
      Chapter
153.   Permit, Inspection and Miscellaneous Fees
   
TITLE SEVEN - Boards, Commissions and Committees
      Chapter
160.   General Matters
      Chapter
161.   Board of Health
      Chapter
163.   Beautification Committee
      Chapter
167.   Sewer and Water Appeals Board
      Chapter
169.   General Appeals Board
      Chapter
171.   Leisure Services Advisory Board
      Chapter
173.   Miscellaneous Administrative Matters
      Chapter
175.   Americans with Disabilities Act
CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF OAKWOOD
PART ONE - ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
TITLE ONE - General.Provisions
Chap.
101. Explanation of Codified Ordinances.
Chap.
103. Official Standards.
CHAPTER 101
Explanation of Codified Ordinances
101.01   Designation; citation; headings.
101.02   General definitions.
101.03   Rules of construction.
101.04   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal.
101.05   Construction of section references.
101.06   Conflicting provisions.
101.07   Separability.
101.08   Sale and distribution of copies.
101.09   Corrections; revisions.
101.99   General Penalty.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Codification in book form - see ORC 731.23; CHTR. Sec.
3.05.
Imprisonment until fine and costs are paid - see ORC 1905.30, 2947.20.
Statute of limitations on prosecutions - see ORC 1905.33.
Ordinances and resolutions - see ADM. Ch..
113; CHTR. Art.
III
Attempts, aider or abettor - see GEN. OFF.
501.01 et seq.
Anything of value defined - see GEN. OFF.
537.01.
Street or highway defined - see TRAF.
301.42.
 
 
101.01 DESIGNATION; CITATION; HEADINGS.
   A.   All ordinances of the City which are of a permanent and general nature
and which have been revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated
into component codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and
designated as the Codified Ordinances of Oakwood, Ohio for which designation
"Codified Ordinances" may be substituted. Heading of any code, title, chapter
or section do not constitute any part of the legislation as contained in the
Codified Ordinances.
   B.   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to such
components of the Codified Ordinances unless otherwise specified. Any component
code may be referred to and cited by its name, such as the "Traffic Code."
Sections may be referred to and cited by the designation "Section" followed by
the number, such as "Section
101.01 ."
101.02 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   As used in the Codified Ordinances, unless otherwise expressly provided or
the context otherwise requires:
   A.   "And" may be read "or," and "or" may be read "and," if the sense
requires it.
   B.   "Another" or "person," when used to designate the owner of property
which is the subject of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also
every .other owner of property.
   C.   "Bond," when referring to a requirement that any city official or
employee furnish bond for the faithful performance of his or her duties in a
specified amount, may be provided in either of the following forms, as
determined by the City Manager upon consideration of the comparative cost to
the city:
      (1)   An individual surety instrument by which such official or employee
is bound to the city in the amount specified by law; or
      (2)   A blanket bond or policy of insurance which provides coverage to
the city against the errors and omissions of city officials and employees in
the performance of their duties. Any such blanket bond or policy of insurance
shall specify the officials and employees so covered and shall provide
aggregate coverage exceeding the highest individual bond amount specified by
ordinance by at least $200,000.00 so as to provide sufficient excess coverage
for other covered officials and/or employees.
   D.   "Council" means the legislative authority of the City.
   E.   The "County" means. Montgomery County, Ohio.
   F.   "Keeper" or "proprietor" includes all persons, whether acting by
themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
   G.   "Land" or "real estate" includes rights and easements of incorporeal
nature, tenements and hereditaments.
   H.   “Municipality" or "city" means the City of Oakwood, Ohio.
   I.   "Oath" includes an affirmation.
   J.   "Owner," when applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner
or tenant in common of the whole or part of such property.
   K.   "Person" or "whoever" includes all persons, natural and artificial,
and   includes but is not limited to private corporations, partners,
principals, agents and employees, and all officials, public or private.
   L.   "Premises," as applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   M.   "Property" includes real, personal, and mixed estates and interests
therein. "Personal property" includes all property except real. "Real
property,, has the same meaning as land or real estate.
   N.   "Public authority" includes boards of education; the City and county,
state or the federal government, the officers or an agency of any of them, or
any duly authorized public official.
   O.   "Public place" includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school
yard, body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for
the sale of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   P.   "Registered mail" includes certified mail.
   Q.   "Sidewalk" means that portion of the street right of way between the
curb lines and the adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   R.   The "state" means the State of Ohio, or any department, division,
commission, board, educational or other institution thereof.
   S.   "Street" includes every alley, avenue, boulevard, lane, road, highway,
viaduct and public thoroughfare within the City.,
   T.   For all purposes within the City other than for enforcement of the
Traffic Code, "street intersection" means the area bounded by the right-of-way
lines, real or projected, of two or more streets or highways which meet or
cross each other.
   U.   "Tenant" or "occupant," as applied to premises, includes any person
holding a written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part
of such premises, alone or with others.
   V.   "Writing" includes printing.
101.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   A   General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar
and appropriate meaning.
   B.   As used in the Codified Ordinances, unless the context otherwise
requires:
      I.   Tense. Words in the present tense include the future tense and vice
versa.
      2.   Gender. Words in the masculine gender include the feminine and
neuter genders and vice versa.
      3.   Plural. Words in the plural number include the singular number, and
vice versa.
 
   C.   Calendar a Computation of Time.
      1.   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day, except that when
the last day falls on Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday the act may be done
on the next succeeding day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday.
      2.   When a public office in which an act required by law is to be
performed is closed to the public for the entire day which constitutes the last
day for doing such act or is closed gefore its usual closing time on such day,
such act may be performed on.the next succeeding day which is o not a Saturday,
Sunday or _a legal holiday. If any legal holiday falls on Sunday, the next
succeeding day is a legal holiday.
      3.   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included.
      4.   In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or
notice shall mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance
of such duty or compliance with such notice.
   D.   Authority. When the law requires an act which may by law be done as
well by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   E.   Joint Authority. All words purporting to give joint.authority to three
or more City
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such officers or other persons, unless it shall be otherwise
expressly declared in the ordinance giving the authority or inconsistent with
Charter provisions.
   F.   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
shall contain any express provision excluding such construction, or when the
subject matter or context of such law may be repugnant thereto.
101.04 REVIVOR; EFFECT Of AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   A.   When an ordinance which repealed a former ordinance is repealed, the
former legislation is not thereby revived.
 
   B.   When a provision of the Codified Ordinances is repealed or amended,
such repeal or amendment does not affect pending actions, prosecutions or
proceedings, civil or criminal. When the repeal or amendment relates to the
remedy, it does not affect pending actions, prosecutions or proceedings unless
so expressed, nor does any repeal or amendment affect causes of such action,
prosecution or proceeding existing at the time of such amendment or repeal,
unless otherwise expressly provided in the amending or repealing ordinance.
   C.   When a provision of the Codified Ordinances is repealed, such repeal
does not:
      1.   Affect any rights or liabilities which exist, have accrued or have
been incurred by virtue of such repealed provision.
      2.   Affect an action or proceeding for the enforcement of any rights or
liabilities existing or arising thereunder.
      3.   Relieve any person from punishment for an act committed in violation
of such repealed provision.
      4.   Affect an affidavit charging or prosecution of a violation of such
repealed provision.
   D.   For the purposes of this section, such repealed provision shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding such repeal, provided this
does not affect the limitations of actions, prosecutions or proceedings imposed
by any Ohio law.
101.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   A,    When reference is made to any section of the Codified Ordinances, such
reference shall include any amendment of or supplement to that section or to
any City legislation enacted in lieu thereof. Unless otherwise provided,
whenever a reference to a section is made in any amendment or supplement to
another section of the Codified Ordinances hereafter enacted, such reference
shall be deemed to refer to the section as the same shall then stand or as
thereafter amended.
   B.   Whenever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or chapter, such reference shall be construed to mean a violation of
any provision of the section or chapter.
   C.   References to action taken or authorized under designated sections of
the Codified Ordinances include, in every case, action taken or authorized
under the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by the Codified
Ordinances.
 
101.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the Codified
Ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the subject matter taken as a whole.
101.07 SEPARABILITY.
   Each section of the Codified Ordinances and every part of each section is an
independent section and an independent part of a section, so that the holding
of any section or a part thereof to be unconstitutional, void or ineffective
for any cause shall not affect the validity or constitutionality of any other
section or part of any section.
101.08 SALE AND DISTRIBUTION OF COPIES.
   A.   The City shall hold available for sale a limited number of copies of
its Codified Ordinances at such prices as may be established from time to time
by the City Manager to cover administration costs of providing the copies.
Supplements shall be made available for sale in the same manner.
   B.   Distribution of certain copies of the Codified Ordinances to agents and
employees of the City, to members of Council, to the Dayton Law Library
Association, to certain other libraries in the community and to the Ohio
Municipal League shall be made free of charge at the discretion of the City
Manager. Supplements may be provided in the same manner.
101.09 CORRECTIONS; REVISIONS.
   As part of the 1992 recodification of the ordinances of this city, the city
council assigns and delegates to the city attorney the following responsibility
and authority to correct errors and make revisions in that codification:
   A.   To correct typographical errors, spelling, sentence structure,
punctuation, capitalization, paragraphing, arrangement, headings, style and the
numbering of parts, titles, chapters, sections and pages.
   B.   To include ordinances which were previously enacted, which are still in
effect, and which would be appropriate to have as part of the codification.
    C.   To add and revise an index, tables of contents and cross reference
tables.
In carrying out this responsibility and exercising this authority, the city
attorney shall com ply with the following standards and limitations:
   D.   Under paragraph A above, he shall use appropriate professional skill
and judgment to avoid changes in purpose or meaning, limiting corrections to
matters of appearance, to more correct or better use of language and to ease of
readability and use.
   E.   Under paragraph B and C, he shall add only such materials as his
professional skill and judgment indicates would be reasonably helpful for use
of the codification and to justify the effort of compilation and of keeping
them current.
101.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever in the Codified Ordinances or in any ordinance of the City, any act
is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or to be an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the failure to do
any act is declared to be unlawful, and if no specific penalty is otherwise
provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be deemed to be guilty of a
minor misdemeanor for the first offense. The second violation of the same
provision within one year after the first violation shall constitute a fourth
degree misdemeanor. The third and any subsequent violations of the same
provision within one year after the second or immediately prior violation shall
constitute a third degree misdemeanor.   o
   Legislative history:   Ord. 4809 passed 9/21/2015; ORC 1.01; ORC 1.02 (8)
(C) (D) (H) (I); ORC 701.01 (C) (E) (F); Ord. 2608 passed 1/20/69; ORC 1.10,
1.15, 1.19, 1.20, 1.21, 1.23,
1.13; Ord. 2538 passed 3/4/68.
CHAPTER 103
Official Standards
103.01    Corporate seal.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
State standard of time - see ORC 1.04.
State legal holidays - see ORC 1.14, 5.20 et seq., 1303.45.
Computation of time - see ADM.
101.03(c)
 
 
103.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   The corporate seal of the City of Oakwood shall have the words "Manager,
City of Oakwood, State of Ohio" around its edge; and in the center thereof
shall be engraved the coat of arms of the State, as described in Ohio R.C.
5.04. The City Manager shall be furnished with that seal; and it may be but
shall not be required to be affixed to all bonds, notes and other appropriate
documents of the City.
Legislative history: Ord. 2176 passed 11-21-60.
TITLE THREE - Legislative
   Chapter
111. Rules of Procedure of Council, Boards, Commissions and Committees.
   Chapter
113. Ordinances and Resolutions.
CHAPTER 111
Rules of Procedure of Council, Boards and Commissions
111.01   Application to Council, etc.
111.02   Time and place of meetings.
111.03   Duties of Mayor.
111.04   Temporary Mayor.
111.05   Order of business.
111.06   Attendance members; no proxy vote
111.07   Quorum; excessive absences.
111.08   Agenda, duties of manager.
111.09   Introduction of official business.
111.10   Conduct of business a matter of local self government.
111.11   Duty to vote.
111.12   Meetings of committees and other groups not created by charter.
111.13   Public notice of meetings.
111.14   Special meetings; notice to members.
111.15   All meetings of Council and of every other public body of the City
shall be open to the public, except for executive sessions.
111.16   Executive session procedures and topics.
111.17   Vote required for adoption of motions, committee reports, and
legislation.
111.18   Reports and resolutions; simultaneous vote.
111.19   Copies of, reading of, ordinances and resolutions.
111.20   Roll call voting is permitted but is not necessary.
111.21   Selling presentations prohibited.
111.22   Minutes of meetings.
111.23   Conduct of audience at public hearings and meetings.
111.24   Amendment of these rules.
111.25   Use of Robert's Rules of Order.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Council - see CHTR.
Art. II.
Action of Council - see CHTR.
3.01.
Council to Appoint City Manager - see CHTR.
4.01. 
Relationship of Council to City Manager - see CHTR.
4.05.
Release of treasurer's liability for loss of funds - see ORC 121.22
Clerk of Council - see ADM.
139.01.
 
 
111.01 APPLICATION TO COUNCIL, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES.
   A.   The proceedings of Council, of every board and commission created by
the Charter, and of every other public body of this City as defined in these
rules, shall be governed by this chapter.
   B.   For public bodies other than the Council, the words "Mayor" and "Vice-
Mayor" shall be deemed to mean "Chairperson" and "Vice-Chairperson". Similarly,
the word "Council" shall be deemed to mean whatever other public body is
involved. References to "members" shall be deemed to include those who are
elected and also those who are appointed.
   C.   Certain portions of these rules shall be deemed to have special
application in that they apply only to the City Council or have some different
meaning when applied to other public bodies. When that is the case, the rule
will include language which says so.
111.02 TIME AND PLACE OF MEETINGS.
   This section applies only to the City Council. Regular meetings of Council
shall be held on such dates as Council may determine from time to time, but not
less frequently than every other month. The meetings shall be held at 7:30 P.M.
in the Council Chamber of City Hall unless Council specifies a different time
or place for any such meeting.
111.03 DUTIES OF MAYOR.
   A.   The Mayor shall take the chair at the time appointed for the meeting of
Council, shall immediately call the members to order, and shall proceed with
the business of the meeting as described in the agenda and as required by this
chapter.
   B.   The Mayor shall preserve order and decorum during the session of
Council and to this end may direct the City Manager. The Mayor shall place
before Council for decisions all questions properly submitted by any member
(including the Mayor, who may move or second the adoption of any motion,
resolution or ordinance).
   C.    The Mayor shall decide all points of order without debate, subject to
appeal to the entire Cnuncil by any two members. In case of appeal, the
question shall be, "Shall the decision nf the Chair stand as the decision of
the Council?" or "I move to overrule the decision of the Chair" or some similar
language. The Mayor shall have the right to call any member to the Chair for
any part of the session. (See Section
111.25.)
   D.    This paragraph applies only to the Council. The Mayor, subject to the
approval of Council, shall appoint the following standing committees. The
appointment shall be made at, or as soon as possible after, the first meeting
of Council in January of each year. Such committees shall consist of two
members each and the first member named shall be chairman of the committee. The
standing committees are as follows:
       1.   Court liaison
      2.   Finance
      3.   Law
      4.   Minutes
      5.   Planning and zoning
      6.   Public properties
      7.   Public utilities/waterworks/sewer
      8.   Safety and traffic
      9.   Streets and alleys
      10.   Community relations/promotion and appointments
111.04 TEMPORARY MAYOR.
   In the absence of both the Mayor and the Vice-Mayor, the senior member of
Council then present shall call the Council to order and shall act as temporary
Mayor, whose official acts under the rules shall be valid.
111.05 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The presiding officer shall call the business in the following order, unless
a different order is agreed upon by Council:
   A.   Call to order.
   B.   Roll call.
   C.   Minutes of the past meetings.
   D.   Visitors.
   E.   Public Hearings
   F.   Legislation, (for other than the City Council itself, this shall be
"new business").
   G.   Staff Reports
   H.   City Manager's report, (this applies only to the City Council).
   I.   Council comments/status reports.
   J.   Adjournment.
   In addition to the above matters, communications and petitions shall be
placed on the written agcnda if thcy arc filed in the office of the Clerk of
Council no later than Friday noon prior to commencement of the meeting at which
they are to be heard.
111.06 ATTENDANCE OF MEMBERS; NO PROXY VOTING.
   A.   It shall be the duty of all the members of Council to be present and
remain during all regular sessions of Council except when sick, in case of
sickness or death in their respective families, when extraordinary business
interests demand immediate attention, when absent from the City or when on
special leave granted by Council.
   B.   Members who are not at the designated location of a meeting shall be
deemed to be present if they participate in that meeting by means of
communication equipment which:
       1.   enables all members participating to hear each other, and to hear
all other persons who are present and who are recognized to speak at the
meeting; and
      2.   enables all other persons attending at the designated location of
the meeting to hear and, if recognized, to speak to each member of the Council
and to each other.
   C.   No proxy voting shall be permitted.
111.07 QUORUM; EXCESSIVE ABSENCES.
   A.   A majority of the number of Council members authorized by the City
Charter (that number being five (5)) shall be necessary to constitute a quorum.
This means a quorum is three
(3) members.
   B.   Any member who, without valid excuse and contrary to Section
111.04, absents himself from six sessions of Council extending over a period of
at least two months may be expelled from Council by a vote of two-thirds of all
members.
111.08 AGENDA; DUTIES OF MANAGER.
   To enable the Council to review a proposed order of business, the City
Manager at each meeting shall furnish the Council a written agenda for that
meeting. The agenda shall list business expected to come before Council at that
meeting in the order in which it is to be taken up as required by Section
111.13. A reasonable number of copies of the agenda shall be available for use
by persons attending public meetings of Council.
111.09 INTRODUCTION OF OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   Official business, i.e., that which requires action by the Council, may be
introduced only by a member of Council or by the City Manager.
111.10   CONDUCT OF BUSINESS A MATTER OF LOCAL SELF GOVERNMENT.
   The manner in which the Council conducts discussions of public business
shall be a matter of local self government to be determined under the Charter
and ordinances of the City and not by state statute. Accordingly, this Chapter
111 of the Codified Ordinances is enacted to set forth specific local self-
government procedures for conducting the business of this City. The City
Council has considered, and by the passage of these rules shall be deemed to
have adopted as local procedures applicable to the government of this City, the
provisions of the state Sunshine Law, Revised Code 121.22, as that law read on
September 1, 1995, except to the extent this Chapter
111 establishes contrary or supplemental provisions.
 
111.11 DUTY TO VOTE.
   Every member present shall vote, unless the member abstains. Any member who
abstains from voting may make a brief statement of the reason for doing so. A
member who abstains shall be counted for the purpose of determining a quorum,
but no vote shall be recorded for that member on the issue from which the
member abstained. This rule that abstentions do not count as a vote shall not
apply, however, with regard to organizational matters such as selection of a
clerk of Council or of a Mayor or Vice Mayor. Abstentions on such
organizational questions could prevent the Council from going forward to
consider its business, and so one who abstains on such matters shall be deemed
to have voted with the majority of those who do vote.
111.12 MEETINGS OF COMMITTEES AND OTHER GROUPS NOT CREATED BY CHARTER.
   Committees or subcommittees of less than a majority of the members of
Council-, together with any other committees, boards, commissions, task forces
or groups of persons not created by the City Charter (collectively included in
the word "committee"), are declared not to be public bodies and therefore not
to be subject to the local procedures described in these Rules of Procedure (or
to the statutory provisions adopted by reference in these Rules of Procedure)
if and to the extent that:
   A.   Any decision or action of the committee may not bind the Council or the
City but instead merely constitutes a non-binding recommendation; and
   B.   If Council action is required, the recommendation is disclosed at a
subsequent public meeting of Council and persons attending that meeting have an
opportunity to hear the recommendation before Council acts upon the matter. A
motion by a member of Council who is making a report for that committee shall
be deemed to be one acceptable method (but not the only one) of disclosing the
recommendation of that committee. For example, if a report is requested from or
offered by a Committee to Review Council Minutes, it shall be a sufficient
disclosure of the recommendation of the committee if the reporting member (who
is identified as acting for the committee) simply says, "I move that the
minutes of the    meeting be accepted." (instead of the cumbersome procedure of
saying, "The recommendation of the committee is that the minutes of meeting be
accepted, and I so move.")
111.13 PUBLIC NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   A.   Regular meetings: The Clerk of Council shall maintain a listing of the
time and place of all regularly scheduled meetings of Council and of all other
public bodies of this City. The list shall be made available to any person upon
inquiry and shall be made a public notice as follows:
      1.   By giving it to the newspapers now known as the "Dayton Daily News,"
the "Kettering-Oakwood Times" and the "Oakwood Register," or to their
successors, if any, and
       2.   By posting the list upon a bulletin board open to public view in
the City offices at 30 Park Avenue, and
      3.   By posting the list upon the city's primary internet website. For
website publication, it shall be sufficient to post a link which allows an
internet user to access the list as a PDF or other commonly used file type, or
by including substantially identical information in a list or calendar format.
   B.   Special meeting: When a special meeting is called for Council, any
board or commission created by the Charter, or any other public body of the
City, the Clerk of Council shall give at least twelve hours' advance notice to
the same newspapers referred to in paragraph A immediately above and to any
other news media that have requested notification, except in the event of an
emergency requiring immediate official action. If such an emergency occurs, the
same newspapers and other news media entities shall be notified orally as soon
as reasonably possible by an administrative employee of the City or by the
member or members of Council who called the special meeting.
   C.   Requests for advance notice of meetings dealing with specific topics:
Upon request (and upon payment of any reasonable fee which may have been set on
the fee schedule maintained by the City Manager), any person may obtain
reasonable advance notice of all public meetings of the Council or of any other
public body of the City at which any specific type of public business is to be
discussed, and/or may obtain reasonable advance notice of all public meetings
(not merely those dealing with some specific type of business) of such groups.
The notice may be in the form of a list showing the date, hour and place of
various meetings or may simply be the agenda of meetings subject to the
request. Any such request must be in writing, must set forth the mailing
address to be used by. the City, must be signed by the party, and shall remain
in effect for the balance of the calendar year in which it is made plus all of
the next following year, but shall expire automatically at the end of that
second year.
111.14 SPECIAL MEETINGS; NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
   A.   The Mayor or any two members of Council (or one less than a majority of
any public body subject to these rules) may call a special meeting upon at
least twelve hours' advance notice to each member. The notice shall be in
writing and shall list the time, place and purpose of the special meeting. In
the alternative, the advance notice required by this section may be given by
telephone by the Clerk of Council or by any person designated by the Clerk. No
motion may be passed or other action taken upon any topic other than that
covered by the purpose of the meeting (as mentioned in the notice); this shall
not prohibit other matters being brought up and discussed but no action may be
taken upon those other matters.
 
   B.   If written notice is used, it shall be deemed to have been given and
completed if deposited in the U.S. mail, postage prepaid, at least sixty hours
prior to the time of the special meeting. Written notice of a special meeting
may also be completed by service in the same manner as a summons is seNed in a
civil lawsuit. Such seNice of notice may be made by any member of the Safety
Department or by any other person designated by the Clerk of Council.
   C.   Notice m?y be waived by any member at any time. Attendance at a meeting
without objecting to lack of notice before any substantive discussion begins
shall be deemed to constitute waiver of notice by that member.
111.15   ALL MEETINGS OF COUNCIL AND OF EVERY OTHER PUBLIC BODY OF THE CITY
SHALL BE OPEN TO THE PUBLIC, EXCEPT FOR EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   All meetings of Council and of every public body of this City shall be open
to the public, except that meetings may be used for executive sessions (i.e.,
not open to the public) to the extent allowed either by Ohio statute or by City
ordinance.
111.16 EXECUTIVE SESSION PROCEDURES AND TOPICS.
   Such sessions are not open to the public. An executive session shall be
deemed a special meeting of Council if not held during, or immediately
preceding or following, a regular meeting. The decision to hold an executive
session may be made in any of the following ways: (1) by listing the fact and
topic of the executive session on an agenda of the Council meeting, a
reasonable number of copies of which are available to persons attending the
meeting; (2) by the Mayor or acting chairperson announcing the fact and topic
of the executive session (subject to being overruled by a majority of the
members present); (3) by a motion passed by affirmative vote of a majority of
the members present so as to declare the fact and topic of the executive
session, with the vote being taken by a show of hands or voice vote, no roll
call vote being required; or (4) by any other method which the Council members
are willing to use and which provides reasonable disclosure of the fact and
topic of the executive session.
   It shall not be necessary for the members of Council to convene a public
portion of a meeting before going into executive session or after leaving an
executive session, as long as the decision to hold an executive session is
communicated to interested persons by any of the following procedures: (1) by
making available an agenda of the meeting which lists or calls for the
executive session; or (2) by stating in the public notice of the meeting (as
described above in Section
111.09 that an executive session will be held before or after a meeting, or if
the sole purpose of the meeting is to hold an executive session, by stating
that fact.)
   The topics for which executive sessions may be held shall include those
described in Revised Code 121.22 and certain additional matters listed below.
Topics may be identified by using the capital letter titles in the following
subparagraphs. An executive session called for one topic may be expanded during
that session and without advance notice to include additional topics, as long
as the minutes subsequently list all the topics involved. Such listing in the
minutes shall be deemed to constitute reasonable disclosure of the additional
topics.
   The following topics may be discussed at executive sessions, subject to the
restriction that no ordinances or resolutions may be enacted nor any motions
passed in such sessions, and instead all ordinances, resolutions and motions
must be voted upon in those portions of meetings which are open to the public.
   (1)   "PERSONNEL MATTERS" for all matters referred to in paragraph (1) of
division (G) of Ohio Revised Code 121.22, sometimes referred to as the Sunshine
Law.
   (2)   "PROPERTY MATTERS" to consider the acquisition of property for public
purposes or the disposal of property, whether at competitive bidding or
otherwise, on conditions generally the same as those described in paragraph (2)
of division (G) of Revised Code 121.22, specifically being that an executive
session on this topic is proper if disclosure of information would give a
competitive, bargaining or other advantage to a person or entity whose interest
is or may be adverse to what Council deems to be the general public interest.
   (3)   "CONFERENCE WITH ATTORNEY" for matters referred to in paragraph (3) of
division (G) of Revised Code 121.22. and also for conferences with attorneys
representing the City which are confidential communications and advice under
the attorney-client privilege described in division (A) of 2317.02 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
   (4)   "LABOR NEGOTIATIONS" for matters referred to in paragraph (4) of
division (G) of Revised Code 121.22.
   (5)   "MATTERS REQUIRED OR PERMITTED TO BE KEPT CONFIDENTIAL BY FEDERAL OR
STATE LAW" for any matter referred to in paragraph (5) of division (G) of
Revised Code 121.22, and also for any matter permitted to be kept confidential
by federal or state law.
   (6)   "SECURITY ARRANGEMENTS" for m?tters referred to in paragraph (6) of
division (G) of Revised Code 121.22 and also for discussions of multi-
government cooperation, or of the sole activities of this City, as to law
enforcement matters where disclosure of the matters discussed might reveal
information that could be used for the purpose of committing, or avoiding
prosecution for or conviction of, a violation of law.
   (7)    "QUASI-JUDICIAL DELIBERATIONS" for deliberations leading to a
decision by Council on appeals from quasi-judicial decisions of other public
bodies of the city. Also for similar deliberations by those same public bodies
in connection with any quasi-judicial hearings they may hold. In both
instances, the final decision (i.e., the final vote) must be taken at an open
public meeting, not in executive session.
    (8)   “ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT" for discussions of any aspect of economic
develdplnent affecting the City, including but not limited to the possibility
of construetion of new buildings or of businesses or jobs locating, remaining
in or.: departing from the City (or the Miami Valley, to the extent conditions
in that valley may affect the income of businesses or residents within this
City and therefore affect the tax revenue of this City).
   (9)   "NEGOTIATIONS WITH ORGANIZATIONS OR INDIVIDUALS” for negotiations with
public or private organizations or with individuals, and discussions regarding
those negotiations, on the same type of conditions which must exist to make
"Property Matters” a valid topic for executive sessions, specifically being
that an executive session on this topic is proper if disclosure of information
would give a competitive bargaining or other advantage to a person or entity
whose interest is or may be adverse to what the Council deems to be the general
public interest.
   (10)   "COUNCIL RETREATS" for short and long-range planning, team building
and other general discussions, limited to not more than four retreats in any
calendar year.
   (11)   "PROCEDURAL MATTERS" such as, but not limited to, committee
assignments, decisions as to when and where meetings will be held, and
decisions as to what topics will be dealt with at subsequent meetings.
   (12)   "SEMINARS AND CONFERENCES" such as, but not limited:to, meetings of
or sponsored by the National League of Cities or the Ohio Municipal League.
111.17 VOTE REQUIRED FOR ADOPTION OF MOTIONS, COMMITTEE REPORTS, AND
LEGISLATION.
   A.   A majority of all the members present at any session shall be necessary
for the adoption of any motion.
   B.    A majority (three) of the total authorized number of five Council
members shall be required to adopt a committee report or to enact ordinances or
resolutions. (See Section
111.19 as to super-majority voting requirements for emergency ordinances and,
as an alternative to an emergency ordinance, for having only one reading of the
title of an ordinance.)
111.18 REPORTS AND RESOLUTIONS; SIMULTANEOUS VOTE.
   To expedite business, all motions, reports and resolutions, except such as
by law require a separate roll call, may be voted on at one time if no
objection is made. Any motion, report or resolution to which such objection is
made shall be laid aside and voted on separately.
111.19 COPIES OF, READING OF, ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
    Before passage, copies of every ordinance and resolution shall be made
available to the audience. The title of every ordinance shall be read aloud and
distinctly twice, each time on a separate day (but the title to any resolution
needs only one reading on one day). For all purposes referred to in this
Chapter
111, the word "audience" shall be deemed to mean those who are present in
person at a meeting. This procedure of reading ordinances (by title only) on
two separate days may be changed by either of the following actions:
   A.   Passage of an emergency ordinance: after the title of any ordinance is
read the first time, a motion may be made "to pass (or adopt) this ordinance as
an emergency measu?e." Or, if the title and the body of the ordinance already
declare that it is to be an emergency measure, the motion may be simply "to
pass (or adopt) this ordinance." Every ordinarice passed as emergency
legislation must contain a separate section of the ordinance stating the reason
for the emergency. Passage of the motion by affirmative vote of at least four
members of Council shall constitute a declaration that such emergency exists
and that the ordinance is adopted as emergency legislation. No additional
reading of, or vote upon, the ordinance shall be necessary. (Upon passage, an
emergency ordinance becomes effectively immediately.)
   B.   Passage of an ordinance as non?emergency, but with only one reading:
even though an ordinance is not an emergency measure, after the title of the
ordinance is read for the first time a motion may be made "to pass (or adopt)
this ordinance now and without readings on two separate days" (or some similar
language). Passage of this motion by affirmative vote of at least four members
of Council shall dispense with a second reading and shall constitute adoption
of the ordinance. No additional reading of or vote upon the ordinance shall be
necessary (but since it was not adopted as an emergency, such an ordinance will
not become effective until thirty days after its passage).
111.20 ROLL CALL VOTING IS PERMITTED BUT IS NOT NECESSARY.
   The Mayor may call for a roll call vote or, alternative, may simply ask that
those in favor say Aye or Nay (or use some similar language). In the
alternative or in addition, the Mayor may ask each Council Member to raise his
or her hand to indicate a vote in favor or against a proposal. A roll call vote
shall be taken if requested by any member of Council.
111.21 SELLING PRESENTATIONS PROHIBITED.
   During any period in which the City is soliciting competitive bids or
quotations for the purchase of some particular item or service and is deciding
which to select, meetings of Council may not be used by vendors to extol the
virtues of their particular products or services.
111.22 MINUTES OF MEETINGS.
    Minutes of public meetings of the Council, of boards and commissions
created by the Charter, and of other public bodies of the City shall be
prepared and approved within a reasonable time after the meetings have been
completed. Those minutes shall be public records. They need not be verbatim
minutes, but instead may be summary in form, listing only agenda topics
discussed, other matters of importance, and actions which involved votes of
members. No minutes shall be taken of executive sessions, but a brief statement
setting forth the general subjects of discussion (as those executive session
subjects are identified by capital letter titles authorized by these Rules of
procedure) shall be inserted into the minute book.
111.23 CONDUCT OF AUDIENCE AT PUBLIC HEARINGS AND MEETINGS.
   Public hearing: A "public hearing" is that part of a public meeting during
which members of -the audience have a right to speak on the matter involved
(subject to reasonable restrictions imposed by these Rules of Procedure and by
Council). The purpose of a public hearing is to allow members of the audience
to present their views to Council.
   Since hearings are for citizen input, the Mayor is empowered to restrict the
use of tactics that are confrontational and that do not serve to illuminate the
issues at hand. Council may chose to reply to questions posed at a subsequent
meeting.
   Public meeting: A "public meeting" is a session at which the Council acts
upon various matters of City business. It is public in that citizens have the
right to attend the meeting and listen to the proceedings. The audience at a
public meeting (unlike that at a public hearing) has no "right" to be heard and
instead may speak only if invited by Council to do so.
   The following procedures are to be followed by members of the audience who
are recognized to speak at any public hearing or meeting.
   A.   Wait to be recognized by the Mayor before speaking.
   B.   Upon being recognized, rise before speaking, if requested to do so by
the Mayor.
   C.   If there is a podium or other location at which persons addressing the
Council are to speak, the person who has been recognized is to leave his or her
seat and proceed to that speaking location, if requested to do so by the Mayor.
   D.   Before speaking, a member of the audience is to identify himself or
herself by name and address, indicating if that address is within the City of
Oakwood.
   E.   Customarily, proponents will be recognized first, followed by persons
who oppose the matter or issue, with a subsequent opportunity for rebuttal.
   F.   Except when leave is granted by the Mayor, there is a time limit of
three minutes for each speaker. This does not apply to the person or
organization who or which has filed the application, variance request or other
matter. being heard by the Council.
   G.   Avoid repeating points made by earlier speakers. The Mayor has the
right to terminate comments that are redundant.
   H.   Comments from persons in the audience shall be addressed to the Council
as a whole or to the Mayor, not to any individual member of Council, nor to
proponents or opponents of the issue, nor to City staff, and not to other
members of the audience.
   I.   Customarily, everyone will be given a chance to speak before any other
person is allowed to speak twice. This does not apply to the applicant's or
proponent's right to rebuttal.
   J.   The Council reserves the right to put an end to that portion of any
meeting or hearing in which comments from the audience are allowed, so as to
leave time for Council to proceed with other business.
111.24 AMENDMENT OF THESE RULES.
   Since the provisions of this Chapter
111 are established by ordinance, they may not be amended by any Oakwood
organization other than the City Council.
111.25 USE OF ROBERT'S RULES OF ORDER.
   Beyond what is provided for in this chapter of the Codified Ordinances, the
most recently revised edition of Robert's Rules of Order shall govern Council
in its deliberations. Those provisions may be suspended in the same manner as
other rules of procedure in this chapter.
Legislative history: Ord. 1087 passed 1/1/32; Ord. 2570 passed 6/17/68; Ord.
2755 passed 7/19/71; Ord. 3418 passed 5/21/84; Ord. 3543 passed 3/3/86; Ord.
3657 passed 6/1/87; Ord. 3724 passed 2/1/88; CHTR. 3.03 and 3.04; Ord. 4037,
passed 1/21/91; Ord. 4318, passed 12/18/95.
CHAPTER 113
Ordinances and Resolutions
113.01   Publications of appropriation ordinances.
113.02    Publication of general ordinances by inclusion in Codified
Ordinances.
113.03   Amendments to and revisions of previous ordinances and resolutions.
113.04   Two or more subjects in one ordinance or resolution.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Ordinances and resolutions - see CHTR
. Art. III
Publication - See CHTR.
3.05,
11.08 for basic requirements as to publication of ordinances
Ordinances and resolutions as evidence - see ORC 731.42
Codified Ordinances - see ADM. Ch.
101
Introduction in Council - see ADM.
111.17
 
 
113.01 PUBLICATION OF APPROPRIATION ORDINANCES.
   In lieu of publication of appropriation ordinances in a newspaper of general
circulation, all such ordinances may be published by reproduction and
distribution to the members of Council and to department heads, to city boards
and commissions, and to all citizens who may apply for copies at the office of
the Clerk of Council. This method of publication is authorized by City Charter
Article III, Section
3.05.
113.02 PUBLICATION OF GENERAL ORDINANCES BY INCLUSION IN CODIFIED ORDINANCES.
   Ordinances of a general nature and ordinances providing for public
improvements may be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
City, including a bulletin or newsletter published by the City itself. In the
alternative, any or all such ordinances may be published through being included
at length in a code of revised ordinances which is made available to the public
in the office of the Clerk of Council. This code shall constitute the Codified
Ordinances described in Section
101.01. This method of publication is specifically authorized by City Charter
Article III, Section
3.05.
 
113.03 AMENDMENTS TO AND REVISIONS OF PREVIOUS ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   A.   An amendment of an existing ordinance or resolution need not set forth
in full the ordinance, section or paragraph thereof being amended but may
instead state what words are to be added, explain where those words are to be
inserted, and also set forth any words to be deleted. One method of doing this
may be to type words to be added in capital or italic letters and to type
dashes through, and/or put brackets or parenthesis around, any words to be
deleted. (Amended by Ord. 4405, passed 3/2/98).
   B.   If an entire ordinance or an entire section, paragraph, or sentence is
to be repealed, it shall not be necessary to set forth in full the language to
be repealed. Instead, it shall be sufficient to refer to the language being
repealed by its ordinance or resolution number, section number or by
identifying the paragraph or sentence to be repealed.
113.04 TWO OR MORE SUBJECTS IN ONE ORDINANCE OR RESOLUTION.
   Any ordinance may contain a number of separate legislative sections as long
as they deal with the same general subject or with the same code within the
Codified Ordinances,
e.g. the Traffic Code or Building Code.
Legislative history: Ord. 2457 passed 12/19/66; Ord. 2576 passed 8/19/68; Ord.
3204 passed 6/1/81; Ord. 3544 passed 3/3/86; Ord. 4405, passed 3/2/98; CHTR.
3.02
TITLE FIVE - ADMINISTRATION
         Chap.   
121.   Administration Generally.
         Chap.   
123.   City Manager.
         Chap.   
125.   Finance Department.
         Chap.   
127.   Department of Law.
         Chap.   
129.   Safety Department.
         Chap.   
131.   Service Department.
         Chap.   
135.   Water Department.
         Chap.   
137.   Leisure Service Department.
         Chap.   
139.   Clerk of Council.
         Chap.   
141.   Personnel.
         Chap.   
143.   Employment Benefits.
         Chap.   
145.   Contracts and Purchases.
         Chap.   
147.   Money, Investments and Funds.
         Chap.   
148.   Municipal Income Tax.
         Chap.   
149.   Civil Defense.   
         Chap.   
150.   Civil Preparedness Plan.
         Chap.   
151.   Disposal of City Property.
         Chap.   
152.   Recovery of Costs.
         Chap.   
153.   Permits and Inspection Fees.
CHAPTER 121
Administration Generally
121.01   Departmental organization.
121.02   Officers.
121.03   Department heads.
121.04   Acting department heads.
121.05   Assistants to department heads.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Departments see CHTR.
5.01 et. seq.
Manager's rules for administrative departments - see ADM.
123.03.
 
 
121.01 DEPARTMENTAL ORGANIZATION.
   The administrative section of the City shall be divided, under the City
Manager, into the following departments with the following heads thereof:
   Finance Department         Finance Director
   Law Department          Law Director (sometimes referred to as City
Attorney)
   Safety Department         Public Safety Director
   Service Department          Public Works Director
   Personnel Department      Personnel Director.
   (Ord. 5032. Passed 1-5-26.)
 
121.02 OFFICERS.
   Each officer shall perform all duties required of his office by the Charter,
by law and by this and other ordinances of the City; and he shall perform such
other duties not in conflict therewith as may be assigned by the City Manager.
121.03 DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   The heads of departments shall :
   A.   Be immediately responsible to the City Manager for the effective
administration of their departments and all activities assigned thereto.
   B.   Keep informed as to the latest practices in their particular field.
They shall inaugurate, with the approval of the City Manager, such new
practices as appear to be of benefit to the City and to the public.
   C.   Submit reports of the activities of their departments when requested by
the City Manager.
   D.   Establish and maintain a system of records and reports in sufficient
detail to furnish all information necessary for proper control of departmental
activities and to form a basis for the reports required by.the City Manager.
   E.   Have power, when authorized by the City Manager, to appoint and remove
their subordinates.
   F.   Be responsible for the proper custody and maintenance of all City
property and    equipment used in their departments.
121.04 ACTING DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   Whenever for any reason a department head is unable to perform his duties,
the City Manager may name a substitute until the disability is removed or the
position becomes vacant.
 
121.05 ASSISTANTS TO DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   Whenever for any reason the City Manager deems it necessary to provide
either temporary or permanent assistants for any department head, the City
Manager shall authorize the employment of same within existing appropriations.
Legislative history: Ord 2149 passed 7/11/60.
CHAPTER 123
City Manager
 
123.01   Duties.
123.02   Bond.
123.03   Rules and regulations.
123.04   Transfer of personnel.
123.05   Transfer of work among departments.
123.06   Assistant to City Manager.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Appointment, duties, etc. - see CHTR.
Art. IV. 
Supervision of purchasing - see CHTR.
 5.05.
Bond requirement - see CHTR.
11.02.
Custody of City seal - see ADM.
103.01.
Direction of Safety Department by City Manager - see ADM.
129.01.
Direction of Service Department by City Manager - see ADM.
131.01.
Direction of Water Department by City Manager - see ADM.
135.01.
To be purchasing agent - see ADM.
145.01.
As Director of Civil Defense - see ADM.
149.01.
Authority of City Manager to adopt traffic regulations - see TRAF.
305.03.
 
 
123.01 DUTIES.
   The City Manager shall be the chief executive and administrative officer of
the City. He shall periorm the duties required of him by the Charter and such
additional duties as may be prescribed by ordinance. He shall also serve as
purchasing agent of the City.
123.02 BOND.
   The City Manager shall furnish bond, as required by the Charter, in the
amount of $10,000.00.
123.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   A.   The City Manager may prescribe such general rules and regulations as he
may deem necessary or expedient for the general conduct of the administrative
departments. The head of each department shall, in like manner, prescribe such
rules and regulations as he may deem necessary and expedient for the proper
conduct of his department, not inconsistent with rules and regulations
prescribed by the City Manager.
   B.   The City Manager may prescribe such reasonable rules and regulations as
he deems necessary to regulate the use of municipal off-street parking
facilities.
 
123.04 TRANSFER OF PERSONNEL.
   The City Manager may temporarily transfer employees from one department to
another department in order to expedite the work of a department or to meet
increased duties of a seasonal or periodic nature which may occur within a
department.
123.05 TRANSFER OF WORK AMONG DEPARTMENTS.
   The City Manager may direct any department to perform work for any other
department.
123.06 ASSISTANT TO THE CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager may, whenever he deems it necessary or expedient, employ an
administrative assistant, who shall assist the City Manager in such manner and
to such extent as the City Manager may direct.
Legislative history: Ord. 2149 passed 7/11/60; Ord. 2978 passed 11/22/76.
CHAPTER 125
Finance Department
125.01   Finance Director; duties.
125.02   Bond.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Duties - see CHTR.
5.11
Finances of City - see CHTR.
 Art. VI
Bond requirement - see CHTR.
11.02
Loss of funds; release of liability - see ORC 131.18 et seq.
Uniform Bond Law - see ORC Ch. 133
Uniform Depository Act - see ORC Ch. 135
Treasury investment account - see ORC 731.56 et seq.
Contracts and purchases - see ADM. Ch.
145
Money, investments, funds - see ADM. Ch.
147
 
 
125.01 FINANCE DIRECTOR; DUTIES.
   The Finance Department shall be under the direction of a Finance Director
who shall be accountable to the City Manager and to Council. The Finance
Director shall perform the following duties:
   A.   Keep in proper books a full and accurate record of all money received
and disbursed on behalf of the City and of all money due to and from the City
upon contracts and orders and shall provide for safekeeping of all such
contracts and orders involving obligations to or owed by the City.
   B.   Receive and have custody of all money paid to the City and disburse all
City money in accordance with the Charter and ordinances, signing all warrants
upon the City treasury in making such disbursements.
   C.   Render a monthly report to the City Manager and to Council reflecting
the financial condition of the City and showing monthly receipts, encumbrances
and outstanding balances of all funds.
   D.   Certify that funds are available according to law to pay money provided
by all contracts, agreements or other obligations for the expenditure of City
funds. No such contract, agreement or other obligation shall be valid until so
certified.
   E.   Make payment of the interest and principal on the bonded debt when due
and keep accurate records of such debt and of such payments thereon.
   F.   Prepare the City payrolls.
    G.   Administer all employee pension and benefit funds, receiving such
funds, acting as custodian thereon according to law and making disbursements
therefrom, signing warrants and checks for such purposes.
   H.   Enter into contracts with legal depositories for the deposit of all
fund of the City with such depositories, rent safe deposit boxes or otherwise
provide for the safekeeping of securities and other documents for payment of
money to the City, and maintain custody of all documents evidencing investments
of the City and of pension and benefit funds of City employees.
   I.   Prepare and submit such reports as may be required by law or ordinance.
   J.   Assist the City Manager in the preparation of the annual budget.
125.02 BOND.
   The Finance Director shall furnish bond, as required by the Charter in the
sum of $50,000.00.
Legislative history: Ord. 2149 passed 7/11/60.
CHAPTER 127
Department of Law
 
127.01   Duties of Law Department.
127.02   Bond.
127.03   Bond counsel.
 
 
127.01 DUTIES OF LAW DEPARTMENT.
   The Department of Law, through a city attorney or through attorneys in
private practice who are not employees of the city, accountable to the City
Manager and to Council, shall perform the following duties:
   (a)   Attend all meetings of Council and of Council committees, boards and
commissions when requested.
   (b)   Advise and render opinions to Council, to the City Manager, to boards
and commissions and to the administrative officers and departments on all
matters of law involving the City and Council members, officers and departments
in the performance of their official duties.
   (c)   Draft all ordinances, contracts, resolutions and other documents of a
legal nature to be made and entered into by the City, and to approve the form
thereof.
   (d)    Represent the City before all courts sitting within the State in
actions at law in which the City is a party.
   (e)   Assist in the preparation of documents and transcripts for the
issuance of bonds and notes of the City.
   (f)   Prosecute in the Oakwood Municipal Court all cases based on affidavits
filed therein by the Division of Police and by other City officials, alleging
violations of City ordinances and of State laws, and prosecute such cases as
appear to the Department of Law to be meritorious, based upon affidavits filed
in such Court by private parties.
   (g)   Perform such other duties as may be assigned to the office of the
Department of Law by law, and as may be necessary and proper in the
administration of the business of the City. The Law Department shall not be
obligated to perform legal services for the Oakwood school district.
127.02 BOND.
   The City Attorney shall furnish bond, as required by the Charter, in the
amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000).
 
   127.03 BOND COUNSEL.
   Whenever Council proposes to issue bonds or notes to finance public
improvements, or for any other purpose authorized by the laws of the State, the
Department of Law may engage the services of any firm of recognized bond
attorneys to assist the Department of Law in causing such bonds and notes to be
issued and to render approving opinions thereon to purchasers of such bonds and
notes.
Legislative history: Ord. 2149 passed 7/11/60; Ord. 4047 passed 4/1/91.
CHAPTER 129
Safety Department
129.01   City Manager as Safety Director; divisions.
129.02   Division of Police; composition.
129.03   Division of Police; duties.
129.04   Control of personnel; authority of City Manager.
129.05   Emergencies; responsibility of personnel.
129.06   Emergencies; appointment of additional personnel.
129.07   Chief of Police; duties.
129.08   Bond; uniforms.
129.09   Telephone-radio operators.
129.10   School traffic watchmen.
129.11   Retirement badge.
129.12   Special policemen.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Duties - see CHTR.
5.12
State law provisions - see ORC Ch. 737
Employment provisions - see ADM. Ch.
141
Auxiliary police, firemen for civil defense - see ADM.
149.03
Resisting, abusing or impersonating, see GEN. OFF.
501.05,
501.06
False reports and alarms - see GEN. OFF.
501.07,501.08
 
 
129.01 CITY MANAGER AS SAFETY DIRECTOR; DIVISIONS.
   The Safety Department shall be under the direction of the City Manager
unless another director of that department has been appointed under Section
5.02  of the Charter of the City. The Safety Department shall be composed of
the Division of Police and such other divisions as may hereafter be
established.
129.02 DIVISION OF POLICE; COMPOSITION.
   A.   The Division of Police shall be composed of such number of persons in
various ranks as may be determined by the City Manager on the basis of his
judgment as to the organizational staffing which will best serve the City,
commensurate with the budget restrictions within which the Division of Police
must operate.
   B.   The Division of Police shall be classified by the City Manager as
required by law and all employees and personnel of the Division of Police shall
continue in the same position which they have heretofore (prior to December 18,
1967) held in the Safety Department, but subject to the modifications made by
this chapter.
 
129.03 DIVISION OF POLICE; DUTIES.
   The Division of Police shall provide a unified police and fire service in
which both police and fire services are rendered by the same personnel. This
division shall perform the following duties:
   A.   Be responsible for the preservation of the public peace and order, the
prevention and detection of crime, the apprehension of violators of law and
ordinances, the protection of persons and property and the enforcement of the
criminal laws of the United States, of the State of Ohio and the ordinances of
the City.
   B.   Be responsible for the prevention of fire, for control and
extinguishment of fires within the City, and for the protection of lives and
property endangered by fire.
129.04 CONTROL OF PERSONNEL; AUTHORITY OF CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager or his authorized representative shall have exclusive
control of the stationing and transfer of all members of the Division of
Police. Such personnel shall obey the instructions of the City Manager to them
regarding the fulfillment of the duties recited in Section
129.03. The City Manager may prescribe more specific duties for such personnel
as he may deem necessary. Further, the City Manager may prescribe such
additional duties as in his discretion seem appropriate in the best interests
of the City.
129.05 EMERGENCIES; RESPONSIBILITY OF PERSONNEL.
   Whenever the officer in command of the Division of Police determines that an
emergency has arisen or is about to arise, he shall order such members of that
division to duty as are not then on duty and as in his judgment may be
necessary to meet the emergency. It shall be the duty of every member of the
Division of Police receiving such an order to report to duty and to comply with
such order with reasonable promptness and dispatch. Members of the Division of
Police so recalled to duty shall be paid additional compensation as required by
the salary ordinances or labor union contract then in effect.
129.06 EMERGENCIES; APPOINTMENT OF ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL.
   If the City Manager determines an emergency has arisen or is about to arise
making such action necessary, he may appoint additional members to the Division
of Police for temporary services. Such temporary service members shall not be
in the classified service.
 
129.07 CHIEF OF POLICE; DUTIES.
   The Safety Director shall be in charge of the operation of the Division of
Police, and any reference to the Chief of Police in the ordinances of this city
shall be construed as a reference to the Safety Director. The director shall be
accountable to the City Manager and shall perform the following duties:
   A.   Formulate and recommend to the City Manager for approval policies,
procedures, rules and regulations for the government and operation of the
Division of Police and its personnel.
   B.   Be responsible for the performance by the Division of Police of the
duties assigned to it by the Charter, by law and by this chapter.
   C.   Provide for the training and instruction of police officers.
   D.   Act as liaison officer in the cooperation by the City with other law
enforcement agencies.
   E.   Perform such other duties as the City Manager may prescribe.
129.08 BOND; UNIFORMS.
   Personnel of the Division of Police and all telephone-radio operators shall
give bonds in the amount of $2,500.00 each, conditioned upon the faithful
performance of their duties. These bonds shall not be required for school
traffic watchmen. Such bonds shall be executed by a surety company authorized
to do business in the state and the premium on such bonds shall be paid by the
City from the general fund. The personnel of the Division of Police shall be
furnished with the necessary uniforms by the City, and the cost thereof shall
be paid by the City from the general fund.
129.09 TELEPHONE-RADIO OPERATORS.
   The City Manager may from time to time designate patrolmen to act, for as
long as the City Manager may deem it advisable, as telephone-radio operators.
Such patrolmen shall, for such time as they may serve in such capacity, retain
their rank and salary as patrol- men. The City Manager may also designate
personnel other than members of the Division of Police to act as telephone-
radio operators and, in addition, may assign such personnel to administrative
duties in the Division of Police. However, such designation and assignment
shall in no way be deemed to make such personnel members of the Division of
Police.
 
129.10 SCHOOL TRAFFIC WATCHMEN.
   The City Manager may assign personnel of the Division of Police, or may
assign other employees of the City, to duties as school traffic watchmen. Any
such other employees not part of the Division of Police shall not be deemed to
become personnel of that division merely by reason of assignment to them of
such duties.
129.11 RETIREMENT BADGE.
   Each policeman who has retired honorably from the Division of Police and
placed on pension under the pension laws of Ohio, shall be entitled to a badge
indicating that such member is so retired, provided that such member shall
first surrender his regular policeman's badge to the Chief of Police. The badge
for such retired men shall be of such design and material as the City Manager
may adopt, and it shall display on its face in plain letters the word
"retired."
129.12 SPECIAL POLICEMEN.
   A.   Organization. The City Manager, subject to confirmation by Council, is
hereby authorized to appoint special policemen who shall be organized as an
auxiliary corps of the Safety Department. Such appointments shall be made by
written certificate signed by the City Manager. The Safety Director shall be
the executive officer of such auxiliary corps.
   B.   Rules and regulations. The City Manager is hereby authorized to
establish rules and regulations, other than those contained in this section,
relative to the selection, retention and length of service of special
policemen.
   C.   Membership. The City Manager may appoint anyone he deems qualified to
serve as a special policeman, including but not limited to present employees of
the City.
   D.   Duties; compensation. Such special policemen shall constitute an
auxiliary corps for the purpose of assisting the Safety Department. It shall be
the duty of such special policemen to respond promptly to calls to duty when
given by the City Manager or his authorized representative. They shall be
subject to the orders of the City Manager and shall obey all the rules of the
City Manager applicable to special policemen. They shall conform to the general
discipline and regulations of the Safety Department. Each special police
officer shall possess during the term of his appointment all the powers and
privileges and perform all the duties of a patrolman in the Division of Police.
No such special police officer shall be paid out of City funds for his police
services, however, unless his appointment has been made upon application by the
City for service exclusively on behalf of the City in one of its departments.
 
   E.   Uniforms. The City Manager or his authorized representative is hereby
authorized and directed to design the special police uniform and badge and to
promulgate rules as to when, where and how they shall be worn. All special
policemen shall furnish at their own expense the necessary uniforms and badges
so prescribed.
   F.   Oath. The Clerk of Council shall administer an oath to every person
appointed as a special policeman pursuant to this section. The oath shall be
similar to the oath administered to regular police officers of the City. In the
event the Clerk of Council is absent by reason of sickness, vacation or for any
other reason, such oath may be administered by a Notary Public in and for
Montgomery County, Ohio.
   G.   Surety bond. Each special police officer shall furnish and pay for a
surety bond, conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties, in the sum
of $2,000.00. Such bond shall be subject to the approval of the City Attorney.
Legislative history: Ord. 690 passed 1/11/28; Ord. 1407 passed 6/19/44; Ord.
2083 passed 6/15/59; Ord. 2149 passed 7/11/60; Ord. 2520 passed 12/18/67; Ord.
2838 pass /73; Ord. 2839 passed 7/9/73; Ord. 2840 passed 7/9/73.
 
CHAPTER 131
Service Department
131.01   Service Director; functions.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Departments - see CHTR.
5.01 et seq.
 
 
131.01 SERVICE DIRECTOR; FUNCTIONS.
   A.   The Service Department (also referred to as the Public Works
Department) shall be under the direction of a Public Works Director who shall
be accountable to the City Manager.
   B.   Under supervision of its director, the Service Department shall perform
the following duties:
      1.   maintain and repair the public buildings, parks and grounds owned
and operated by the City.
      2.   maintain, repair, construct, improve and extend the public streets
of the City;
      3.   collect, remove and dispose of garbage, rubbish, trimmings, refuse
and trash from residence and other places within the City;
      4.   trim and prune trees and shrubbery upon the public streets and the
land of the City and remove dead trees and tree stumps therefrom;
      5.   maintain, repair, construct, improve and extend the storm and
sanitary sewer systems of the City;
      6.   apply and maintain all traffic control markings upon the streets and
curbs of the City;
      7.   prepare and maintain maps and records of the streets, sewers,
buildings, and premises as may be necessary to operate the department properly;
and
      8.   Oversee the operation of the parks, recreational facilities, and all
related services of the City; and
      9.   perform such other duties as may be required by the City Manager.
   C.   As of December 1, 2025, all functions of the former Department of
Leisure Services have been transferred to and assumed by the Department of
Public Works. After that date, any reference to the Department of Leisure
Services, whether within the Oakwood Administrative Code or any other ordinance
of this City, shall be deemed to refer to the Department of Public Works.
Legislative history: Ord. 2149 passed 7/11/60; Ord. 2481 passed 7/9/73; Ord.
5032. passed 1/5/26.
CHAPTER 135
Water Department
135.01   City Manager as Water Director; functions.
135.02   Appeals to Sewer and Water Appeals Board.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Departments - see CHTR.
 5.01 et seq.
 
 
135.01 CITY MANAGER AS WATER DIRECTOR; FUNCTIONS.
   The Water Department shall be under the direction of the City Manager. The
depart- ment shall perform the following functions:
   A.    operate, maintain and repair the water works system of the City
including but not limited to the buildings used by that system and the
department, the wells, distribution lines, meters, tanks and fire hydrants;
   B.    distribute through the system to the residences, hydrants and other
places within the City all water pumped from City wells or purchased from other
sources;
   C.   maintain accurate records of water pumped, purchased and sold to
consumers, render invoices for water consumption to purchasers and collect
payment from consumers for such water as directed by the Finance Director;
   D.   perform such maintenance and repair work upon the sanitary and storm
sewers of the City as the City Manager may direct; and
   E.   perform such other duties pertaining to the distribution of water as
the City Manager may direct.
135.02 APPEALS TO SEWER AND WATER APPEALS BOARD.
   Persons who wish to dispute the amount of their water bills may appeal to
the Sewer and Water Appeals Board as described in Chapter
167 of these Codified Ordinances.
Legislative history: Ord. 2149 passed 7/11/60.
CHAPTER 137
Leisure Services Department
137.01 Creation of Department; Director.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
See Chap.
171 for Leisure Services Advisory Board
 
 
137.01 CREATION OF DEPARTMENT; DIRECTOR.
   A Personnel Department shall be part of the organizational structure of the
City. It shall be under the direction of the Director of that department who
shall be accountable to the City Manager. The Director shall perform the
following duties:
   A.   Serve as the Personnel Officer for all purposes under the Charter and
ordinances of this City;
   B.   Oversee the administration of the City's personnel functions,
consistent with a job description promulgated and updated by the City Manager
from time to time; and
   C.   Perform such other duties as may be required by the City Manager.
Legislative history: Ord. 3809, passed 11/7/88.
CHAPTER 139
Clerk of Council
139.01   Duties.
139.02   Absence and acting clerks; compensation.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Duties, etc. - see CHTR.
 2.11.
Signing ordinances - see CHTR.
3.03.
Council agenda - see ADM.
111.18.
 
 
139.01 DUTIES.
   The Clerk of Council shall be appointed by the Council under Charter
 2.11  to perform such duties as are required of that position by the City
Charter and, in addition, the following duties:
   A.    Serve as recording secretary to such other boards and commissions as
the City Manager may direct, giving appropriate notices of meetings and
advertising public hearings. The Clerk shall write and maintain in separate
books the minutes of meetings and perform such other functions in regard to
such bodies as may be required.
   B.    If appointed by the Municipal Judge, the Clerk shall serve as Clerk of
the Oakwood Municipal Court, receiving separate compensation therefor.
   C.   Perform such other duties as may be assigned by the City Manager.
      (Ord. 5032. Passed 1/5/26.)
139.02 ABSENCE AND ACTING CLERKS; COMPENSATION.
   A.    During any temporary absence of the Clerk of Council, or vacancy in
that role, an Acting Clerk of Council may be designated by the City Manager
from among those persons then employed by the City. The person so appointed
shall perform the functions of the Clerk of Council in addition to that
employee's previously assigned duties.
   B.   Any employee, serving as an Acting Clerk of Council shall receive
additional compensation on an hourly basis for the time expended in attending
Council meetings and performing related duties. Such compensation shall be paid
at the same rate at which such employee is paid in his other position with the
City, computed on the basis of an eight hour day, five days per week, and
subject to the payment of overtime as may be required by law.
Legislative history: Ord. 2149 passed 7/11/60; Ord. 2648 passed 10/20/69; Ord.
5032. passed 1/5/26.
CHAPTER 141
Personnel Matters
141.01   Authority of City Manager to make Personnel Regulations.
141.02    Merit system/definitions.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Personnel provisions - see CHTR.
Art. VIII.
Oath - see CHTR. Sec.
11.01.
Bond - see CHTR. Sec.
11.02.
Deductions for dues and savings - see ORC 9.41, 9.43.
Deductions for municipal income tax - see ORC 9.42.
Transfer by Manager - see ADM.
123.04.
Employment benefits - see ADM.
143.
Subpoena power for Personnel Appeals Board - see ADM.
160.02
 
 
141.01 AUTHORITY OF CITY MANAGER TO MAKE PERSONNEL REGULATIONS.
    The city manager is authorized to make personnel regulations to govern
management practices on personnel matters by establishing standards and
procedures and providing detail to personnel-related. Charter provisions or
ordinances. Such regulations are to serve as a guideline as to situations not
specifically dealt with by the Charter, any personnel ordinances, or an
applicable labor contract.
141.02 MERIT SYSTEM/DEFINITIONS.
   A.   Pursuant to Article VIII, Section
 8.01 , of the Charter, except as modified by Section
8.02 , the merit system of employment shall prevail. Seniority shall be one
factor in the determination of merit, but in no case shall seniority be deemed
to supersede the application of merit employment principles. . This principle
of merit employment shall apply to hiring, promotion, ingrade increases and to
the continued employment of any employee. _It shall also be deemed to require
employees to acquire and maintain the necessary skills, abilities and
certifications to fulfill properly and completely the duties of the
classification in which they are employed.
   B.   The following definitions shall apply under Chapter
141:
      1.   Appointing authority. The City Manager is the appointing authority
for the City by authority of the City Charter.
      2.   Exempt classifications. Classifications specifically exempted from
competitive examinations by the City Charter are:
         (a)   members of Council;
         (b)   Clerk of Council;
         (c)   City Manager;
         (d)   directors of the departments;
         (e)   secretary to the City Manager;
          (f)   assistant to the City Manager;
         (g)   members of boards and commissions appointed by the Council and
Advisory Committees appointed by the City Manager;
         (h)   temporary employees of exceptional, professional or scientific
qualifications engaged as consultants;
         (i)   unskilled laborers; and
         (j)   seasonal and part-time employees.
         (k)   Council may act by ordinance to designate other positions which
may be filled (by original appointment or by promotion) without the necessity
of such examinations. The positions of Accounting Specialist I/II, City
Engineer/Assistant Public Works Director, Water Plant Superintendent, Dept.
Head Administrative Assistant, Public Works Department Foreman, and Custodian
have been designated as exempt classifications which may be filled without the
necessity of merit system examination.
The position of Public Safety Captain is also one which may be filled without
the necessity of merit system examination. The unique duties and administrative
responsibilities of the position require that professional education,
experience and training be used as the selection criteria in making
appointments. While the City may use a written examination as part of the
selection process, the results of the examination will not serve as the primary
basis for appointment to this position.
      3.   Classified employees. Same as non-exempt employees.
      4.   Non-exempt classifications. Employees not specifically exempt by the
Charter of the City of Oakwood are sometimes referred to as non-exempt
employees. Such non-exempt or classified employees shall be employed under the
classified service of the City. Appointment to the classified services of the
City shall be determined on the basis of open, competitive examinations except
when there is only one qualified candidate.
       5.   Full-time employees. Employees scheduled to work at least forty
(40) hours per week throughout the year shall be considered full-time employees
and shall have all rights, benefits and obligations as determined in these
Personnel Regulations. Employees in this category may be salaried or paid by
the hour.
      6.   Calendar year. Twelve month period beginning January 1 and ending
December 31 of each year.
      7.   Fiscal year. Same as calendar year.
      8.   Work year. A period of twelve consecutive months beginning on the
first day of employment for any individual. All benefits shall accrue from date
of employment.
      9.   Eligibility list. A list of potential employees who are ranked by
the Personnel Officer based on their comparative standing.
         (a)   Original eligibility list. A list of potential employees who are
ranked by the Personnel Officer according to their scores on the employment
examination.
         (b)   Promotional eligibility list. A list of employees who are ranked
by the Personnel Officer according to their scores on the promotional exam for
the position which the employees have applied.
         (c)   Reappointment eligibility list. A list created by the Personnel
Officer in which the employees shall be ranked in inverse order of their
layoff.
      10.   Regular Part-time employees. Employees who normally work less than
forty hours per week. Said employees in this category shall be paid by the hour
and shall not be entitled to any benefits outlined in the Personnel Schedule or
the Personnel Regulations, except for pro-rated sick leave, vacation and
holiday benefits.
      11.   Temporary or Seasonal employees. Employees hired to complete a
specified project or task and who normally work less than 1,250 hours per year.
Said employees in this category shall be paid by the hour and shall not be
entitled to any benefits allowed in the Personnel Schedule or the Personnel
Regulations, except for holidays which may occur during their employment.
      12.   Probation. That period of time which begins immediately after a
person becomes a full-time employee of the City. All full-time appointees shall
serve a minimum probationary period of one year unless specified to the
contrary in the current applicable collective bargaining agreement.
       13.   Personnel Appeals Board. A three member board created by the City
Charter, the members of which are appointed by the City Council for the purpose
of hearing appeals by City employees in the classified service who are not part
of a grievance procedure under a labor contract, and who have been suspended,
demoted in position or compensation, or discharged.
      14.   Layoff. A reduction in the work force of the City as determined by
the City Manager.
      15.   Leaves. An authorized paid or unpaid absence or vacation from duty
or employ- ment for a specified period of time.
      16.   Allowances. Consist of monetary reimbursement by the City for
activity which involves an extraordinary expense to the employee, e.g. meal
allowance, private automobile allowance. All such allowances must be authorized
in advance by the department head and approved by the City Manager for payment.
      17.   Retirement. To withdraw from active duty with the City of Oakwood
subject to the applicable rules, regulations and statutes of the State of Ohio
and after attaining the age and length of service (or disability status)
necessary to immediately qualify Jnd receive a pension in accordance with the
rules of the Public Employees Retirement System or the Police and Fire Pension
Fund of Ohio.
      18.   Resignation. Voluntary withdrawal of employment from the City.
Employees resigning from the service of the City shall not be entitled to
compensation for accumulated sick leave.
      19.   Abolishment of position. Elimination of any particular position or
classification from the personnel structure of the City.
      20.   City. Shall mean the city of Oakwood.
  
Legislative history: Ord. 3831, passed 12/19/88, enacted new Chapter
141 and repealed previous Chapter
141. The following is legislative history in regard to the previous versions of
this chapter: Ord. 3177, passed 12/19/60; Ord. 2587, passed 10/14/68; Ord.
2772, passed 1/3/72; Ord. 3000, passed 6/20/77; Ord. 3230; passed 10/5/81; Ord.
3131, passed 10/5/81; Ord. 3232, passed 10/19/81; Ord. 3746, passed 5/2/88;
Ord. 3825, passed 11/21/88; Ord. 3832, passed 12/19/88; Ord. 4032, passed 1/7/
91; Ord. 4169, passed 10/19/92; Ord. 4182, passed 2/1/93; Ord. 4197, passed 4/
12/93; Ord. 4232, passed 1/3/94; Ord. 4235, passed 1/17 /94; Ord. 4255, passed
6/20/94; Ord. 4309, passed 10/16/95; Ord. 4436, passed 7/12/99; Ord. 4464,
passed 7/17/00; Ord. 45 21, passed 9/23/02; Ord. 4555, passed 7/19/04; Ord.
4558, passed 8/9/04; Ord. 4811, passed 9/21/2015; Ord. 5032. passed 1/5/26.
See also CHTR.
 8.01 ,
8.02 ,
8.05.
 
CHAPTER 143
Employment Benefits
 
143.01   Indemnification and legal defense.
143.02   Support of volunteers, employees and officials.
143.03   Service and recognition awards.
 
 
 
EDITOR'S NOTE:
Most employment benefrts for City employees are not codified here since they
are (for union employees) included in collective bargaining or (for management
and non- union employees) are covered by non-codified ordinances. Compensation
for City employees is not codified since it is subject to frequent change.
CROSS REFERENCES
Welfare - see Ohio Const., Art II, Sec. 34.
Worker's compensation - see Ohio Const., Art. II, Sec. 35; ORC Ch. 4123.
Wages and hours on public works - see Ohio Const., Art. 11, Sec. 37; ORC Ch.
4115.
Public Employees Retirement System - see ORC Ch. 145.
Expenses for attendance at conference or convention - see ORC 733.79.
Uniform allowance, plainclothes duty - see ADM.
129.05.
Police retirement badge - see ADM.
129.06.
 
 
143.01 INDEMNIFICATION AND LEGAL DEFENSE.
   A.   The City shall defend its employees, volunteers, non-employee
prosecuting attorneys engaged through the city attorney, and appointed and
elected officials in and from any and all lawsuits, claims, and demands based
upon or arising from actions or services any such person has taken or performed
within the scope of his or her responsibilities for the city, or has taken or
performed as a member of non-City boards, commissions or organizations to the
extent the participation in such outside organizations results from any such
person's status as an employee, volunteer, such an attorney, or an official of
Oakwood and is undertaken as a service for or benefit to the City of Oakwood.
The same defense protection shall be provided to former employees, officials,
volunteers, or such attorneys against claims, lawsuits and demands based on
matters which occurred while any such person was rendering services to this
city.
   B.   The City shall also indemnify each of its employees to the extent
required by Ohio Revised Code Section 2744.07(A), and shall provide not less
than the same extent of indemnification protection to its elected and appointed
public officials, to its volunteers, and to non-employee prosecuting attorneys
engaged through the city attorney, even though such indemnification of those
officials, volunteers, or prosecuting attorneys may not be required by that
Ohio statute, and shall hold all such persons harmless on such matters. The
same indemnification and hold harmless protection shall be provided to former
employees, officials, volunteers, and such attorneys against claims, lawsuits
and demands based on matters which occurred while any such person was rendering
services to this city.
143.02 SUPPORT OF VOLUNTEERS, EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS.
   The Finance Director may expend funds of the City as approved by the City
Manager for the support of meetings and activities of volunteers, members of
boards, commissions and committees, City employees and officials, and residents
of the City. Meetings and activities which receive such support shall be those
deemed by the City Manager to advance or promote the best interests of this
City. For such purposes the City Manager may authorize the purchase of such
supplies, food, beverages (including alcoholic beverages) and materials of any
type as the City Manager may deem appropriate for those meetings and
activities.
143.03 SERVICE AND RECOGNITION AWARDS.
   In recognition of years of service and/or in recognition of special
contributions made to this City by volunteers, members of boards, commissions
and committees, employees and officials, the Finance Director may expend City
funds as approved by the City Manager for the purchase of service and/or
recognition awards. Such awards may include items of monetary value. To the
extent such awards create income tax liability for the recipient, the City
Manager may authorize the Finance Director to pay to the tax authorities as
withholding taxes such percentage of the award value as is appropriate under
applicable tax regulations.
Legislative history: Ord. 3527 passed 1/6/86; Ord. 3535 passed 2/17/86; Ord.
3726 passed 2/29/88; Ord. 3865 passed 6/5/89; Ord. 4096, passed 11/18/91.
CHAPTER 145
Purchases and Contracts
 
145.01   Definitions.
145.02   Home Rule Declaration.
145.03   Contracting Authority.
145.04   Formal Bidding Procedures.
145.05   Opening and Evaluation of Formal Bids.
145.06   Governmental Cooperative Purchasing Programs.
145.07   Purchase Orders.
145.08   Collection Agency Contracts.
145.09   Petty Cash.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Purchasing, bidding, etc. - see CHTR.
5.05, et seq.
Finance Director to disburse funds - see CHTR.
5.11.
Department of Finance - see AC Ch.
125.
 
 
145.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   A.   "Bid security" means appropriate security guaranteeing that if awarded,
the bidder will enter into a contract conforming to the City's specifications
and satisfactory to the City, and will properly secure its performance
thereunder as required in the specifications. Bid security may be evidenced by:
      1.   A certified check, cashier's check, or letter of credit, in form and
substance satisfactory to the City Attorney, drawn upon or issued by a bank or
other financial institution, in an amount not less than five percent (5%) of
the amount of the bid; or
      2.   A bid bond, in form and substance satisfactory to the City Attorney,
from a surety company authorized to do business in the State of Ohio, in an
amount not less than five percent (5%) of the amount of the bid.
   B.   "Competitive bidding threshold" means the greater of $50,000, or the
minimum threshold contract value, as established by state law for county
contracts, for utilizing formal competitive procedures.
   C.   "Competitive bidding," "competitive bidding procedures" and
"competitive selection" mean the formal bidding procedures set forth in
Sections
145.04 and
145.05.
   D.   "Governmental cooperative purchasing program" means, without
limitation, any of the following:
      1.   A program whereby political subdivisions may participate in state
contracts arranged by the Office of State Purchasing (part of the Ohio
Department of Administrative Services) pursuant to Revised Code 125.04;
      2.   Any other cooperative purchasing program that allows for
participation in contracts or pricing schedules negotiated by the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions;
       3.   Any opportunity, regardless of whether the same constitutes a
program, for the City to contract with a Vendor on terms that were obtained by
another political subdivision through that subdivision's competitive process,
where the price and other terms are favorable to the City.
   E.   "Informal procedures" means purchasing or contracting in any manner
appropriate to the City's need or purpose, including but not limited to the
solicitation of proposals, quotes or informal bids, or direct negotiation with
Vendors. Informal procedures do not require competitive selection.
   F.   "Lowest and best responsible" means the Vendor whose bid offers the
lowest price after taking into account the Vendor's prior performance history
with this City or other entities, the Vendor's demonstrated capabilities, any
delivery and quality requirements, and any other fact revealed through the
investigation made pursuant to Section
145.05 (B) that is material to selecting the Vendor best able to meet the
City's need in a cost-effective, responsible manner. The term "lowest and best
responsible" shall not be construed to require the City to select a Vendor
based upon price alone.
   G.   "Vendor" and "Vendors," when so capitalized, are collective terms and
include, without limitation, any seller, vendor, distributor, supplier, source,
contractor or other provider of supplies, materials, equipment, labor or any
other item or service whatsoever.
145.02 HOME RULE DECLARATION.
The procedures described in this Chapter shall govern all purchasing and
contracting for the city of Oakwood, and are intended as an exercise of the
City's power of local self-government pursuant to Section
1.02 of the City Charter and Section 3, Article XVIII of the Constitution of
the State of Ohio. Except to the extent that state law may be expressly
incorporated, this Chapter shall supersede state law with respect to the
subject matter herein. Specifically, but without limiting the superseding
effect of this Chapter, the City shall not be obligated to follow the
procedures set forth in Ohio Revised Code Sections 9.312, 9.313, 9.32 and 9.33
through 9.332, nor to follow the construction contract, public improvement or
professional design contract procedures set forth in Chapter 153 of the Ohio
Revised Code. Where this Chapter may be silent on a matter that is material to
contracting and purchasing for the city of Oakwood, the City Manager is and
shall be authorized to use such additional procedures as he or she deems to be
in the best interest of the City.
145.03 CONTRACTING AUTHORITY.
   A.   The City Manager is the Purchasing and Contracting Agent for the City.
The Purchasing and Contracting Agent is authorized to make any contract;
purchase any supplies, materials and equipment; provide labor for any work or
improvement; purchase, hire or retain any services; and make any other
agreement or expenditure on the City's behalf consistent with the City Charter
and all applicable laws. To the extent sufficient funds have been appropriated
by Council, the Purchasing and Contracting Agent may act under this Chapter
without the need for further legislative authorization. The City Manager may
delegate any portion of his or her authority as Purchasing and Contracting
Agent to the head of any City department.
   B.   If the probable cost of a purchase, or probable City obligation under a
contract, will equal or exceed the competitive bidding threshold, the
Purchasing and Contracting Agent shall resort to formal bidding under Section
145.04, subject to any applicable exceptions. Where the probable cost or
obligation is below the competitive bidding threshold, or where an exception to
formal bidding applies, the Purchasing and Contracting Agent may award the
purchase or contract through informal procedures.
   C.   In exercising his or her authority under this Chapter, the Purchasing
and Contracting Agent shall endeavor to procure items or services on terms that
will minimize expense to the City while remaining consistent with delivery and
quality requirements.
145.04 FORMAL BIDDING PROCEDURES.
   A.   Formal sealed bids shall be used to determine the lowest and best
responsible Vendor for the awarding of any purchase or contract that is subject
to formal bidding under Section
145.03(B).
   B.   Formal bids shall be solicited by publishing an advertisement once a
week, for not less than two weeks, in a newspaper of general circulation in the
City. The advertisement shall set forth the day, hour and place of the bid
opening, and shall provide contact information for the person or department
responsible for distributing specifications and/or bidding instructions. If, in
the discretion of the Purchasing and Contracting Agent, publication in a
professional or trade publication or internet website is more likely to attract
bidders appropriate to the City's need or purpose, publication may be made in
that forum instead, for a similar duration.
   
   C.   Each bid must conform to the following general requirements:
      1.   Each bid shall contain the full name of each person or company
interested therein;
      2.   Each bid shall be accompanied by appropriate bid security; and
      3.   No bid may be altered or modified after it has been delivered to the
City.
   D.   The City may establish prequalifications or prerequisites for bidders,
including but not limited to references and a statement of similar work
previously performed.
   E.   Formal bidding shall not be required in any of the following
situations, which shall constitute exceptions to the general rule set forth
above in subsection (A), regardless of the probable cost or obligation to be
incurred:
      1.   Public emergency declared in a resolution by a four-fifths vote of
Council;
      2.   Where proximity of the supplier and/or immediate availability of the
product or service is a determinative factor;
      3.   Where special or unusual circumstances make it advisable that the
City deal with a particular Vendor on a sole-source basis;
       4.   Where a contract has already been entered into and a change order
is sought for additional items or services, so long as all such change orders
on a particular contract do not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the
original contract amount;
      5.   Participation in state contracts arranged by the Office of State
Purchasing (part of the Ohio Department of Administrative Services) pursuant to
Ohio Revised Code Section 125.04, or any other governmental cooperative
purchasing program;
      6.   Where a purchase or contract can be obtained locally at a price
below the price offered under a governmental cooperative purchasing program;
      7.   Contracts for professional or personal services;
      8.   Contracts for insurance, employee benefits, or other products or
services where the purchase price or rates have been obtained through the
services of a broker hired or contracted by the City;
      9.   Any other situation in which Council declares, by resolution, that
the best interests of the City would be served by dispensing with the
requirement of formal bidding for a particular purchase or contract; and
      10.   Any other exception in this chapter or allowed by the Charter or
Ohio law.
145.05 OPENING AND EVALUATION OF FORMAL BIDS.
   A.   The Purchasing and Contracting Agent shall open and publicly read the
formal bids on the last day such bids may be filed with the City.
   B.   After sealed bids have been opened, the Purchasing and Contracting
Agent may make an investigation into the responsibility of various bidders. If
any contract is awarded, the Purchasing and Contracting Agent shall award such
contract to the lowest and best responsible bidder. Before any contract is
signed, it shall be submitted to the Finance Director for encumbrance and
certification, and the contract shall also be approved as to form by the City
Attorney.
   C.   The Purchasing and Contracting Agent may reject any individual bid, or
a particular portion of all bids, in the following circumstances:
      1.   When there is reason to believe that collusion or combination has
occurred among bidders;
      2.   Failure to comply with the bid specifications, unless the Purchasing
and Contracting Agent waives any irregularities;
      3.   The Purchasing and Contracting Agent, in his or her discretion,
determines that the interest of the City would be served by doing so.
   When no bid is received in response to a solicitation for bids, or if no bid
sets fixed prices applicable during the term of the contract, or if no sealed
bid is received for an amount within the City's good-faith cost estimate, or
when no bid fully complies with the specifications and/or bidding instructions
made available to interested bidders, the Purchasing and Contracting Agent
shall have the option to make the purchase through informal procedures or to
readvertise so as to repeat the formal bidding process. The City Manager shall
inform Council before proceeding under this provision. For purposes of this
section, a rejected bid shall be deemed not to have been received by the City.
145.06 GOVERNMENTAL COOPERATIVE PURCHASING PROGRAMS.
   The Purchasing and Contracting Agent is authorized to make purchases and
contracts by participating in any governmental cooperative purchasing program.
Consistent with this authority, the Purchasing and Contracting Agent may bind
the City to all lawful contract terms and conditions prescribed by such
program, including payment of a reasonable fee by the City to cover
administrative costs incurred by the program as a result of this City's
participation. In entering into such contracts, the City Manager is authorized
and directed to agree that the City will pay the Vendor directly for items the
City receives.
145.07 PURCHASE ORDERS.
   After following the proper bidding process or after utilizing informal
procedures, as appropriate, a purchase order will be prepared. All purchase
orders shall be submitted to the Director of Finance and/or City Manager for
certification (see Section
125.01(D)). Blanket purchase orders may be issued for an estimated year's
supply of standardized material or services or to a supplier of various items
where buying convenience or a quantity discount is a factor. The Director of
Finance and/or City Manager may promulgate additional procedures, guidelines
and standard practices relating to purchase orders and the purchasing process,
as may be deemed necessary to facilitate proper financial record-keeping for
the City.
145.08 COLLECTION AGENCY CONTRACTS.
   The Purchasing and Contracting Agent shall have authority to enter into
contracts with collection agencies, on such terms as he or she deems to be in
the best interest of the City, for collection of sums of money due this City.
145.09 PETTY CASH.
   If an item being purchased is $100.00 or less, the purchase may be
considered a petty cash transaction. The head of the department making such
purchase shall approve all petty cash purchases using the proper form, as
provided by the Finance Department and consistent with procedures as may be
established by the City Manager.
Legislative history: The following is legislative history in regard to the
previous Chapter: Ord. 2149, passed 7/11/60; Ord. 2246, passed 1/21/63; Ord.
2569, passed 6/17/68; Ord. 2612, passed 2/17/69; Ord. 3235, passed 11/2/81;
Ord. 3259, passed 4/19/82; Ord. 3354, passed 6/6/83; Ord. 3706, passed 11/16/
87; Ord. 3707, passed 11/16/87; Ord. 3835, passed 12/19/88, enacted new Chapter
145 and REPEALED previous Chapter 145; Ord. 3891, passed 9/11/89; Ord. 3941,
passed 4/16/90; Ord. 4183, passed 3/1/93; Ord. 4184, passed 3/1/93; Ord. 4223,
passed 10/18/93; Ord. 4237, passed 2/7/94; Ord. 4324, passed 3/4/96; Ord. 4386,
passed 7/14/97; Ord. 4586, passed 5/2/05, effective 6/2/05; Ord.4775, passed 7/
15/13, enacted new Chapter
145 and REPEALED previous Chapter
145; Ord. 4941, passed 6/7/2021.
 
CHAPTER 147
Money, Investments and Funds
147.01   Definitions.
147.02   Findings by the Council; inapplicability of and incorporation of state
laws.
147.03   Depositories.
147.04   Security for repayment.
147.04.1   Optional pledging requirements to allow the pooling of pledged
securities.
147.05   Investments other than active deposits or cash reserves.
147.06   Miscellaneous provisions.
147.08   Treasury Investment Account.
147.09   Investment of City money.
147.10   Capital Improvement Fund.
147.11   Beautification Fund.
147.12   Refuse Fund.
147.13   Historical Preservation Fund; purpose and appropriations.
147.14   Annual request of tax advances from the County Auditor.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Purchasing, bidding, etc. - CHTR.
5.05 et seq.
Illegal contracts - see CHTR.
5.09.
Borrowing - see CHTR.
 Art. IX.
Deposit of public money - see ORC 117.17.
Treasury investment - see ORC 731.56 et seq.
Establishment of required funds - see ORC 5705.09.
Department of Finance - see ADM. Ch.
125.
 
 
147.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter and unless another definition is provided or the
content otherwise requires:
   A.   "Active deposit" means a deposit of the City's public money payable or
with- drawable in whole or in part as authorized in the Consumer Checking
Account Equity Act of 1980, 94 Stat. 146, 12 U.S.C.A. 1832(a).
   B.   "Eligible depository" means:
      1.   any national bank located in Ohio and any bank as defined by Section
1101.01 of the Revised Code of Ohio which is sL1bject to inspections by the
Ohio Superintendent of Banks; and
      2.   any domestic building and loan association as defined in ORC Section
1151.01 which is authorized to accept deposits.
   C.   "Public money" means all money in the treasury of the City, or.money
coming lawfully into the possession of the Finance Director.
   D.   "Uniform Depository Act" means Chapter 135 of the Revised Code of Ohio
and any amendment or supplement thereto. Whenever any provision of the Uniform
Depository Act is made applicable under this chapter, such provisions are
applicable only to the extent that they are not in conflict with or
inconsistent with the Charter and ordinances or resolutions.
147.02 FINDINGS BY THE COUNCIL; INAPPLICABILITY OF AND INCORPORATION OF STATE
LAWS.
   A.   The Council hereby makes the following findings with respect to the
authorization and the establishment of the policies and procedures for the
deposit and investment of public money in the treasury:
      1.   The authorization and establishment of such policies and procedures
are powers of local self-government which may be exercised by the City through
its ordinances under Sections 3 and 7 of Article XVIII of the Ohio Constitution
and
Article II of the Charter.
      2.   The authorization and establishment of such policies and procedures
are in the best interests of the City and its citizens: (a) to provide a more
efficient management of the City's money and investments; and (b) to enable the
City to earn a greater yield on its investments and to provide safeguards of
the City's money.
   B.   The Uniform Depository Act shall not apply to the City, except as it
may be adopted by reference under this chapter. Section 135.11 of the Revised
Code of Ohio, pertaining to exemption from conflict of interest laws, shall
apply to the City, however.
   C.   In its actions and decisions regarding the deposit and investment of
public money, the City may follow the procedures of the Uniform Depository Act
from time to time, may elect to proceed under this Chapter
147 in other situations, and may change this election at any time and from time
to time with the result that the Uniform Depository Act may apply to certain
portions of the public funds of this City while Chapter
147 may apply to other portions of those funds.
   D.   To the extent that this chapter is applied to any particular amount of
public money, the Uniform Depository Act shall not apply to that portion of
money, except as it may be adopted by reference under this chapter. As noted in
paragraph B, however, ORC Section 135.11 (pertaining to exemption from conflict
of interest laws) always shall apply to the City.
Section 135.11 (pertaining to exemption from conflict of interest laws) always
shall apply to the City.
   E.   Sections 731.56 to 731.59, inclusive, of the Revised Code of Ohio shall
not apply to the City, except as ORC Section 731.59 is incorporated in part in
Section
147.05 of this chapter.
   F.   Unless incorporated by reference or otherwise made applicable in this
chapter, no other provision of the Revised Code of Ohio which is inconsistent
or in conflict with this chapter shall apply to the City.
147.03 DEPOSITORIES.
   A.   The City Manager shall determine the amount of public money which shall
be available in active deposits to provide the needed cash flow to pay warrants
and checks issued and outstanding (and to provide for a reasonable surplus in
addition thereto) and to maximize the interest received on public money of the
City. Interest on active deposits shall be paid or credited by the City's
designated eligible depositories at least quarterly and when funds are
withdrawn, computing the time of payment from the date of deposit. No .service
charge shall be made by a designated eligible depository against an Active
Deposit or collected from or paid by the Finance Director unless such service
charge is the same as is customarily imposed by institutions in the City
receiving money on deposit subject to check, in which event the Finance
Director may pay such charge. All public money of the City not deposited in
active deposits shall be invested pursuant to Section
147.05.
   B.   The City Manager shall, by a writing filed with the Clerk of Council.
designate one or more eligible depositories as the depository or depositories
of the City's active deposits. In making such designation the City Manager
shall consider the following:
      1.   the convenience of the location of the depository's offices;
      2.   the rate or rates of interest., if any, which the depository will
pay on the active deposits;
      3.   the service charges, if any, that wi!l be made for the services of
the depository; and
      4.   any other terms or conditions with respect to the depository's
acceptance of the City's active deposit.
   C.   The initial designation of depositories for the City's active deposits
shall be for a period not to exceed six months and may be made without giving
the notice hereinafter provided for. Subsequent designations of depositories
for the City's active deposits shall be for a period specified In the City
Manager's written designation of depositories described in the paragraph
immediately above. That period shail not be less than six months nor longer
than five years, and such subsequent designations shall be made after the
Finance Director has provided written notice by first-class mail to the
eligible depositories having an office in the City, and such other eligible
depositories as determined by the Finance Director, at least sixty days prior
to the date of the action of the City Manager designating depositories for the
City's active deposits.
   D.   Such notice shall provide an estimate of the maximum amount of such
active deposits at any time during the period of designation and the proposed
period of designation or alternative proposed periods of designation. It shall
also request such depositories to apply in writing for all or part of the
City's active deposits on or before a date and time specified in the notice.
The notice to such eligible depositories shall request them to state in their
applications the amount of active deposits which will be accepted by them, the
rate of interest, if any, which will be paid on such active deposits, the
service charges, if any, which will be made for their services, other terms or
conditions with respect to the acceptance of all or part of the City's active
deposits, and the location of their offices in the City, or if none are located
in the City, the location of their ne2rest offices.
   E.   The notice shall include or request any other information to or from
such depositories which the Finance Director deems reievant. The request for
written applica- tions or their receipt does not constitute a bidding
procedure. Rather, such request and application are intended to provide
relevant information to the City Mancigw for his or her designation pursuant to
this section and to provide notice to eligible depositories that the City will
receive applications and proposals for its active deposits.
   F.   The City Manager shall enter into a contract, approved as to form by
the City Attorney, with such depositories for the appropriate period determined
pursuant to this section. Such contract shall establish the rate of interest,
if any, to be paid by the depositorv on the City's active deposits, the service
charges, if any, the depository may make for its services, and other terms or
conditions of the depository's acceptance of the City's active deposits.
   G.   The limitations of the aggregate amounts of public money that may be on
deposit with eligible depositories as set forth in the Uniform Depository Act
shall apply under this chapter.
147.04 SECURITY FOR REPAYMENT OF DEPOSITS.
   A.   Before making the initial deposit in a public depository pursuant to an
award made under Section
147.03 or pursuant to an investment in a certificate of deposit under Section
147.05(b)(7), the Finance Director shall require the institution to pledge to
and deposit with him, as security for the repayment of all public money to be
deposited in the depository during the period of designation, eligible
securities of aggregate market value equal to the excess of the amount of
public money to be at the time so deposited, over and above such amount of that
money as is ;nsured by the federal deposit insurance corporation or by any
other agency or instrumentality of the federal government or of the State of
Ohio as may be approved by the City Manager and City Attorney. In the
alternative, the Finance Director may require such institution to deposit with
the City surety company bonds or other insurance policies approved by the City
Manager and City Attorney which, when executed, shall be for an amount equal to
such excess amount.
   B.   In the case of any deposit other than the initial deposit made during
the period of designation, the amount of the aggregate market value of
securities required to be pledged and deposited, or the surety company bonds
required to be deposited or the other insurance coverage required, shall be
equal to the difference between the amount of public money on deposit in such
public depository plus the amount to be so deposited, minus such portion or
amount of the aggregate as is at the time insured as provided in this section.
The Finance Director may require additional eligible securities to be deposited
to provide for any depreciation which may occur in the market value of any of
the securities so deposited.
   C.   The following securities shall be eligible for the purposes of this
section:
      1.   Bonds, notes, or other obligations of the United States: or bonds,
notes, or other obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by the
United States or those for which the faith of the United States is pledged for
the payment of principal and interest thereon, by language appearing in the
instrument specifically providing such guarantee or pledge and not merely by
interpretation or otherwise.
      2.   Bonds, notes, debentures, or other obligations or securities issued
by any federal government agency or the export-import bank of Washington. In
addition, bonds, notes, or other obligations guaranteed as to principal and
interest by the United States or those for which the faith of the United States
is pledged for the payment of principal and interest thereon, by language
appearing in the instrument specifically providing such guarantee or pledge and
not merely by interpretation or otherwise.
      3.   Bonds and other obligations of this state.
      4.   Bonds and other obligations of any country, township, school
district, municipal corporation (including the City) or other legally
constituted taxing subdivision of this state which is not at the time of such
deposit in default in the payment of principal or interest on any of its bonds
or other obligations, for which the full faith and credit of the issuing
subdivisions is pledged.
      5.   Bonds of other states of the United States which have not during the
ten years immediately preceding the time of such deposit defaulted in payments
of either interest or principal on any of their bonds.
      6.   Obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by the Ohio
Student Loan Commission.
   D.   If the depository fails to pay over any part of the deposit made
therein as provided by law, the Finance Director shall sell at public sale any
of the bonds or other securities deposited with him pursuant to this section or
ORC Section 131.09. Thirty days' notice of such sale shall be given in a
newspaper of general circulation at the county seat of the county in which the
office of the Director of Finance is located. Pursuant to division (c) of ORC
Section 135.18. when a sale of bonds or other securities has been so made and
upon payment to the Finance Director of the purchase money, the Finance
Director shall transfer such bonds or securities. At that time the absolute
ownership of such bonds or securities shall pass to the purchasers, and any
surplus remaining after deducting the amount due the state or subdivision and
expenses of sale shall be paid to the depository.
   E.   An institution designated as a depository may, by written notice to the
Finance Director, designate a qualified trustee and deposit the eligible
securities required by this section with the trustee for safekeeping for the
account of the Finance Director and the institution as a depository, as their
respective rights to and interests in such securities under this section may
appear and be asserted by written notice to or demand upon the trustee pursuant
to division (D) of ORC Section 135.18. In such case, the Finance Director shall
accept the written receipt of the trustee describing the securities which have
been so deposited, a copy of which shall also be delivered to the depository.
Thereupon all such securities so deposited are, pursuant to division (D) of ORC
Section 135.18, deemed to be pledged with the Director of Finance and to be
deposited with him for all purposes of this section.
   F.   The Council may make provisions for the exchange and release of
securities and the substitution of other eligible securities except where the
depository has deposited eligible securities with a trustee for safekeeping as
provided in this section.
   G.   When the depository has deposited eligible securities described in this
section with a trustee for safekeeping, the depository may at any time
substitute eligible securities described above having a current market value
equal to or greater than the current market value of the securities then on
deposit and for which they are to be substituted, without specific
authorization from the City Council or Finance Director of such substitution,
only if:
      1.   The Finance Director has authorized the depository to make such
substitution on a continuing basis during a specified period without prior
approval of each substitution. Such authorization may be effected by the
director sending to the trustee a written notice stating that substitution may
be effected on a continuing basis during a specified period which shall not
extend beyond the end of the period of designation during which the notice is
given. The trustee may rely upon such notice and upon the period of
authorization and the period of designation stated therein.
      2.   In the situation in which no continuing authorization for
substitution has been given by the Finance Director, the depository notifies
the Finance Director and the trustee of an intended substitution, and the
Finance Director fails to object to the trustee as to the eligibility or market
value of the securities being substituted within ten calendar days after the
date appearing on the notice of proposed substitution. The notice to the
Finance Director and to the trustee shall be given in writing and delivered
personally or by certified or registered mail with a return receipt requested.
The trustee may assume in any case that the notice has been delivered to the
Finance Director. In order for objections of the Finance Director to be
effective, receipt of the objections must be acknowledged in writing by the
trustee.
      3.   The Finance Director gives written authorization for a substitution
of specific securities.
   H.   The depository shall notify the Finance Director of any such
substitution. Upon request from the Finance Director, the trustee shall furnish
a statement of the securities pledged against such public deposits.
   I.   Pursuant to division (I) of ORC Section 135.18, any federal reserve
bank or branch thereof located in this state is qualified to act as trustee for
the safekeeping of securities under this section, even without complying with
ORC Sections 1109.03, 1109.04, 1109.17 and 1109.18 or with this chapter and
without becoming subject to ORC Section 1109.15 or any other law of Ohio
relative to the exercise by corporations of trust powers generally. Under
division (I) of ORC Section 135.18, any institution mentioned in ORC Section
135.03 which holds a certificate of qualification issued by the Superintendent
of Banks, and any institution complying with ORC Sections 1109.03, 1109.04,
1109.17 and 1109.18, also is qualified to act as trustee for the safekeeping of
securities, (other than those belonging to itself) under this section and under
ORC Section 135.18. Pursuant to said Section 135.18 and upon application to him
in writing by any such institution, the Superin- tendent of Banks shall
investigate the applicant and ascertain whether or not it has been authorized
to execute and accept trusts in Ohio and has safe and adequate vaults and
efficient supervision thereof for the storage and safekeeping within Ohio of
such securities. If the superintendent finds that the applicant has been so
authorized and does have such vaults and supervision thereof, he shall,
pursuant to said Section 135.18, approve the application and issue a
certificate to that effect. The original or any certified copy of that
certificate shall be conclusive evidence that the institution therein named is
qualified to act as trustee for the purposes of this section with respect to
securities other than those belonging to itself.
   J.   Notwithstanding the fact that a depository is required to pledge
eligible securities in certain amounts to secure deposits of public money, a
trustee shall have no duty or obligation to determine the eligibility, market
value, or face value of any securities deposited with the trustee by a
depository. This applies in all situations including, without limitation, a
substitution of securities. Pursuant to ORC Section 135.18, any charges or
compensation of a designated trustee for acting as such under this section
shall be paid by the depository and in no event shall be chargeable to the City
or to the Finance Director or to any officer of the City. Pursuant to said
Section 135.18, such charges or compensation shall not be a lien or charge upon
the securities deposited for safekeeping prior or superior to the rights to and
interests in such securities of the City or of the Finance Director. Pursuant
to said Section 135.18, the Finance Director and his bondsmen or surety shall
be relieved from any liability to the City or to the depository for the loss or
destruction of any securities deposited with a qualified trustee pursuant to
this section.
147.04.1 OPTIONAL PLEDGING REQUIREMENTS TO ALLOW THE POOLING OF PLEDGED
SECURITIES.
   A.   In lieu of the pledging requirement prescribed elsewhere in this
Chapter
147, an institution designated as a public depository at its option may pledge
a single pool of eligible securities to secure the repayment of all public
money deposits in the institution which are not otherwise secured pursuant to
law. At all times the total value of the securities so pledged (based on the
valuations prescribed in this chapter) must be at least equal to 105% of the
total amount of all public deposits secured by the pooled securities, including
the portion of such deposits covered by any federal deposit insurance.
   B.   Alternatively, funds of the City of Oakwood may be secured through the
use of such a pooled fund of eligible securities in the manner described in ORC
Sections 135.181 or 135.182. (Ord. 3499, passed 8/12/85; Ord. 4849, passed 12/
11/2017.)
 
147.05 INVESTMENTS OTHER THAN ACTIVE DEPOSITS OR CASH RESERVE.
   A.   It is the policy of the City to deposit and invest public funds in a
manner which will provide the maximum security with the highest investment
return while meeting the daily cash flow demands of the City and conforming to
all State and local statutes governing the investment of public funds.
   B.   All public money of the City not deposited in active deposits or kept
by the Finance Director as a cash reserve as may be prescribed by the City
Manager shall be invested by the Finance Director pursuant to this section.
Cash balances from the several different funds of the City may be pooled for
investment purposes. Unless otherwise restricted, all interest earnings will be
credited to the General Fund of the City. Investments under this section need
not be limited to money which will not be needed for a period of six months.
The City funds subject to this section are hereinafter referred to as the
"Active Portfolio".
   C.   The following investment and deposit objectives will be applied in the
management of City funds:
   The primary objective of the City's investment activities is the
preservation of capital and the protection of investment principal.
      1.   All investment and deposit transactions must be in conformance with
all applicable laws and ordinances prevailing at the time of the transaction.
      2.   The City's investment portfolio will remain sufficiently liquid to
enable the City to meet operating requirements which might be reasonably
anticipated.
      3.   In investing public funds, the City will strive to maximize the
return on the portfolio, but will avoid assuming unreasonable investment risks.
      4.   The City will diversify its investments to avoid incurring
unreasonable and avoidable risks regarding specific security types or
individual financial institutions.
      5.   Banks vary in the services they provide, their service fees,
interest rates on interim investments and the minimum compensating balances
required for demand-deposit accounts. The City's objective is to obtain good
banking services while minimizing the cost of banking services to the City.
   D.   Deposit and investment of City funds shall be made with the exercise of
that degree of judgement and care, under circumstances then prevailing, which
persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence exercise in the management of
their own affairs, not for speculation but for investment, considering the
probable safety of their capital as well as the probable income to be derived
(hereinafter referred to as "The Prudent Person Standard").
 
   The standard of prudence to be used by City officials involved in the
deposit and investment of City funds shall be The Prudent Person Standard and
shall be applied in the context of managing an overall portfolio. City
officials acting in accordance with written procedures and this policy and
exercising due diligence shall be relieved of personal responsibility for an
individual security's credit risk or market price changes, provided deviations
from expectations are reported in a timely fashion and appropriate action is
taken to control adverse developments.
   E.   Authority to manage the City's deposits and investment program is
derived from the City Charter. The Director of Finance, as Chief Financial
Officer of the City, shall be charged with the administration of this Policy.
The Director of Finance shall have the right to assign such duties and
responsibilities as he or she deems appropriate in keeping with the efficient
and prudent management of such policy. Such assignment shall include explicit
delegation of authority to persons responsible for investment transactions.
   F.   Officers and employees involved in the deposit and investment process
shall refrain from personal business activity that could conflict with proper
execution of the investment program, or which could impair their ability to
make impartial investment decisions.
   Officers and employees involved in the deposit and investment of City funds
shall disclose to the City's independent auditors any material financial
interests iri financial institutions that conduct business with the City and
further disclose any large personal financial/investment positions that could
be related to the performance of the City's portfolio.
   Officers and employees involved in the investment of City funds shall
subordinate their personal investment transactions to those of the City,
particularly with regard to the time of purchases and sales.
   G.   The Director of Finance shall have established a system of controls to
regulate the activities of subordinate officials. Such internal controls and
compliance therewith shall be subject to review during the annual audit
conducted by or on behalf of the Auditor of the State of Ohio.
   H.   To the extent possible, the City will attempt to match the term to
maturity of its investments with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless
matched to a specific cash flow requirement, the City will not directly invest
in securities maturing more than 10 years from the month of settlement. A
security trading on a "When Issued" basis may be purchased or sold if all
aspects of the security and the trade meet the requirements by this Policy and
the settlement date is no longer then 30 days after the trade date.
   As an alternative, for securities which repay principal prior to maturity,
such as certain mortgage backed securities, the City will not directly invest
in securities with an expected average life of more than 10 years. Expected
average lives must be substantiated by forecasts independent of the City and
the dealer from which the security is purchased such as the Bloomberg System.
   I.   Securities shall be purchased only through:
   Nationally chartered commercial banks organized within and under laws of one
of the United States, which are insured through the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation, and which are members of the Federal Reserve; or
      1.   Broker/dealer firms which are registered with the National
Association of Securities Dealers (NASO) and are licensed to sell securities
within the State of Ohio; and
      2.   Primary securities dealers, as designated by the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York and which qualify under Securities & Exchange Commission
Uniform Net Capital Rule 15c3-1.
      3.   The broker/dealer must meet the eligibility requirements set forth
in Section
1(1), above; and
      4.   The broker/dealer and the personnel assigned to service the City's
account must be licensed to sell securities in the State of Ohio.
      5.   The Director of Finance shall make additions to the authorized list
when the above described criteria are met.
      6.   The Director of Finance shall make deletions from the list as
directed if and as directed by ordinance of the City Commission, upon failure
of the broker/dealer to meet the foregoing investment and deposit policy
requirements, or upon request of the broker/dealer.
      7.   The Director of Finance shall make deletions from the list at his or
her discretion based on the following criteria or circumstances:
Perceived financial difficulties of the broker/dealer;
         a.   Consistent lack of competitiveness by the broker/dealer;
         b.   Lack of experience or familiarity of the account representative
in providing service to large institutional accounts; or
         c.   When deemed in the best interest of the City.
   J.   The City Manager and the Finance Director may invest in any of the
following classifications of obligations, all of which are hereby determined to
be eligible for investment:
    Bonds, notes, or other obligations of or guaranteed by the United States or
those for which the faith of the United States is pledged for the payment of
principal and interest thereon.
   Bonds, notes, debentures or other obligations or securities issued by any
federal government agency or by the export-import bank of Washington.
   Discount notes of the Federal National Mortgage Association, and bonds
issued by the homeowners' loan corporation, as defined in ORC Section 731.56.
   Bonds and notes of the State of Ohio.
   Bonds and notes of any municipal corporation (including the City) county,
township or other political subdivisions of Ohio as to which there is no
default or principal, interest or coupons.
   The Finance Director may enter into a repurchase agreement with any eligible
institution mentioned in ORC Section 135.03. The eligible institution shall
submit a Master Repurchase Agreement that has been entered into between the
City and that particular institution. Each Master Repurchased Agreement will
provide for:
Collateralization of each repurchase agreement consisting exclusively of
obligations described in sections J(1) and (2) above, the market value of which
shall not be less than 102 % of the principal amount of each repurchase
agreement plus accrued interest;
Safekeeping of the collateral by the City's third-party safekeeping agent; and
Settlement of each repurchase agreement on a delivery-versus- payment basis.
   Master repurchase agreements may provide for substitution of collateral by
the broker/dealer with the agreement of the City.
   Certificates of deposit of eligible depositories which may provide on their
face that the amount of such deposit is payable (upon written notice) at a
specified period before the date of the repayment maturity.
   Insured deposit accounts in eligible depositories paying interest at a rate
greater than the interest paid on the City's active deposits. Such investments
must be approved in writing by the City Manager and City Attorney and such
approval shall also include approval of the insurance
provided to secure and protect the City's ability to recover the principal
deposited in such deposit account.
   Banker's acceptances issued by banks ranked within the top 100 banks based
upon asset size, or issued by banks within the State of Ohio with at least two
billion dollars ($2,000,000,000).
   Commercial paper which when purchased is rated at least (P-1) by Moody's
Investor Services and A-1 by Standard and Poor's, and corporate notes and other
debt which, when purchased, is rated AAA by Moody's Investor Services and/or
Standard and Poor's.
   No-Load money market mutual funds consisting exclusively of obligations
described in paragraphs J(1) and (2) hereof.
   The State Treasury Asset Reserve of Ohio (STAR Ohio).
   K.   Securities which are specifically prohibited for investment include
interest- only, mortgage-backed securities or other securities for which there
exists a hypothetical mathematical possibility of a negative yield, excluding
default risk, if the security is held to maturity.
   
   L.   To avoid incurring unreasonable risks inherent in over-investing in
specific instruments, individual financial institutions, dealers or maturities,
the Director of Finance will diversify the active portfolio as follows:
Instrument Type                        Maximum Percent of Maximum Percent of
                                       Active Portfolio   Portfolio by Obligor
*U.S. Treasury Obligations             100                100
* Authorized U.S. Federal agency
securities and U.S. Government-        100                50
sponsored corporations and
instrumentalities
*Nonnegotiable certificates of deposit 100                25
*STAR Ohio                             100                100
* Prime Commercial Paper               25                 10
*Bankers' acceptances                  25                 10
*Commercial debt - demand notes        25                 25
*Commercial debt - notes and bonds     25                 10
 
   M.   No transaction needs to be executed when, through inadvertence or
unusual circumstances, a maturity in the active portfolio causes the percentage
of a type or category of investment to exceed the diversification limits set
forth in section (K) above.
   Any transaction executed after such infraction shall work toward returning
the active portfolio to compliance with such limits.
   N.   The City Manager and/or the Finance Director may set lower limits on
the amount of funds which can be placed in any investment category.
   O.    Competitive bidding will be utilized in order to strengthen the
investment program in terms of level and consistency of performance. When
purchasing securities, the Director of Finance will obtain the minimum number
of offerings as follows:
 
Type of Security                      Minimum Acceptable
                                      Number of Offerings
Government securities                 2
Nonnegotiable certificates of deposit 3
Bankers' acceptances                  2
Commercial Paper                      3
 
   P.   When selling any type of security, the Director of Finance will use his
or her best efforts to obtain a minimum of three (3) bids.   The right is
reserved to reject the offering of bid yielding the highest return if such
offering or bid is inconsistent with the City's investment strategy, i.e.,
maturity, risk, diversification, liquidity, etc. Price and rate quotations on
all trades shall be obtained from authorized financial institutions and dealers
within and outside the City. In the case of a purchase of sale of securities
where all other factors are considered by the Director of Finance to be equal,
placement will be made in favor of the institution situated within the City if
two or more offerings or bids are the same.
   Q.   The City Manager may order the Finance Director to sell any of the
securities, obligations, or certificates of deposit or to close any accounts
held as investments. Such order shall be in writing and shall specifically
describe the securities, obligations, certificates of deposit or accounts and
fix the date on which they are to be sold or closed. Securities, obligations,
certificates of deposit or accounts ordered to be sold or closed by the City
Manager shall be sold or closed for cash by the Director of Finance on the date
fixed in the City Manager's order at the then current market price.
   R.   The Finance Director shall have authority to sell any securities,
obligations, or certificates of deposit or close any accounts held as
investments (without the written order of the City Manager mentioned the
paragraph immediately above) for cash and for a sum not less their current
market price.
   S.   None of the Finance Director, the City Manager, the City Attorney or
the members of Council shall be held accountable or personally liable for any
loss occasioned by the sale of securities, obligations, or certificates of
deposit or by the closing of insured deposit accounts authorized pursuant to
this section at prices lower than their cost or balance.   Any loss or expense
in making such sales or closlng shall be payable as other expenses of the City.
   T.   Investments authorized by this section shall not be made at a price in
excess of the current market price. The members of Council, the City Manager,
the City Attorney, and the Finance Director shall not be personally liable for
or with respect to the purchase of securities, obligations, or certificates of
deposit or the deposit of public money in insured deposit accounts authorized
as investments pursuant to of this section. Members of Council, the City
Manager and the City Att' orney shall not be personally liable for any
unauthorized investment by the Finance Director.
   U.   If any securities, obligations or certificates of deposit purchased
under the authority of this section are issuable to a designated payee or to
the order of a designated payee, the name of the Director of Finance and the
title of his office shall be so designated. If any such securities, obligations
or certificates of deposit are registerable, as to principal or interest or
both, then such securities shall be registered in the name of the Finance
Director as such.
   V.   The Finance Director shall be responsible for the safekeeping of all
securities, obligations or certificates of deposit acquired by him under this
section. Government securities, banker's acceptances, commercial paper and
other authorized money market securities shall be settled in a delivery-versus
payment method. Book entry or physical securities shall be safekept by a third-
party safekeeping agent, correspondent money center bank customer custody
account or Depository Trust Corporation (DTC) customer custody account. Another
alternative, at the option of the City, securities may be safekept by
recognized primary government securities dealers and the securities dealer
subsidiaries of Ohio-based financial institutions if the securities are
segregated from dealer securities into customer custodial accounts. Each
delivery and safekeeping shall be evidenced by a safekeeping receipt. Any of
such securities, obligations or certificates of deposit may be deposited for
safekeeping with a qualified trustee as provided in ORC Section 135.18.
Repurchase agreements will be processed according to subsection J hereof. If
securities, obligations or certificates of deposit are not deposited with a
qualified trustee, they shall be in the custody of the Finance Director and
shall be kept by him in a safe deposit box or vault belonging to an eligible
depository. Such safe deposit box or vault shall be opened only upon a warrant
or order of the Finance Director in the presence of one or more of said Finance
Director, City Attorney or City Manager or persons duly authorized as Acting
Finance or Acting City Attorneys or Acting City Manager. The warrant or order
to open such safe deposit box or vault shall direct the deposit or removal of
such securities, obliga- tions or certificates of deposit, clipping of coupons
or other official business reason for opening the box or vault. A report of
what is placed in, removed from or other official business conducted shall be
signed, on the same day of the opening of the box or vault, by the officer
witnessing such opening and the Finance Director. Such report shall be retained
by the Finance Director.
   
   W.   Upon the expiration of the term of office of the Finance Director or in
the event of a vacancy in that office by reason of death, resignation, removal
from office, or otherwise, the Finance Director or his legal representative
shall transfer and deliver to his successor all securities, obligations and
certificates of deposit held by him. For the securities, obligations and
certificates of deposit so transferred and delivered, such Director shall be
credited with and his successor shall be charged with the amount of money
invested in such securities, obligations and certificates of deposit.
   X.   Whenever securities, obligations or certificates of deposit acquired
under this section mature and become due and payable, the Finance Director
shall present them for payment according to their tenor and shall collect the
moneys payable thereon. The money so collected shall be treated as public money
subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   Y.   The Finance Director shall maintain accounts in which he shall makeo
appropriate entries of all transactions relating to the investment of treasury
funds. He shall keep a record of the number and maturity of interest coupons on
instruments in which the City has invested.
   Z.   On and after the 1st day of March, 1982, the Finance Director shall
provide to the City Manager periodic reports in such detail and at such times
as required by the City Manager. Those reports shall show the deposits,
withdrawals and balances in the various depositories of the City and all
investments purchased, sold and held.
Amended by Ord. 4421, passed 9/14/98.
   
147.06 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   A.   The Finance Director, the City Manager, City Attorney and members of
Council and their bondsmen or sureties shall be relieved from any liability for
the loss of any public money deposited or invested pursuant to and in
compliance with this chapter, including but not limited to losses occasioned by
the failure of any depository.
   B.   Section 731.55 of the Ohio Revised Code shall be applicable to the
City, and the insurance authorized by authorized such section may be procured
by the City Manager with the costs of such insurance to be paid by the City.
147.08 TREASURY INVESTMENT ACCOUNT.
   There is hereby created, pursuant to ORC Section 731.56, a Treasury
Investment Account.
147.09 INVESTMENT OF CITY MONEY.
   Whenever there is money in the City treasury which will be required to be
used by the City for a period of six months or more, such money may, in lieu of
being deposited in a bank, be invested in obligations of the City, in bonds or
other obligations of the United States or those for the payment of principal
and interest of which the faith of the United States is pledged, or in other
obligations as enumerated in ORC 731.56. Such investments shall be authorized
and made in accordance with the provisions of ORC 731.57.
147.10 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   The Finance Director is authorized and directed to establish a fund known as
the Capital Improvement Fund to be used for the purpose of receiving and
disbursing money for the making of improvements and the purchase of equipment
having a useful life of more than one year.
147.11 BEAUTIFICATION FUND.
   A.   The Finance Director is authorized and directed to establish a fund
known as the Beautification Fund to be used for the purpose of receiving,
holding and expending municipal funds appropriated for the purpose of
beautification of public streets, parks and other public ways and places within
the City.
   B.   Within such fund the Finance Director shall establish a trust account.
Within that trust account all money received by the City as gifts for
beautification purposes shall be held in trust for the purposes of adding to
the beauty of the public streets, avenues, boulevards, grounds and other public
places of the City. All gifts of money received by the City for such purposes
shall be credited to such fund and used for no other purpose.
147.12 REFUSE FUND.
   The Finance Director is authorized and directed to establish a fund known as
the Refuse Fund to be used for the purpose of receiving, holding and expending
all municipal funds received or appropriated for the purposes of refuse
collection and refuse disposal.
147.13  HISTORICAL PRESERVATION FUND; PURPOSE AND APPROPRIATIONS.
    A.   There is hereby created a trust fund known as the Historical
Preservation Fund. The purpose of this Fund shall be to reserve, hold and
disperse moneys donated to the City for the purpose of promulgating
appreciation of (and preserving, protecting and collecting) things and objects
of historical interest to the City. All gifts of money received by the City for
such purposes shall be credited to this fund and used for no other purpose.
   B.   In the interest of promoting historical preservation, the City may
appropriate such operating money as may be deemed necessary. When such an
appropriation is made it shall be credited to this fund and used solely for
those purposes enumerated in Section
147.13.
147.14 ANNUAL   REQUEST OF TAX ADVANCES FROM THE COUNTY AUDITOR.
    The authority of the city to request each fiscal year an advance on monies
in the county treasury to the credit of the city is hereby vested in the city
manager. In making the request for a given fiscal year, the city manager shall
certify in writing to the county auditor or to his designated deputy that this
ordinance granting him the authority to request such advances remains in effect
and that he requests on behalf of the city that such advances be made. Once the
city manager has made the certification and request under this sect:on for a
given fiscal year, the city's director of finance is authorized during that
fiscal year to request and to receive for deposit to the proper fund such
monies as they accrue in the county treasury to the credit of the city. The
requirement in general law that such advances be requested by resolution
adopted for each fiscal year is hereby expressiy superseded. (Ord. 4403, passed
2/2/98).
Legislative history: Ord. 1858 passed 2/15/54; Ord. 2353 passed oj /18/65,:
Ord. 2401 passed 12/20/65; Ord. 2402 passed 12/20/65; Ord. 2405 passed 12/20/
65; Ord. 2407 passed 1/17/66; Ord. 2493 passed 7/12/67; Ord. 3277 passed 7/12/
82; Ord. 4234, passed 1/17/94; Ord. 4403, passed 2/2/98; Ord. 442.1, p2ssed 9/
14/98; Ord. 4560, passed 10/4/04- effective 11/4/04.
CHAPTER 148
Municipal Income Tax
148.01   Purpose.
148.02   Definitions.
148.03   Imposition of tax.
148.04   Effective period.
148.05   Mandatory filing of return; payment of tax.
148.06   Collection at source.
148.07   Declarations of estimated tax.
148.08   Duties and powers of the Income Tax Administrator.
148.09   Investigative powers of the Income   Tax Administrator penalty for
divulging confidential information.
148.10   Interest and penalties.
148.11   Collection of unpaid taxes and refund of overpayment.
148.12   Criminal penalties.
148.13   Board of Adjudication and Board of Tax Appeals.
148.14   Allocation of funds.
148.15   Credit for tax paid to another municipality.
148.16   Saving clause.
148.17   Collection of tax after Termination of Chapter.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Confidentiality of Info. - see ORC Ch 718.07
Power to levy income tax - see Ohio Const., Art. XII, Sec. 8.
Payroll deductions - see ORC 9.42.
Municipal income taxes - see ORC Ch. 718.
Subpoena power of Board of Tax Appeals - see ADMN.
160.02
 
 
148.01 PURPOSE.
   To provide funds for the purposes of general municipal operations,
maintenance, new equipment, extension and enlargement of municipal services and
facilities, and capital improvements of the City of Oakwood, there shall be and
is hereby levied a tax on salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation,
and on net profits as hereinafter provided.
148.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the meaning ascribed
to them in this section, except as and if the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning. The singular shall include the plural, the
masculine shall include the feminine and the neuter, and all periods set forth
shall be inclusive of the first and last mentioned date.
    ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME - A corporation's federal taxable income
before net operating losses and special deductions as determined under the
Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
   a.   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal taxable
income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the intangible
income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held for the
production of income.
   b.   Add an amount equal to five percent (5 %) of intangible income deducted
under this section, but excluding that portion of intangible income directly
related to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of property described in
section 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code.
   c.   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal
taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange or other
disposition of an asset described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal
Revenue Code.
   d.   
      (i)   Except as provided in division (d)(ii) of this section, deduct
income and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the income and
gain directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of an asset
described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (ii)   Division (d) (i) of this section does not apply to the extent the
income or gain is income or gain described in section 1245 or 1250 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
   e.   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in the
computation of federal taxable income;
   f.   In the case of a real estate investment trust and regulated investment
company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions to, or
amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and allowed as a
deduction in the computation of federal taxable income;
   g.   If the taxpayer is not a corporation, and is not an individual, the
taxpayer shall compute adjusted federal taxable income as if the taxpayer were
a corporation except:
      (i)   Guaranteed payments and other similar amounts paid or accrued to a
partner, former partner, member, or former member shall not be allowed as
deductible expenses; and
      (ii)   Amounts paid or accrued to a qualified self-employed retirement
plan with respect to an owner or owner-employee of the taxpayer, amounts paid
or accrued to or for health insurance for an owner or owner- employee, and
amounts paid or accrued to or for life insurance for an owner or owner-employee
shall not be allowed as a deduction.
   Nothing in this section shall be construed as allowing the taxpayer to add
or deduct any amount more than once or shall be construed as allowing any
taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for purposes of federal self-
employment tax.
   ASSOCIATION - A partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company,
trust, estate, or any other form of unincorporated enterprise or pass-through
entity owned by two or more persons.
   BOARD OF ADJUDICATION - The board created by and constituted as provided in
section
148.13 of this chapter.
   BOARD OF TAX APPEALS - The board created by and constituted as provided in
section 
148.13 of this chapter.
   BUSINESS - An enterprise, profession, undertaking or other activity of any
nature conducted for profit or ordinarily conducted for profit, whether by an
individual, partnership, association, corporation or any other entity. The term
"business" shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the sale, rental,
lease, license, management, or other use of real and/or tangible personal
property.
   COMPENSATION - Any remuneration for work done or services provided and shall
include, but shall not be limited to, salaries, wages, including vacation pay
and sick pay, commissions, bonuses, tips, severance pay, supplemental
unemployment pay, or any other remuneration for work done or services provided,
that is paid to or constructively received by the recipient, and whether paid
in cash or in property. That portion of gross compensation which may be
deferred under a federally recognized plan is compensation for purposes of this
chapter and is subject to taxation and to withholding under the provisions of
this chapter.
   CORPORATION - a corporation or joint stock assocIatIon organized under the
laws of the United States, the State of Ohio, or any other state, territory, or
foreign country or dependency.
   DAY - A calendar day or any portion thereof.
   DOMICILE - With respect to any individual, a place of abode to which,
whenever away therefrom, the individual intends to return.
   EMPLOYEE - One who works for wages, salary, commission or other type of
compensation in the service of an employer.
    EMPLOYER - An individual, partnership, assocIatIon, corporation,
governmental body, unit, agency, or any other entity, whether or not organized
for profit, having a place of business or doing business within the City of
Oakwood and who or which employs one or more persons on a salary, wage,
commission, or other compensation basis.
   FISCAL YEAR - An accounting period of twelve months or less ending on any
day other than December 31.
   FORM 2106 - Internal Revenue Service Form 2106 filed by a taxpayer pursuant
to the Internal Revenue Code. (generally used to report employee business
expenses)
   GENERIC FORM - An electronic or paper form designed for reporting estimated
municipal income taxes and annual municipal income tax liability or for filing
a refund claim that is not prescribed by a particular municipal corporation for
the reporting of that municipal corporation's tax on income. The generic form,
once completed and filed, must contain all of the information required to be
submitted with the municipality's prescribed returns, reports, or documents.
Such generic form shall become the actual form it is intended to replace,
subject to any and all rules and regulations set forth in the Ohio Revised Code
andior Municipal Ordinances.
   GOOD CAUSE - Includes, but is not limited to, the avoidance of hardship and
the efficient administration of the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter.
   GROSS RECEIPTS - The total income of a taxpayer from whatever source
derived.
   INCOME FROM A PASS-THROUGH ENTITY - Partnership income of partners,
membership interests of members of a limited liability company, or other
distributive or proportionate ownership shares of income from other pass-
through entities.
   INCOME TAX - The Income Tax Administrator of the City of Oakwood, Ohio, aka
Tax Administrator, aka Administrator, aka Tax Director, aka Superintendent, or
the person executing the duties of that position. The person appointed to
administer the Oakwood Income Tax Ordinance and to direct the operation of the
Oakwood Income Tax Department.
   INDIVIDUAL - A natural person.
   INTANGIBLE INCOME - Income of any of the following types: income yield,
interest, capital gains, dividends, or other income arising from the ownership,
sale, exchange, or other disposition of intangible property including, but not
limited to, investments, deposits, money, or credits as those terms are defined
in Chapter 5701 of the Ohio Revised Code, and patents, copyrights, trademarks,
trade names, investments in real estate investment trusts, investments in
regulated investment companies, and appreciation on deferred compensation.
"Intangible income" does not include prizes, awards, or other income associated
with any lottery winnings or other similar games of chance.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE -   The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat. 2085,
26 U.S.C. 1, as amended.
   INTERNET - The international computer network of both federal and nonfederal
interoperable packet-switched data networks, including the graphical sub
network known as the World Wide Web.
   LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY - A limited liability company formed under Chapter
1705 of the Ohio Revised Code or under the analogous laws of another state.
   NET OPERATING LOSS (NOL) - The net loss from all operations and/or the
complete or partial sale or disposition of a business or the assets thereof,
after provision for all ordinary and necessary expenses, paid or accrued in
accordance with the accounting method used by the taxpayer for federal income
tax purposes, without deduction of taxes imposed by this chapter, federal,
state, or other taxes based on income, and, in the case of an association,
without deduction of compensation to owners, and otherwise adjusted to the
requirements of this chapter. Net operating losses may not be carried backward
or forward to offset taxable income in past or future years.
   NET PROFITS - The "net profit" for a taxpayer other than an individual means
adjusted federal taxable income and "net profit" for a taxpayer who is an
individual means the individual's profit, other than amounts described in
section
148.03, required to be reported on Schedule C, Schedule E or Schedule F of
federal tax returns.
   NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN - A compensation plan described in
section 3121(v)(2) (C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
   NON-RESIDENT - Any individual who is not domiciled in the City of Oakwood,
as defined in this Chapter 148.
   NON-RESIDENT UNINCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY - An unincorporated business
entity not having an office or place of business within the City of Oakwood.
   OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY - The online computer network system initially created
by the Ohio Department of Administrative Services under section 125.30 of the
Revised Code, that allows private businesses to electronically file business
reply forms with state agencies and includes any successor electronic filing
and payment system.
   OTHER ACTIVITY - Any undertaking, not otherwise specifically defined herein,
which is normally entered into for profit or gain, including but not limited to
lottery, contest and gambling winnings, as well as prizes and awards; rental of
real and personal property and any business conducted by a trust or
guardianship estate.
   OWNER - A sole-proprietor, partner of a partnership, a member of a limited
liability company, or other person with an ownership interest in a pass-through
entity.
   OWNER'S PROPORTIONATE SHARE - With respect to each owner of a pass- through
entity, the ratio of (a) the owner's income from the pass-through entity that
is subject to taxation by the municipal corporation, to (b) the total income
from that entity of all owners whose income from the entity is subject to
taxation by that municipal corporation.
   PASS-THROUGH ENTITY - A partnership, limited liability company, or any other
class of entity the income or profits from which are given pass-through
treatment under the Internal Revenue Code.
   PERSON - Every natural person, fiduciary, association, corporation,
governmental entity and any other entity. Whenever used in any section
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the term "person" includes a shareholder,
officer or employee of a corporation, a trustee of a trust, and a member,
owner, officer or employee of an association, who as such shareholder, trustee,
owner, officer, employee or member is under a duty to perform the act in
respect of which the violation occurs.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS - Any office (other than that of a mere statutory agent
appointed to receive service of process), factory, warehouse or other space
which is occupied and used by the taxpayer in carrying on any business activity
individually or through one or more of his employees or agents.
   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS - In the case of an employer having
headquarters' activities at a place of business within a taxing municipality,
the place of business is in the municipality where the headquarters is
situated. In the case of an employer not having its headquarters' activities at
a place of business within a taxing municipality, the term means the largest
place of business located in a taxing municipality.
   QUALIFIED PLAN - A retirement plan satisfying the requirements under section
401 of the Internal Revenue Code as amended.
   QUALIFYING WAGES - Wages, as defined in section 3121(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code, without regard to any wage limitations, adjusted in accordance
with section 718.03(A) of the Ohio Revised Code. Qualifying wages include
compensation arising from the sale, exchange, or other disposition of a stock
option, the exercise of a stock option, and the sale, exchange, or other
disposition of stock purchased under a stock option; as well as the
compensation attributable to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan or
program described in section 3121 (v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
   RENTAL UNIT - Any physical space, including but not limited to any office,
factory, retail store, warehouse, storage facility, residential dwelling, or
other space or property, which is rented or leased to any person.
   RESIDENT - An Individual domiciled in the City of Oakwood. Maintaining a
place of abode within the City of Oakwood for a total of 183 days or more
within any twelve month period shall be deemed presumptive proof of residency.
   RESIDENT UNINCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY - An unincorporated business entity
having a place of business within the City of Oakwood.
   RETURN -   Any original or amended City income tax return.
   RETURN PREPARER - Any person other than a taxpayer that is authorized by a
taxpayer to complete or file an income tax return, report, or other document
for or on behalf of the taxpayer. However, a taxpayer may complete and/or file
his own tax return.
   S CORPORATION - A corporation which has made an election under subchapter S
of Chapter,.1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its taxable year.
An S Corporation shall be taxed for municipal purposes in the same manner as a
C corporation; distributions to shareholders/owners are considered non-taxable,
and S corporation losses are not deductible by individual shareholders/owners.
   SCHEDULE C - Internal Revenue Service Schedule C filed .by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code. (Generally used to report self-
employment income or loss)
   SCHEDULE E - Internal Revenue Service Schedule E filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code. (Generally used to report rental income
or loss and distributive share of income or loss to owners/partners)
   SCHEDULE F - Internal Revenue Service Schedule F filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code. (Generally used to report farm income or
loss)
   SCHEDULE K-1 - Internal Revenue Service Schedule K-1 filed by a pass-through
entity pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code. (Generally used to report owner's
/ partner's distributive share of partnership income or loss)
   TAXABLE INCOME - Qualifying wages paid by an employer or employers,
compensation for personal services, other income defined by statute as taxable,
including lottery winnings, gambling proceeds, prizes, awards, .and proceeds
from contests and other games of chance; the net profit of a sole
proprietorship as required to be reported by the taxpayer on schedule C or F;
the net profit of an individual from rental and/or other activity required to
be reported on schedule E; and adjusted federal taxable income from the
operation of a business, adjusted in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter.
   TAXABLE YEAR - The corresponding tax reporting period as prescribed for the
taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
   TAXPAYER - A person, whether an individual, partnership, association,
corporation or other entity, required by this chapter to file a return or pay
or withhold a tax. "Taxpayer" does not include any person that is a disregarded
entity for federal income tax purposes, but "taxpayer" includes any other
person who owns the disregarded entity.
148.03 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   A.   An annual tax for the purposes specified in Section
148.01  shall be imposed for the period beginning May 1, 1968 at the rate of
one percent per annum upon the items described below in this section.
   B.   Beginning June 1, 1974 an additional annual tax for the purpose cf
providing funds for essential municipa! service and operation, capital
improvement and for payment of debt shall be imposed in the same manner at the
rate of one-half percent per annum upon items described below in this section.
   C.   Beginning April 1, 1975 an additional annual tax for the same purpose
described in paragraph B above shall be imposed in the same manner at the rate
of one- half percent per annum.
   D.   Beginning October 1, 1984 an additionai annual tax for the same purpose
c!escribed in paragraph B above shall be imposed in the same manner at the rate
of one- half percent per annum.
   E.   The various tax rates referred to above shall be imposed on the
following items:
      1.   On all qualifying wages, commissions, other compensation, and other
taxable income earned or received by residents, regardless of whether such
income is earned within or outside the city limits of Oakwood.
      2.   On all qualifying wages, commissions, other compensation, and other
taxable income earned or received by non-residents for work done, or services
performed or rendered in the City of Oakwood.
      3.   a.    Residents: On the portion attributable to the City of Oakwood
of the net profits earned and accrued or received by all resident associations,
unincorporated businesses, pass- through entities, and other resident entities,
derived from sales made, work done, services performed or rendered, and
business or other activities conducted in the City of Oakwood.
         b.    Residents: On the portion of the distributive share of net
profits earned and accrued or received by a resident partner or owner of a
resident unincorporated business entity or pass-through entity not attributable
to the City of Oakwood and not levied against such unincorporated entity or
pass- through entity.
      4.   a.    Non-residents: On the portion attributable to the City of
Oakwood of the net profits earned and accrued or received by all non-resident
associations, unincorporated businesses, pass-through entities and other non-
resident unincorporated entities, derived from sales made, work done, services
performed or rendered, and business or other activities conducted in the City
of Oakwood, whether or not such association or other unincorporated business
entity has an office or place of business in the City of Oakwood.
         b.   Resident partner or owner of non-resident, unincorporated
business: On the portion of the distributive share of the net profits earned
and accrued or received by a resident partner or resident owner of a non-
resident association or unincorporated business or pass-through entity which
portion is not attributable to the City of Oakwood and not levied against such
unincorporated business or pass-through entity.
      5.   Corporations: On the portion attributable to the City of Oakwood of
the net profit of corporations for sales made, work done, services performed or
rendered and business or other activities conducted in the City of Oakwood,
whether or not the corporations have an office or place of business in the City
of Oakwood using as a base the taxpayer's adjusted federal taxable income. This
section does not apply to any taxpayer required to file a return under section
5745.03 of the Revised Code (concerning Electric Light Companies).
      6.   Net profit from business or rental activity required to be reported
on schedule C or schedule E and attributable to the sale, rental and/or
management of real property located within the boundaries of Oakwood shall be
considered as having a taxable situs in the City of Oakwood. Accordingly, such
compensation shall be taxable to Oakwood.
   F.   Allocation of Profit: Where a person, association or corporation (other
than a taxpayer required to file a return under section 5745.03 of the Revised
Code) conducts a business both within and without the City, the portion of the
entire net profit of such business to be allocated as having been earned in or
otherwise attributable to the City may be determined from the books and records
of such business, if such business maintains bona fide records which disclose
with reasonable accuracy what portion of its net profit is attributable to that
part of its activities conducted within the City. In the absence of such
records, the portion of the entire net profits of a taxpayer to be allocated as
having been derived from within the City of Oakwood shall be determined as
follows:
      1.   Multiply the entire net profits by a business allocation percentage
to be the average ratio of:
         a.   The average original cost of the real and tangible personal
property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business in the City of Oakwood
during the taxable period in proportion to the average original cost of all the
real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the
business during the same period, wherever situated.
         b.   As used in the preceding paragraph, reai property shall include
that rented or leased by the taxpayer and the value of such property shall be
determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon by 8.
         c.   Wages, salaries, and other compensation paid or accrued during
the taxable period to persons employed in the busi- ness for services performed
in the City of Oakwood in proportion to wages, salaries, and other compensation
paid or accrued during the same period to persons employed in the business,
wherever their services are performed.
         d.   Gross receipts of the business from sales made and services
performed during the taxable period in the City of Oakwood to gross receipts of
the business during the same period from sales and services, wherever made or
performed.
         e.   If the foregoing apportionment formula does not produce an
equitable result, another basis may, under uniform regulations, be substituted
so as to produce such result.
         f.   A factor is excluded when it does not exist anywhere, that is,
when the denominator is zero (0).
      2.   As used above this section, "sales made in the City of Oakwood"
means:
          a.   All sales of tangible personal property delivered to an address
within the City of Oakwood (regardless of where title passes) if shipped or
delivered from a stock of goods located within the City.
         b.   All sales of tangible personal property delivered within the City
of Oakwood (regardless of where title passes and even though transported from a
point outside the City) if the taxpayer is regularly engaged through its own
employees in the solicitation or promotion of sales within the City and the
sales result from such solicitation or promotion.
         c.   All sales of tangible personal property which. is shipped from a
place within the City of Oakwood to purchasers outside the City (regardless of
where title passes) if the taxpayer is not, through its own employees,
regularly engaged in the solicita- tion or promotion of sales at the place
where delivery is made.
         d.   All sales and leases of real estate which is located within the
boundaries of the City of Oakwood.
   G.   The portion of a taxpayer's net business operating loss allocable to
the City may be applied against the portion of such taxpayer's net profit
allocable to the City for the taxable year. Applicable schedules must all be
completed.
      1.   Losses from business activities reportable on federal schedule C, E
and/or F may not be used to offset qualifying wages, commissions or other
compensation earned or received by residents or nonresidents of the city.
   H.   A person who receives wages or compensation taxable under this chapter
and who pays business expenses without reimbursement from his employer or
association, shall be entitled to a deduction for such expenses, to the same
extent that such expenses qualify as business expense deductions for federal
purposes, and provided that such expenses are determined by the Tax
Administrator to be ordinary, necessary and incurred in earning the related
income subject to tax under this chapter, but the deduction shall not exceed
the amount of income to which such expenses are directly attributable. The
amount allowed as a deduction for unreimbursed, ordinary and necessary,
employee business expenses shall be limited to that amount which exceeds 2% of
the employee's gross income, as computed on Schedule A of the taxpayer's
federal tax return.
   I.   For the purpose of this section, the taxable base shall be determined
in accordance with federal tax interpretations, when applicable, and with the
accounting method used by the taxpayer for federal income taxes adjusted to the
requirements of this chapter.
   J.   Consolidated returns.
      1.   Filing of consolidated returns may be permitted or required in
accor- dance with rules and regulations prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
      2.   A consolidated City return may be filed with respect to a taxable
year by a group of corporations which are affiliated through stock ownership if
that affiliated group filed a consolidated return for federal income tax
purposes pursuant to Section 1501 of the Internal Revenue Code for the same
taxable year. A consolidated City return must include all companies that are
affiliated. If the Tax Administrator finds net profits are not properly
allocated to the City by reason of transactions with stockholders . or with
other corporations related by stock ownership, by interlocking directorates, or
by transactions with such division, branch, factory, office, laboratory or
activity or by some other method, he shall make such allocation as he deems
appropriate to produce a fair and proper allocation of net profits to the City.
   K.    Exceptions. The tax provided for herein shall not be levied upon:
      1.   The military pay or allowances of members of the Armed Forces of the
United States and of their reserve components, in.eluding the Ohio National
Guard;
      2.   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific, literary
or educational institutions to the extent that such income is derived from tax-
exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property or tax-exempt
activities;
      3.   Poor relief, unemployment insurance benefits, qualifying old age
pensions or similar payments including disability benefits received from local,
state or federal governments or charitable, religious or educational
organizations;
      4.   Proceeds of insurance paid by reason of the death of the insuredL
qualifying pensions, disability benefits, annuities or gratuities not in the
nature of compensation for services rendered, from whatever source derived;
      5.   Receipts from seasonal or casual entertainment, amusements, sports
events and health and welfare activities when any such are conducted by bona
fide charitable, religious or educational organizations and associations;
      6.   Personal earnings of all persons under 18 years of age.
      7.   Gains from involuntary conversion, cancellation of indebtedness,
interest on federal obligations, items of income already taxed by the State of
Ohio which the City of Oakwood is specifically prohibited from taxing, and
income of a decedent's estate during the period of administration (except such
income from the operation of a busi- ness);
      8.   Intangible income;
      9.   Compensation paid under section 3501.28 or 3501.36 of the Revised
Code to a person serving as a precinct election official, to the extent that
such compensation does not exceed one thousand dollars annually. Such
compensation in excess of one thousand dollars shall be taxable, but the payer
of such compensation shall not be required to withhold any tax from that
compensation;
      10.   Compensation paid to an employee of a transit authority, regional
transit authority, or regional transit commission created under Chapter 306 of
the Revised Code for operating a transit bus or other motor vehicle for the
authority or commission in or through the municipal corporation, unless the bus
or vehicle is operated on a regularly scheduled route, the operator is subject
to such a tax by reason of residence or domicile in the City of Oakwood, or the
headquarters of the authority or commission is located within the City of
Oakwood;
      11.   The income of a public utility, when that utility is subject to the
tax levied under section 5727.24 or 5727.30 of the Revised Code, except that
the income of an electric company, combined company, and telephone company, as
defined in section 5727.01 of the Revised Code shall be taxed;
      12.   An S corporation shareholder's distributive share of net profits of
the S corporation;
      13.   Salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation and net profits
the taxation of which is prohibited by the United States Constitution or any
act of Congress limiting the power of the states or their political
subdivisions to impose net income taxes on income derived from interstate
commerce, including all items excluded from federal gross income pursuant to
section 107 of the Internal Revenue Code.
      14.   Salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation and net
profits, the taxation of which is prohibited by the Constitution of the State
of Ohio or any act of the Ohio General Assembly limiting the power of the City
of Oakwood to impose net income taxes.
      15.   The compensation of an individual if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The individual does not reside in that municipal corporation.
         (b)   The compensation is paid for personal services performed by the
individual in that municipal corporation on twelve or fewer days in the
calendar year.
         (c)   In the case of an individual who is an employee, the principal
place of business of the individual's employer is located outside that
municipal corporation and the individual pays tax on compensation described in
Division (B) of this section to the municipal corporation, if any, in which the
employer's principal place of business is located, and no portion of that tax
is refunded to the individual.
         (d)   The individual is not a professional entertainer or professional
athlete, the promoter of a professional entertainment or sports event, or an
employee of such promoter.
148.04 EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   The various taxes referred to in Section
148.03  above shall be levied, collected and paid with respect to the wages,
commissions and other compensation received during the periods beginning on the
dates set forth below. Similarly these taxes shall be levied vvith respect to
the net profits of business, professions or other activities earned and accrued
or received during the period beginning on the following dates:
   May 1, 1968 for the one percent tax in paragraph A of section
148.03; 
   June 1, 1974 for the one-half percent tax in paragraph B of that section;
   April 1, 1975 for the one-half percent tax in paragraph C of that section;
   October 1, 1984 for the one-half percent tax in paragraph D of that section.
148.05 MANDATORY FILING OF RETURN; PAYMENT OF TAX.
   A.   Each person who engages in business, or other activity or whose
qualifying wages, commissions or other compensation is subject to the tax
imposed by this chapter shall make and file a return on or before April 15 of
each year, whether or not any tax is due from such person. In addition, every
resident shall make and file a return in a similar manner, vvhether or not a
tax is due from such resident, excepting those residents under 18 years of age
and excepting residents who are retired and who have no income subject to this
tax and have so notified the superintendent in writing.
   B.   When the return is made for a fiscal year or other period different
from the calendar year, the return shall be filed on or before the fifteenth
(15th) day of the fourth (4th) month following the end of such fiscal year or
period. The Tax Administrator is hereby authorized to provide by regulation
that the return of an employer or employers showing the amount of Municipal tax
deducted by said employer or employers from the qualifying wages, commissions,
other compensation and other taxable income of an employee, and paid by the
employer or employers to the Tax Administrator may be accepted as the return
required of such employee whose sole income subject to tax under this Tax Code
is such qualifying wages, commissions, other compensation and other taxable
income.
   C.   The return shall be filed with the Tax Administrator on a form
prescribed and furnished by or obtainable upon request from the Tax
Administrator or upon a generic form which contains all of the following
information and which generic form otherwise complies with all of the City's
rules and ordinances governing the filing of returns, reports, and documents:
      1.    The aggregate amounts of qualifying wages, commissions and other
compensation received by him and gross income from business, profession or
other activity earned during the preceding year..o and subject to said tax,
less allowable expenses incurred in the acquisi- tion of such gross income;
      2.   The amount of the tax imposed by this chapter on such earnings and
profits; and
      3.   Such other pertinent statements, information returns or other
information as the Tax Administrator may require.
   D.   Notwithstanding subsection
148.05( C), for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2005, a taxpayer
subject to Oakwood's tax on the net profit from a business or profession may
file its municipal income tax return or estimated municipal tax return, and may
make payment of amounts due on such returns, by using the Ohio business
Gateway.
   E.   Except as set forth in subsection (D), the taxpayer making a return
shall, at the time of the filing thereof, pay to the City through the Tax
Administrator the amount of taxes shown as due thereon. Credit shall be allowed
for:
      1.   Any portion of the tax so due which was withheld at the source
pursuant to the provisions of Section
148.06 of this chapter;
      2.   Any portion of said tax which was paid in advance by the taxpayer
pursuant to the provisions of Section
148.07 of this chapter; and
       3.   Tax paid to another municipality as provided by Section
148.15 of this chapter.
   F.   Subject to the limitations contained in Section
148.11 of this chapter, any taxpayer who has overpaid the amount of tax to
which the City is entitled may have part or all of such overpayment applied
against any subsequent liability hereunder or, at his election indicated on the
return, such overpayment (or part thereof) shall be refunded.
   G.   Amended returns.
      1.   Where necessary, an amended return must be filed in order to report
additional income and any additional tax due or to claim a refund of tax
overpaid, subject to the requirements and/or limitations contained in Section
148.11. Such amended returns shall be on a form meeting original filing
requirements, clearly marked AMENDED. A taxpayer may not change the method of
accounting or apportionment of net profits after the due date for filing the
original return without the approval of the Tax Administrator.
      2.   Notwithstanding the limitations contained in Section
148.11, within three months from the final determination of any federal tax
liability affecting the taxpayer's City of Oakwood tax liability, such taxpayer
shall make and file an amended City of Oakwood return showing income subject to
the City of Oakwood tax based upon such final determination of federal tax
liability and shall pay any additional tax shown due thereon or make claim for
refund of any overpayment.
   H.   Information returns, schedules and statements required to support tax
returns which are incomplete without such information shall be filed within the
time limits set forth for the filing of the tax returns. Failure to do so shall
be deemed to be a violation of this section, but the taxpayer shall have ten
days after notification by the Tax Administrator to file such items.
148.06 COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
   A.   Each employer shall at the time of the payment of any qualifying wages,
withhold the taxes levied by Section 
148.03 of this chapter from the qualifying wages of his employees who are
subject to the provisions of this chapter. In making such withholding, the
employer shall compute the tax to the nearest full cent so that mills of five
or more shall be increased to the next full cent and mills less than five shall
be dropped. No person shall be entitled to a refund merely because such
rounding off of the tax results in an apparent overpayment based on his total
earnings. Each employer shall, on or before the last day of each month, make a
return and pay to the Tax Administrator, the tax withheld during the preceding
month. The Tax Administrator shall
have authority, however, to approve the filing of returns and payments of the
tax withheld on a quarterly basis. In such case, the employer shall, on or
before the last day of each month following the calendar quarters ending March
31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, make a return and pay to the city
the tax withheld during the preceding calendar quarter. Such approval for
quarterly filings and payments may be withdrawn by the Tax Administrator when
it is to the best interest of the City of Oakwood to do so. The Tax
Administrator shall provide, by regulation the manner in which such approval is
to be granted or withdrawn.
   B.   The employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to be
withheld, whether or not such tax has in fact been withheld. An employee is not
relieved from liability for a tax by the failure of the employer to withhold
the tax as required by a municipal corporation or by the employer's exemption
from the requirement to withhold the tax.
   C.   The failure of an employer to remit to Oakwood the tax withheld
relieves the employee from liability for that tax unless the employee colluded
with the employer in connection .with the failure to remit the tax withheld.
   D.   Such employer shall be deemed to hold withheld taxes as a Trustee for
the benefit of the City of Oakwood; and any such withheld taxes shall, until
paid to the City, be deemed to be a trust fund in the hands of the employer.
   E.   No person shall be required to withhold the tax on the wages or other
compensation paid any domestic servant employed by him exclusively in or about
such person's residence, even though that residence is in the City of Oakwood;
but every such domestic servant employee shall be subject to all the
requirements of this chapter.
   F.   On or before January 31 of each year, each employer shall file a
withhold- ing return on a form prescribed by and obtainable upon request from
the Tax Administrator setting forth the names and addresses of all employees
from whose compensation the tax was withheld during the preceding calendar year
and the amount of taxes withheld and such other information as may be required
by the rules and regulations adopted by the Tax Administrator. If the total
City Income Tax withheld from any employee includes tax withheld for another
municipality, the amount of such tax and the name of the municipality for which
it was withheld shall be separately shown on the annual withholding return.
   G.   Any employer may report the amount of municipal income tax withheld
from qualifying wages paid or on or after January 1, 2007, and may make
remittance of such amounts by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   H.   Any person who is required herein to withhold City Income Tax from
compensation shall pay all such City Income tax to the City in accordance with
the provisions of this Chapter. In the event the City Income Tax required to be
withheld from the compensation of employees are not so withheld or are not paid
to the City in accordance with the provIsIons of this section, any person,
including but not limited to all shareholders, officers, owners, managers,
employees, and trustees, having control or supervision of or charged with the
responsibility of filing the withholding return and making payment of City
Income tax withheld are jointly and severally personally liable for the City
Income Tax withheld, not returned, or not paid to the City as well as any
related interest and penalties, and are also criminally liable under the
provisions of Section
148.12. The liquidation, dissolution, termination, death, or bankruptcy of any
person does not discharge such person's liability for a failure of such person
to file withholding returns or withhold or pay City Income Taxes required to be
withheld.
 
   I.   Any person required by the Internal Revenue Code to report, on an
Internal Revenue Service Form 1099, payments made by such person to any
individual not treated by such person as an employee for services performed by
such individual shall also report such payment to the City where such services
or any portion thereof were performed in the City, or where such payee is a
resident of the City. Such report shall be made on a form prescribed by the Tax
Administrator, which form shall include the name, address, federal taxpayer
identification number, the amount of the payments made to each payee, and the
percentage of such payments attributable to the City. Federal forms 1099 may be
submitted in lieu of such report. Such return or forms shall be filed annually
on or before February 28 of each year.
 
148.07 DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED TAX.
   A.   Every person who anticipates the receipt of any taxable income which is
not subJect to Section
148.06 of this chapter, or who engages in any business or other activity
subject to the tax imposed by Section
148.03, shall file a declaration setting forth such person's estimated taxable
income together with the estimated tax due thereon, if any.
 
   B.   The filing date for a declaration of estimated income and estimated tax
shall be as follows:
      1.   On or before April 15 of each year, or on or before the fifteenth
day of the fourth month after the date the taxpayer becomes subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Any taxpayer reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a
declaration on the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the beginning of
each fiscal year or period.
 
   C.   Form for (and amendment of) estimated tax deductions.
      1.   Such declaration shall be filed upon a form furnished by or obtain-
able upon request from the Tax Administrator, which form or forms shall contain
a statement that the figures used in making such declaration are the fitiures
used in making the declaration of the estimate of the taxpayer's federal income
tax liability, adjusted to report that income which is taxable under the
provisions of this chapter. Credit shall be taken for the City of Oakwood tax
to be withheld. In accordance with the provisions of Section
148.15, credit may be taken for tax to be paid to or to be withheld and
remitted to another taxing municipality.
      2.   The original declaration (or any subsequent amendment thereof) may
be amended at any time.
      3.   An amended declaration must be filed on or before January 31 of the
following year or, in the case of a taxpayer on a fiscal year, on or before the
date fixed by regulation of the Tax Administrator if it appears that the
original declaration made for such taxable year underestimated the taxpayer's
income by ten percent or more. At such time a payment shall be made which,
together with prior payments, is sufficient to pay the taxpayer's entire
estimated liability. If upon the filing of the return required by Section
148.05, it appears that the taxpayer did not pay ninety percent of his tax
liability as shown on said return on or before January 31 (or the date fixed by
regulations, whichever is applicable), the difference between ninety percent of
the taxpayer's tax liability ang the amount of estimated tax actually so paid
shall be subject .fo the interest and penalty provisions of Section
148.10 of this chapter.
 
   D.   Payment of estimated tax amounts shall be made as follows:
      1.   At least one fourth of the estimated annual tax, less credit, shall
be paid when the declaration is to be filed; and at least a similar amount
shall be paid on or before the last day of the seventh, tenth and thirteenth
months after the beginning of the taxable year. If an amended declaration of
estimated tax has been filed, the unpaid balance shown due thereon shall be
paid in equal installments on or before the remaining payment dates.
      2.   The last quarterly payment of estimated tax need not be made if the
taxpayer files his final return and pays the balance of the tax due thereon
within forty five days following the end of the taxable year.
 
148.08  DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   A.   It shall be the duty of the Tax Administrator to receive tax payments
from the taxpayers, to keep an accurate record thereof, and to report daily all
money so received. In addition, the Tax Administrator shall enforce payment of
all taxes owed to the City and shall keep accurate records for a minimum of
five years showing the amount due from each taxpayer required to file a
declaration and/or to rnake any return, including taxes withheld, and showing
the dates and amounts of payments thereof.
   B.   The Tax Administrator is hereby charged with enforcement of the
provIsIons of this chapter, and is hereby empowered, subject to the approval of
the Board of Adjudication, to adopt and promulgate and to enforce rules and
regulations relating to any matter or thing pertaining to the collection of
taxes and administration, interpretation, application and enforcement of this
chapter, including provisions for the reexamination and correction of returns.
   C.   If the Tax Administrator determines that a taxpayer or employer has
failed to file a return or has filed a return which does not show the proper
amount of tax due, the Tax Administrator may, subject to Subparagraph C 1 c of
this Section
148.08, assess the amount of tax appearing to be due, together with interest
and penalties thereon, if any, in the following manner:
      1.   General provisions as to assessment, interest and penalties and
other decisions of the Tax Administrator:
         a.   Proposed assessments. If the Tax Administrator determines that a
taxpayer has a tax !iabi!ity for which he has filed no return, has filed an
incorrect return or has failed to pay the full amount of tax due, the Tax
Administrator rnay cause the issuance of a proposed assessment showing the
amount of tax due together with any penalty and interest that may have accrued
thereon.
            i.   Such proposed assessment shall be ser,;ed upon the taxpayer in
person or by mailing to his last known address together with a notice setting
forth the taxpayer's right to appeal the assessment and the manner in which to
appeal. Proof of mailing furnished by the U.S. Post Office shall be presumptive
proof of receipt thereof bv the addressee.
            ii.   A taxpayer may, within thirtv days after the date the
proposed assessment was served or mailed, file a written protest with the Tax
Administrator, or the taxpayer may proceed as under subsection
 148.05(b)(i) below. If no protest is filed to a proposed assessment, it shall
become final thirty days after being served unless the taxpayer has elected to
proceed under subsection
148.08(b)(i). If a protest is filed, within thirty days after receipt of the
protest, the Tax Administrator shall give the protestant an opportunity to be
heard, and the Tax Administrator may extend the date of hearing for good cause
shown. Said hearing shall be a meeting with the Tax Administrator at which the
taxpayer may present records and facts in support of his or her position. Based
on the facts and documentation gathered at the hearing, the Tax Administrator
shall withdraw, adjust or reaffirm the assessment by issuance of a final
assessment.
         b.   After a proposed assessment becomes final, notice of such final
assessment may be issued and shall be served in the same manner as a proposed
assessment. Said notice shall inform the taxpayer of his/her right to appeal
the decision and of the manner in which the taxpayer may appeal the decision.
            i.   A taxpayer who is aggrieved by a decision by the tax
administrator and who has filed with the City the required returns or other
documents pertaining to the municipal income tax obligation at issue in the
decision shall have thirty days after the date the Tax Administrator issued the
final assessment or other decision aggrieving the taxpayer to file written
notice of appeal with the Board of Tax Appeals. Such written notice of appeal
shall state why the decision should be deemed incorrect or unlawful and shall
be filed in a sealed envelope plainly marked "Appeal to Board of Tax Appeals"
and mailed or delivered to the Tax Administrator who shall, open the appeal
envelope and deliver such appeal to the Chairman of the Board of Tax Appeals
or, if the Chairman is not available, to the Vice-Chairman of that board.
            ii.   Within thirty days of receipt of the "Appeal to Board of Tax
Appeals", the Tax Administrator shall also deliver to the board in a similar
manner a certified transcript of all actions taken with respect to said final
assessment. Such transcript shall be open to inspection by the appellant and
his/her counsel.
            iii.   Any taxpayer against whom a final assessment has been issued
or who has otherwise been aggrieved by a decision of the Tax Administrator and
who has properly filed a notice of appeal shall be granted a hearing by the
Board of Tax Appeals within forty-five days after the Board has received the
request, unless the taxpayer waives a hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive
the hearing, the taxpayer may appear before the Board. The Tax Administrator
shall be deemed a party to the appeal. At such hearing the appellant and the
Tax Administrator shall be given opportunity to present evidence relating to
the said final assessment. The appellant shall proceed first and shall have the
burden of proof.
            iv.   The Board of Tax Appeals shall issue a decision to affirm,
reverse or modify the final assessment within ninety days after the conclusion
of the hearing and shall furnish a copy of its decision by ordinary mail to all
of the parties to the appeal within fifteen days after issuance of its
decision.
         c.   A taxpayer aggrieved by a decision shall have sixty (60) days
after notification of the municipal Board of Tax Appeals' decision to file a
notice of appeal with the State Board of Tax Appeals or court of common pleas
as provided in Ohio Revised Code section 5717.011. A copy of such notice of
appeal shall be served on the Tax Administrator by hand delivery or mail on the
date of filing. After sixty (60) days have elapsed without such appeal, the
decision of the Municipal Board shall be deemed final, and any such resulting
balance or required documentation shall be submitted within fifteen (15) days
from expiration of the sixty (60) day period, including any related charges of
penalty and/or interest.
         d.   When any taxpayer subject to the provisions of this chapter has
filed a return indicating the amount of tax due and has failed to pay said tax
to the Tax Administrator as required by this Chapter, the Tax Administrator
need not issue an assessment but may proceed. under the provisions of Sections
148.11 and
148.12 of this chapter. (See
148.12  A 2.) When any taxpayer subject to the provisions of this chapter has
failed to file a return as required by this chapter, the Tax Administrator need
not issue an assessment but may proceed under the provisions of section
148.12  B of this chapter.
         e.   Prior to receipt of final assessment notification, a taxpayer who
is dissatisfied with any ruling or decision of Tax Administrator may appeal to
the Board of Tax Appeals within 30 days from the announcement of such ruling or
decision. Such written notice of appeal shall be specific in nature and filed
in accordance with sub-section C 1 b i of this Section
148.08 .
       2.   Assessment provisions affecting employers:
         a.   If the Tax Administrator determines that an employer subject to
the provisions of this chapter, has failed to withhold tax, has failed to file
a return for tax withheld and/or has failed to pay the full amount of said
taxes, the Tax Administrator may issue a proposed assessment showing the amount
of tax due,. together with any penalties and interest that may have accrued
thereon. Thereafter the provisions of Paragraphs C 1 of this Section
148.08  shall apply.
         b.   When an employer subject to the provIsIons of this chapter has
filed a return indicating the amount of tax withheld and has failed to pay said
tax to the Tax Administrator as required by this chapter, the Tax Administrator
may proceed under the provisions of Sections
148.11 and
148.12 of this chapter and need not issue an assessment as provided in this
Section
148.08. (See Section
148.12 A 2.)
   D.   Payment of tax assessments shall be made as follows:
      1.   Any taxpayer or employer who has not filed a notice of appeal to the
Board of Tax Appeals from a final assessment issued against him shall pay the
amount thereof within thirty days after service of such final assessment.
      2.   Any taxpayer or employer who has filed a notice of appeal to the
Board of Tax Appeals shall pay the amount determined to be due by the Board of
Tax Appeals and/or submit the information/documentation deemed to be necessary
as ruled by the Board of Tax Appeals within fifteen (15) days after service on
him of the Board's decision.
   E.   Extensions: The Tax Administrator shall have the authority, when
requested by the taxpayer and for good cause shown, to -extend the time of
making and filing any return The Tax Administrator may require a tentative
return, accompanied by the amount of tax set forth therein as being due, by the
date the return normally is due.
      1.   The taxpayer shall make the request by filing a copy of the
taxpayer's request for a federal filing extension with the Tax Administrator no
later than the last day on which the municipal income tax return is due.
      2.   For taxable years beginning after 2003, the extended due date of the
municipal income tax return shall be the last day of the month following the
month to which the due date of the federal income tax return has been extended.
      3.   Any taxpayer that is subject to Oakwood municipal tax on the net
profit from a business or profession and has received an extension to file
federal income tax return shall not be required to notify the City of Oakwood
of the federal extension and shall not be required to file the municipal income
tax return until the last day of the month to which the due date for filing the
federal return has been extended, provided that, on or before the date for
filing the municipal income tax return, the person notified the Tax
Administrator of the federal extension through the Ohio business gateway.
      4.   The Tax Administrator may deny a taxpayer's request for extension if
the taxpayer:
         a.   fails to timely file the request; or
         b.   fails to file a copy of the federal extension request, (if
applicable); or
         c.   owes the municipality any delinquent income tax, penalty,
interest, assessment, or other charge for the late payment or nonpayment of
income tax; or
         d.   has failed to file any required income tax return, r,eport, or
other related document for a prior tax period.
      5.   The granting of an extension for filing a municipal tax return does
not extend the due date as provided in this section for payment of the tax;
hence, penalry and interest shall apply to any unpaid tax during the period of
extension at the rates and in the manner set forth in section
148.10 .
   F.   When requested by a taxpayer, the Tax Administrator may authorize
partial payments of unpaid taxes if in his judgment the taxpayer is unable, due
to hardship conditions, to pay the full amount of the tax when due and such
deferred payments are the best means of accomplishing the intent of this
chapter. The Tax Administrator shall not authorize an extension of time for the
payment of said taxes due for more than 12 months beyond the date of the filing
of the request.
148.09 INVESTIGATIVE POWERS OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR PENALTY FOR DIVULGING
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   A.   The Tax Administrator or any authorized employee is hereby authorized
to examine the books, papers, records and copies of federal income tax returns
of any employer or of any taxpayer or person subject to, or whom the Tax
Administrator believes is subject to, the provisions of this chapter. The
official duties of the Finance Director shall include overseeing the work of
the Tax Administrator and said Finance Director shall have access to and the
right to inspect all records required to perform his or her legally delegated
duties of overseeing administration and enforcement of the tax laws of the city
of Oakwood. The purpose of such examination shall be to verify the accuracy of
any return made or, if no return was made, to ascertain the tax due under this
chapter. Every such employer, supposed employer, taxpayer and supposed taxpayer
is hereby directed and required to furnish within ten days following a written
request by the Tax Administrator or his duly authorized agent or employee the
means, facilities and opportunity for making such examinations.
   B.   The Tax Administrator is hereby authorized to order any person presumed
to have knowledge of the facts to appear before him and to examine such person
under oath concerning any income which was or should have been returned for
taxation or any transaction tending to affect such income. For this purpose the
Tax Administrator may compel the production of books, papers, records and
copies of federal income tax returns and the attendance of all persons before
him, whether as parties or witnesses, whenever he believes such persons have
knowledge of such income or information pertinent to such inquiry.
   C.   The refusal to produce books, papers, records and copies of federal
income tax returns, or the refusal to submit to such examination by any
employer or person subject or presumed to be subject to the tax or by any
officer, agent or employee of a person subject to the tax or required to
withhold tax or the failure of any person to comply with the provisions of this
chapter or with an order or subpoena of the Tax Administrator authorized hereby
shall be deemed a violation of this section, punishable as provided in Section
148.12 of this chapter.
   D.   Any information gained as a result of any returns, investigations,
hearings or verifications required or authorized by this chapter shall be
confidential, except for official purposes which shall include but shall not be
limited to the exchange of income tax information with other government
entities, and except when ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction. Any
person divulging such information in violation of this section shall, upon
conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a first degree misdemeanor. Each
disclosure shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to the above
penalty, any employee of the City of Oakwood who violates the provisions of
this section relative to the disclosure of confidential information shall be
guilty of an offense punishable by immediate dismissal.
      1.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the Tax Administrator may
release to the Finance Department statistics, for use in preparation and
publication of the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report, statistics in a form
that does not disclose information with respect to particular taxpayers. For
purposes of this section, statistics shall mean (i) the ranking, in order of
the total amount withheld (without revealing the actual amount withheld) and
remitted to the city, of the top ten (10) income tax withholders by year; and
(ii) aggregate income tax paid or withheld by taxpayer type.
 
   E.   Every taxpayer shall retain all records necessary to compute his tax
liability for a period of five years from the date his return is filed, or the
withholding taxes are paid, whichever is later.
148.10  INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   A.   All taxes imposed and all sums of money withheld or required to be
withheld by employers under the provisions of this chapter which remain unpaid
ten days after they become due shall bear interest at the rate of one and one-
half percent per month or fraction thereof.
   B.   In addition to interest as provided in paragraph A hereof, underpayment
penalties based on the unpaid tax are hereby imposed as follows:
      1.   For failure to pay taxes due, on net income (of an individual,
business or other taxable entity) one-half of one percent per month (or
fraction thereof) or ten percent of the net taxes due, whichever is greater.
      2.   For failure to withhold and/or remit taxes due on employees' yvages
withheld from employees, three percent per month (or fraction thereof) or ten
percent of the taxes to have been withheld or remitted, whichever is greater.
      3.   When the taxpayer has failed to file a declaration on which he has
estimated and paid a tax at least equal to the tax paid for the previ- ous
year, or a tax at least equal to ninety percent of the actual tax due for the
current year, or has failed to file a final return and pay the total tax on or
before the end of the month following the end of his taxable year, ten percent
of the difference between ninety percent of the actual tax for the year and the
amount paid through withholding and/or declaration.
      4.   Except in the case of fraud, the underpayment penalty shall not
exceed fifty percent of the unpaid tax.
   C.   Exceptions. An underpayment penalty shall not be assessed on an
additional tax assessment made by the Tax Administrator when a return has been
filed in good faith and the tax paid thereon within the time prescribed. In the
absence of fraud, neither underpayment penalty nor interest shall be assessed
on any additional tax assessment resulting from a federal audit, providing an
amended return is filed under this chapter and the additional tax is paid
within three months after final determination of the federal tax liability.
   D.   After receiving the recommendation of the Tax Administrator, and except
in the case of fraud, the Board of Adjudication may abate underpayment penalty
or interest, or both in individual cases and/or may adopt, alter or revoke a
general policy regarding the abatement of underpayment penalty, interest or
both, and apply that policy to taxpayers.
 
   E.   In no case shall underpayment penalty and/or interest charges be levied
when the total of such underpayment penalty and/or interest amounts to less
than $1.00.
   F.   Any person required to withhold the tax who knowingly fails to do so or
to pay over such tax or knowingly attempts in any manner to evade or defeat
such tax or the payment thereof shall be liable to an underpayment penalty
equal to the total amount of the tax evaded or not withheld or not paid over.
No other underpayment penalty under this section shall be applied to any
offense to which this underpayment penalty is applied.
   G.   For failure to file any complete income tax or withholding return by
the due date, including due dates extended as set forth in Section
148.08 (E), there shall be due a non-filing penalty in addition to all other
penalties and interest, even if no tax is due. This non-filing penalty shall
apply to any return filed, or required to be filed, on or after January 1,
2014. The amount of the non-filing penalty shall be twenty-five dollars
( $25.00) for any return that is filed from one (1) to thirty (30) calendar
days after the due date, and shall increase to fifty dollars ($50.00)
thereafter. In cases where a return is filed but incomplete and the defect is
timely cured in response to a request from the Tax Administrator, the Tax
Administrator shall have discretion to waive the non-filing penalty.
   H.   Interest and underpayment penalty, but no non-filing penalty will be
assessed where an extension has been granted by the Tax Administrator and the
final tax paid within the period as extended.
148.11 COLLECTION OF UNPAID TAXES AND REFUND OF OVERPAYMENTS.
   A.   All taxes imposed by this chapter shall be collectible by civil suit as
other debts of like amount are recoverable, together with any interest and
penalties, and attorneys' reasonable fees incurred by the city with regard to
that litigation; any legal services rendered leading up to litigation and any
legal services rendered in connection with col_lection efforts whether or not
litigation results. Except in the case of fraud, omission of twenty five
percent of income subject to this tax, or failure to file a return, an
additional assessment shall not be made after three years from the time the
return was due or filed whichever is later; provided, however, that if the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue and the taxpayer have executed a waiver of the
federal statute of limitations, the period within which an additional
assessment may be made by the Tax Administrator shall be one year from the time
of the final determination of the federal tax liability.
   B.   Taxes erroneously paid shall not be refunded unless a claim for refund
is made within three years from the date which such payment was made or the
return was due, or within three months after final determination of the federal
tax liability, whichever is later.
   C.   The tax liability of a non-resident working both inside and outside the
corporate limits of the city shall be computed on the formula of the total
number of days worked in the city, divided by the total number of days worked
during the year, excluding holidays, vacation and sick leave time, and the
resulting percentage applied to the total related annual income from gross
wages, salaries and other compensation. Where no records can be substantiated
regarding the total number of days worked during the year, the figure 260 is to
be used as the base number of days worked. A listing of the specific dates and
work locations for days worked outside the corporate limits of the city and
employer certification shall be required.
   D.   Where a non-resident works both inside and outside the corporate limits
of the City of Oakwood, but such work does not conform to a day in or a day out
pattern, such as a mail carrier route, a substitute refund computation may be
used, at the discretion of the Tax Administrator, whereby the employer
certifies the percentage of time the employee worked in various jurisdictions
during the year.
   E.   Additional amounts of less than $1.00 shall not be refunded or
assessed.
148.12 CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
   A.   Exceptions from the criminal penalties of this section are as follows:
      1.   Any person subject to the provisions of this chapter who has filed
an incorrect return or who has failed to pay the full amount of tax due shall
not be deemed to have committed an offense punishable under the provisions of
this section until any assessment issued against him under Section
148.08  above has become final and the time for payment thereof has expired.
      2.   Any person who has filed a return under the provisions of this chap-
ter indicating the amount of tax due and has failed to pay said tax, together
with any penalties or interest that may have accrued there- on, shall not be
deemed to have committed an offense for having knowingly failed to pay the tax,
penalties or interest due as provided in Paragraph B 3 below until the date of
filing such return, or until such time as any assessment issued against that
person under Section
148.08 above has become final and the time for payment thereof has expired,
whichever occurs earlier. (See Section
148.08 C 1 c and C 2 b.)
   B.   Every person shall be guilty of a first degree misdemeanor for each of
the following acts which such person may do:
      1.   Recklessly fail or knowingly refuse to make any return or
declaration required by this chapter; or
      2.   Knowingly make an incorrect return; or
      3.   Knowingly fail or refuse to pay any obligations imposetj by this
chapter; or
      4.   Knowingly fail or refuse to withhold the tax from his employees and
remit such withholding to the Tax Administrator; or
      5.   Knowingly refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or duly authorized
agent or employee to examine his employer's books, records, papers and copies
of federal income tax returns relating to the income or net profits of a
taxpayer; or
      6.   Knowingly fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce
his employer's books, records, papers or copies of federal income tax returns
relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer; or
      7.   Knowingly refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any
information with respect to the income or net profit of a taxpayer; or
      8.   Knowingly fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any
order or subpoena of the Tax Administrator; or
      9.   Knowingly attempt to do anything whatever to evade the payment of
the whole or any part of the obligations imposed by this chapter.
   C.   In addition to the meaning prescribed in Section
148.02 of this chapter, the term "person" as used in this section shall include
(in the case of an association or corporation not having any partner, member or
officer within the City of Oakwood) any employee or agent of such association
or corporation who can be found within the corporate limits of the City.
   D.   All prosecutions under this section must be commenced within three
years after the commission of the offense, except that in the case of fraud,
failure to file a return, or the omission of twenty five percent or more of
income required to be reported, prosecutions may be commenced within six years
after the commission of the offense.
   E.   The failure of any employer, taxpayer or person to obtain or receive
any form shall not excuse him from the duty of completing and filing such form
or from paying the tax.
148.13 BOARD OF ADJUDICATION AND BOARD OF TAX APPEALS.
   A.   Board of Adjudication.
      1.   A Board of Adjudication is hereby created to consist of the City
Manager or a person designated by him, the Director of Finance or a person
designated by him, and the City Attorney or his/her designated Assistant City
Attorney. The board may select one of its members each year to serve for a one
year term as chairman and may elect a secretary in similar manner. A majority
of the members of the board shall constitute a quorum.
      2.   The board shall adopt its own procedural rules and shall keep a
record of its proceedings. All hearings of the board shall be conducted
privately and the provisions of Section
148.09 above with reference to the confidential character of information
required to be disclosed by this chapter shall apply to all matters presented
to the Board of Adjudication.
      3.   After receiving the request or recommendation of the Tax
Administrator as to modification of any assessment of, or collection procedure
or refund regarding, any tax, penalty and/or interest, the board shall have the
authority to make a decision on any such matter in individual cases and/or to
adopt, alter or revoke a general policy to be followed as to all taxpayers.
   B.   Board of Tax Appeals. (See ADMIN
160.02  for subpoena power)
      1.   A Board of Tax Appeals is hereby created consisting of three repre-
sentative citizens of the City of Oakwood (who are not employees of the city
buto who may serve on other citizen boards and commissions of the city) to be
appointed by the City Council for a term of three years. One of the members of
the board shall be chosen by the members as .chairman of the board, and all may
receive per diem compensation if such compensation is authorized by the City
Council. A majority of the members of the board shall constitute a quorum.
      2.   The board may adopt its own procedural rules and keep a record of
its proceedings. Such records are not public records available for inspection
under Ohio Revised Code 149.43. All hearings by the board may be conducted
privately and the provisions of Section
148.09 above with reference to the confidential character of information
required to be disclosed by this chapter shall apply to all matters presented
before the board. Hearings requested by a taxpayer before the Board are not
meetings of a public body subject to Ohio Revised Code section 121.22 or to
Oakwood Ordinance section
111.15.
      3.   The board shall have jurisdiction to hear appeals filed by taxpayers
as provided in Section
148.08  of this chapter and to affirm, reverse or modify any assessment, ruling
or decision, or any part thereof made by the Tax Administrator from which such
an appeal has been filed. The board shall determine the facts and shall apply
the income tax law as set forth in this chapter but shall not have authority to
vary or waive or refuse to apply any provision of the municipal income tax law
of this City.
148.14 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   The funds collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be allocated
in such manner as may be determined by the Council of the City of Oakwood.
148.15 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID TO ANOTHER MUNICIPALITY.
   A.   If a resident of the City of Oakwood is subject to a municipal income
tax in another municipality as well as in this City, he shall not pay a total
municipal income tax (on the same income) greater than the tax imposed at the
highest rate to which he is subject.
   B.   Every individual who resides in the City of Oakwood who receives net
profits, qualifying wages, commissions or other taxable income for work done or
services performed or rendered outside the City of Oakwood, and who is liable
and has paid to another municipality an income tax on the same income taxable
and taxed under this chapter, shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed
by this chapter (on the same income to the extent such income is taxed under
this chapter) of the amount so paid by him or on his behalf to such other
municipality. The credit shall not exceed the Oakwood tax imposed on the income
earned in the other municipality(ies) where such tax is paid.
   The amount of net profit income earned in and taxed by a given municipality
(as a percentage of total net profit income attributable to taxing and non-
taxing jurisdictions) shall be used to determine each municipality's
contribution to net Oakwood taxable income, prior to calculation of the
resident city credit for taxes paid to other cities on net profit income. The
rate to be used for calculation of this credit shall be the lesser of the
resident city tax rate or the appropriate rate at which such income was taxed
by such other municipality. The resident city credit(s) for taxes paid to
another municipality(ies) on business activity net profits shall be calculated
as follows:
Oakwood net profits taxable income ( $) X municipality contribution (%) X tax
rate (%) = allowable credit.
   C.   A claim for refund or credit under this section may be made in such
manner as the superintendent may by regulation provide.
148.16 SAVING CLAUSE.
   The income tax of the City of Oakwood shall not apply to any person or
income who or which is beyond the power of the City Council to tax under this
chapter. If any sentence, clause, section or part of this chapter, or any tax
against any individual or any of the several groups specified herein is found
to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality,
illegality or invalidity shall affect only such clause, sentence, section or
part of this chapter or tax and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining
provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or other parts of this chapter or tax.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Council of the City of Oakwood
that this chapter would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or
invalid sentence, clause, section or part thereof not been included herein.
148.17 COLLECTION OF TAX AFTER TERMINATION OF CHAPTER.
   A.   If the municipal income tax levied by this chapter is replaced, the
provisions of this chapter shall continue in effect (insofar as the collection
of taxes levied hereunder and proceedings to enforce any language of this
chapter are concerned) until all of said taxes are fully paid and any and all
suits and prosecutions for the collection of such taxes or for the punishment
of violations of this chapter shall have been fully terminated.
   B.   If this chapter is repealed, annual returns due for all or any part of
the last effective year of the municipal income tax of this City shall be due
on the date provided in Sections
148.05 and
148.06 above as though this chapter were still in effect.
Legislative History: Ord. 2558, passed 4/15/68; Ord. 2857, passed 1/7/74; Ord.
2864, passed 3/8/74; Ord. 2881, passed 5/20/74; Ord. 2910, passed 3/17 /75;
Ord. 2945; passed 12/22/75; Ord. 3416, passed 4/16/84; Ord. 3417, passed 5/21/
84; Ord. 3444, passed 8/27/84; Ord. 3450, passed 9/10/84; Ord. 3451', passed
10/1/84; Ord. 3506, passed 10/7/85; Ord. 3507, passed 10/7/85; Ord. 3512,
passed 10/21/85; Ord. 3526, passed 12/16/85; Ord. 3592, passed 10/20/86; Ord.
3659, passed 6/1 /87; Ord. 3818, passed 11 /21 /88; Ord. 3911, passed 11 /6/89;
Ord. 3983, passed 7 /9/90; Ord. 4026, passed 12/17/90; Ord. 4041, passed 2/4/
91; Ord. 4048, passed 4/1/91; Ord. 4102, passed 12/23/91; Ord. 4145, passed 7/
29/92; Ord. 4178, passed 12/21/92; Ord. 4219, passed 10/4/93; Ord. 4355, passed
12/16/96; Ord. 4470, passed 8/21/00; Ord. 4473, passed 11/20/00 - effective 1/
1/01; Ord. 4541, passed 9/15/03 - effective 10/15/03; Ord. 4559, passed 10/4/
04; Ord. 4683, passed 9/21/09 - effective 10/21/09; Ord. 4685, passed 12/14/09;
Ord. 4781, passed 12/9/13.
CITY OF OAKWOOD MUNICIPAL INCOME TAX RULES AND REGULATIONS
Article XIX
SPECIAL RULINGS
ALIMONY
Alimony payments are not deductible from the gross income of the payer;
likewise, alimony payments are not taxable to the recipient.
BANKRUPTCY
   1.   Taxes due are not canceled by a discharge in bankruptcy and any balance
due may be collected by civil suit.
   2.   Interest and penalties accruing after the filing of a petition in
bankruptcy are recoverable.
(Bruning vs. 192 Federal Supplement 826)
BANKS
   1.   State banks cannot be taxed on their income from intangibles, but are
taxable on other income in the same manner as other corporations. (Ohio Finance
vs. City of Toledo)
   2.   Expenses incurred in securing non-tangible income may not be
considered, in calculating the net profits from taxable income. (Art. Ill, A.6,
C.07))
   3.   Banks cannot be required to file separate returns for their banking and
real estate activities.
BULIDING AND LOAN COMPANIES
Only their income from intangibles and capital gains is exempt from taxation.
(Ohio Finance vs. Toledo)
CAPITAL GAINS
   1.   Capital gains from the sale or exchange or other disposition of
property shall not be taken into consideration in arriving at net profits
earned.
   2.   Any amount received on a sale or other disposition of tangible personal
property used in trade or business in excess of book value, shall be treated as
taxable income under the Ordinance to the extent of depreciation allowable
after January 1, 1962. The balance shall be treated as a capital gain.
   3.   Ordinary gain realized from the disposition of real property (held more
than six (6) months) used in trade or business shall be treated as taxable
income in the same amount as computed for Federal purposes in accordance with
existing Internal Revenue Codes.
   4.   If taxpayer shows over 50% of his gross income as attributable to
capital gains, it should be verified that he is not actually engaged in such
business.
CAPITAL LOSSES
Capital losses are not deductible.
CARRIERS
Carriers operating under a certificate by the P.U.C.O. are immune, under the
Ohio Revised Code exemption of motor carriers, from City income tax, even
though the certificate under which they are operating is held by someone else.
CHURCHES
Income from property owned by churches and not incidental to its activities is
taxable. {'{'}To the extent such income is not derived from tax exempt real
estate, tax exempt tangible or intangible property or tax exempt activities.)
(Section
148.03 . I 1)
CONTRIBUTIONS
Allowable deductions by corporations only. Limited to 10% of city base income.
Carry-over and carry- back will not be recognized as a deduction.
CREDITING OF PAYMENTS
   1.   Payments to be applied first to settlement of assessment of oldest year
unless taxpayer specifies the payment is for taxes of a particular year.
   2.   A tax payment submitted for one year cannot be credited to an
assessment for a prior year without notifying the taxpayers.
DIVISION OF FUNDS
The Tax Administrator may grant permission to file on a separate accounting
basis providing each division doing business in the City files for ali taxable
years on such basis.
EMPLOYEE
   1.   The question of whether an individual is an employee or an independent
contractor is determined on the basis of how he is treated for Federal income
Tax purposes. If any of the following is done, the individual is an employee:
      A.   Wages withheld for federal income tax purposes
      B.   Withholding for Social Security.
      C.   Payment of Workmen's Compensation by an employer for his/her
benefit.
   2.   Employee is to be considered as reporting on a cash basis.
   3.   Contributions by an employer to a retirement system on behalf of his
employees are deductible in the same amount and at the sarnfi time as permitted
by the appropriate section of the Internal Revenue Code.
   4.   Schedule A - Expenses (with the exception of 2106 Employee Business
Expenses) are personal deductions of a wage earner; not deductible for city
income tax purposes.
ESTATES
Taxes owed by decedents may be collected from his estate and the mere fact that
an estate is not probated does not cancel a tax obligation.
EXEMPTION
Burden of proof is on the prospective taxpayer.
EXPENSES
   1.   Judgment of personal injuries taken against an owner of real property
used in business is a deductible expense.
   2.   Attorneys fees that are related to taxable activities are deductible
expenses.
   3.   Unless the taxpayer can present definite records of actual costs, a
formula of 5% of unearned income will be considered as the applicable expense
incurred in the production of non-taxable income. The ratio of non-taxable
income to total income will often be a more equitable percentage.
   4.   The 5% add back rule applies only to the net profits on business and
professions, not to persons whose only taxable income is from wages.
FEDERAL EMPLOYEES
   1.   Taxable by city on the same basis as any privately employed person.
(Buck Act 1940-4 U.S.C. Section 105-100), Ohio (Porges vs. Schiele, Hamilton
County Court Common Pleas, #A-164981, 9-9-59), Springfield vs. Saunders, Clark
County Court of Appeals (1962, 179 N/E2nd 370)
   2.   Non-residents are taxable even though working in area within the City
exclusively under the jurisdiction of the United States. (Thornpson vs.
Philadelphia (1958) 258 F.2d 320, Ort, den. 358 U.S. 931, 79 S ct 317, 43h.
den. 2/24/59)
FEES
Fees paid a realtor for arranging a loan are taxable.
FELLOWSHIP GRANTS
Fellowship grants are not taxable to the extent of tuition, room and board.
Stipends received for work done and services performed are taxable.
FORMULA
   1.   Required where the parent corporation sells its products to its local
officers at a profit.
   2.   Geographic location of mobile equipment governs its tax liability both
when in use and at rest.
   3.   Wages, salaries and other compensation for personal services are
defined as payments made by the employer directly to employees and not to any
sub-contractor. Therefore, individual payments for labor to a sub-contractor
may not be included as wages in computing the percentage applicable to Oakwood.
 
GROUND RENTS
   1.   Ground rents are defined as income received from perpetual leases which
the lesser does nothing to receive the rents. A monthly rental contract is not
ground rent even though the lessee does nothing.
   2.   To be earned income, it must be the result of labor, management or
supervision of real estate (Murray vs. Philadelphia 363 Pa524); and since
ground rents are the same as receipts from intangibles, they are not taxable.
GROUP TERM INSURANCE
Employer paid premiums for group term life insurance for coverage up to $50,000
are not taxed to the employee. The cost of coverage over $50,000 provided by
one or more employers is taxable to the employee in his tax year in which the
premiums are paid. (IRS Code Sec. 79)
INCOME
Payments for suggestions for improving a business are taxable.
INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS
List of independent contractors must be furnished even though payment is on a
commission basis.
INSURANCE
   1.   When a domestic insurance company has filed a certificate that it is so
classified, it need not file a declaration or final return. (5725.18 Revised
Code)
   2.   With respect to non-resident agents, if sales only are used, situs of
personal life insurance is the residence of the insured. Sales of commercial
life insurance, partnership insurance, etc. is the business location of the
insured.
   3.   Terminal payments: when a guaranteed continuance of wages for a
specified period has been agreed to with a union, such payments are considered
insurance and not taxable as wages when no personal services are performed.
INSURANCE AGENTS
Commissions received by heirs, after the death of the agent, are not earned
income and non-taxable.
INTANGIBLE INCOME
   1.   The Tax Administrator may require proof of payment of the 5% state tax
measured by yield before declaring such income exempt.
   2.   Dealers in intangibles are not taxed on that income which is subject to
taxation under the Intangible Tax Law of Ohio.
   3.   Income from collection of notes purchased at a discount form the seller
of merchandise is intangible income and not taxable if the purchaser shows
proof of payment of the 5% intangible tax to the State. However, the mercantile
company retaining its notes cannot claim these as intangible income.
INVESTMENT INTEREST EXPENSE
Investment interest expense is deductible only to the extent that it is a
result of a taxable operation.
LOANS
By professional persons to clients are not deductible.
LOSSES
   1.   Audit: On the basis of municipal, not federal regulations.
   2.   Business losses only will be permitted.
 
MANUFACTURERS' AGENTS
Sales by persons who are independent contractors who do not come under the
definition of an employee may not be used in computing the sales factor of the
formula by the taxpayer selling to such independent contractor.
MOVING EXPENSES
All reimbursements and other payments to both old and new employees for moving
expenses are to be included in gross income. (I.R.S code Section 82, 1.82-1 (2)
(2) and (3). For allowable expenses refer to section 217 I.R.S. Code.
NON RESIDENT
   1.   Non-resident employers doing business in a municipality must withhold
on their employees.
   2.   A non-resident is taxable on entire pay until substantiation from
employer is submitted.
PAY
   1.   Severance pay is taxable.
   2.   Sick and vacation pay is taxable on the same ratio as normal earnings.
RECORDS
   1.   Refunds may be withheld from an employee until the employer has filed
withholding statements and paid the tax.
   2.   All forms required, including current declarations, completed
schedules, and the furnishings of any information requested by an Auditor, are
to be filed before a refund is processed.
   3.   Where an employee also has outside income upon which he has filed and
paid, substantiation of the amount over-withheld will be required by the
employer.
   4.   Refunds will not be made to an individual or business moving from the
city until a return for the portion of the year involved has been filed and
audited.
RENTALS
   1.   Received by a corporation from property outside the corporate limits
are not taxable, even though the stockholders may be residents.
   2.   Fair rental value of a parsonage is not considered taxable income.
RESIDENCE
   1.   An individual retaining his domicile within the city is liable for the
tax on his wages even though said wages are received for work done outside the
city.
RETIREMENT PLANS
   1.   Contributions by an individual to the following retirement plans are
not to be excluded from taxable income:
      A.   Keogh Plans
      B.   Individual Retirement Accounts (IRA)
      C.   State of Ohio Deferred Compensation Plans
      D.   International City Managers Association Retirement Cor. (I.C.M.A.)
      E.   Tax Shelter Annuities
      F.   401-K
   Income tax notice was effective January 1, 1975. (Law Dept. Opinion 7/21/77)
   2.   Other plans:
There are varying types of retirement and benefit plans employers may establish
for their employees. Due to this variety, no specific statement as to the
taxable or non-taxable status to the employee can be made. The determination of
the taxable status of these plans will be on an individual basis.
   3.   For the purpose of determining compensation that is subject to the
municipal income tax of this city, the gross wages or other compensation of any
person subject to a retirement plan "pick up" by this city or any other public
employer shall include the "pick up" portion paid by the employer, whereas for
federal and state income tax purposes that portion shall not be deemed to be
part of any wages, salary or other compensation.
 
RETURNS
   1.   Any firm engaged in business in the city must file until declared non-
taxable.
   2.   Returns are required even where the tax liability is the same as the
amount declared or almost entirely from non-taxable sources.
   3.   Where a corporation owning other companies has reported on a
consolidated basis, they must continue to do so and where the taxpayer has been
reporting for each of its companies, it must continue such separate system
until change is authorized by the Tax Administrator.
   4.   Formula
Expenses of a national organization filing under separate accounting may not be
disallowed merely because they pertain to the national office.
   5.   Trustees
Trustees are required to file returns on the trust even though the tax is paid
by the recipient and the said return must give the names and addresses of the
beneficiaries of the trust.
   6.   Married persons may file joint returns.
 
ROYALTIES
Royalties are taxable if not taxed by the State as productive intangible
investments such as income from patents and copyrights. Royalties derived from
land leases (mineral rights, oil, gravel, etc.) are taxable.
SOLICITATION
   1.   Soliciting within the corporate limits on a regular basis is a taxable
activity regardless of where the sale is consummated.
   2.   Telephone orders given as a result of telephone solicitation made
outside the corporate limits with no other solicitation are not taxable.
STATE INCOME TAXES
No credit will be allowed for state income taxes paid, but credit will be
allowed for taxes owed and paid another municipality on the same income within
or outside the State of Ohio.
STOCK OPTIONS EXERCISED
Qualified: When stock acquired under a qualified stock option is sold or
exchanged before it is held 3 years, there may be ordinary income (difference
between option price and market value on date of exercise) plus capital gain
for any amount received above the market value on date of exercise. That
portion considered to be ordinary income is subject to municipal tax. That
portion considered capital gain is not taxable.
Non-Qualified: Based on I.R.S. Code Section 421, the employee will realize
income at the time when the option is exercised and the spread between the
option price and fair market value of the stock will be compensation taxable as
ordinary income at the time of exercise.
TRUSTEE
The trustee has primary responsibility for reporting and paying taxes on income
taxable under the Ordinances. However, this does not relieve the beneficiary of
the responsibility when the trustee does not report and pay.
VOW OF POVERTY
Salaries and wages are not considered received by the individual member but by
the order of organization. Section 501d of the I.R.S. Code prohibits taxation
of apostolic associations or organizations.
WITHHOLDING
Non-resident employers not required to withhold but doing so voluntarily will
be assessed for late filing of withholding taxes.
CHAPTER 148-1
Municipal Income Tax
Effective January 1, 2016
For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016
148-1.01    AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX; PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE
148-1.011    AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX
148-1.012    PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE
148-1.013    ALLOCATION OF FUNDS
148-1.014    STATEMENT OF PROCEDURAL HISTORY; STATE MANDATED CHANGES TO
MUNICIPAL INCOME TAX
   
148-1.02    EFFECTIVE DATE
 
148-1.03    DEFINITIONS
 
148-1.04    INCOME SUBJECT TO TAX FOR INDIVIDUALS
148-1.041    DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR INDIVIDUALS
148-1.042    DOMICILE
148-1.043    EXEMPTION FOR MEMBER OR EMPLOYEE OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND CERTAIN
JUDGES
 
148-1.05    COLLECTION AT SOURCE
148-1.051    COLLECTION AT SOURCE; WITHHOLDING FROM WAGES
148-1.052    COLLECTION AT SOURCE; OCCASIONAL ENTRANT
148-1.053    COLLECTION AT SOURCE; CASINO AND VLT
 
148-1.06    INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX
148-1.061    DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR TAXPAYERS WHO ARE NOT
INDIVIDUALS
148-1.062    NET PROFIT; INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX; ALTERNATIVE
APPORTIONMENT
148-1.063    CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN
148-1.064    TAX CREDIT FOR BUSINESSES THAT FOSTER NEW JOBS IN OHIO
148-1.065    TAX CREDITS TO FOSTER JOB RETENTION
 
148-1.07    DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED TAX
 
148-1.08    CREDIT FOR TAX PAID
148-1.081    CREDIT FOR TAX PAID TO ANOTHER MUNICIPALITY
148-1.082    REFUNDABLE CREDIT FOR QUALIFYING LOSS
148-1.083    CREDIT FOR PERSON WORKING IN JOINT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
148-1.084    CREDIT FOR TAX BEYOND STATUTE FOR OBTAINING REFUND
 
148-1.09    ANNUAL RETURN
148-1.091    RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX
148-1.092    RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX; INDIVIDUALS SERVING IN COMBAT ZONE
148-1.093    USE OF OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY; TYPES OF FILINGS AUTHORIZED
148-1.094    EXTENSION OF TIME TO FILE
148-1.095    AMENDED RETURNS
148-1.096    REFUNDS
 
148-1.10    PENALTY, INTEREST, FEES AND CHARGES
 
148-1.11    AUDIT
 
148-1.12    ROUNDING
 
148-1.13    AUTHORITY AND POWERS OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR
148-1.131    AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS OF THE TAX
ADMINISTRATOR
148-1.132    AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; COMPROMISE OF CLAIM AND PAYMENT
OVER TIME
148-1.133    AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; RIGHT TO EXAMINE
148-1.134    AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; REQUIRING IDENTIFYING INFORMATION
 
148-1.14    CONFIDENTIALITY
 
148-1.15    FRAUD
 
148-1.16    OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR
 
148-1.17    ASSESSMENT; APPEAL BASED ON PRESUMPTION OF DELIVERY
 
148-1.18    LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW; APPEAL TO LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW
 
148-1.19    ACTIONS TO RECOVER; STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS
 
148-1.20    ADOPTION OF RULES
 
148-1.21    OPTIONAL PROCEDURES FOR NET PROFIT TAXES
 
148-1.97    COLLECTION OF TAX AFTER TERMINATION OF CHAPTER
 
148-1.98    SAVINGS CLAUSE
 
148-1.99    VIOLATIONS - PENALTY
 
148-1.01 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX; PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE
148-1.011 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX
    (A)    The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this
Chapter
148-1  are authorized by Article XVIII, Section 3 of the Ohio Constitution. The
tax on income and the withholding tax established by this Chapter
148-1  are deemed to be levied in accordance with, and to be consistent with,
the provisions and limitations of Ohio Revised Code 718 (ORC 718). This Chapter
is deemed to incorporate the provisions of ORC 718.
   (B)    The tax is an annual tax levied on the income of every person
residing in or earning or receiving income in the municipal corporation, and
shall be measured by municipal taxable income. The Municipality shall tax
income at a uniform rate. The tax is levied on Municipal Taxable Income, as
defined herein.
(Source: ORC 718.04)
148-1.012 PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE
   (A)   To provide funds for the purposes of general municipal operations,
maintenance, new equipment, extension and enlargement of municipal services and
facilities, and capital improvements of the City of Oakwood, there shall be and
is hereby levied a tax on salaries, wages, commissions and other taxable
income, and on net profits, as hereinafter provided.
   (B) The tax levied herein shall be imposed at the rate of two and one-half
percent (2 ½%) per annum, which rate is an aggregation of rates duly approved
by voters of the Municipality and originally taking effect on or about May 1,
1968; June 1, 1974; April 1, 1975; and October 1, 1984.
(Source: ORC 718.04)
148-1.013 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   The funds collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be allocated
in such manner as may be determined by the Council of the City of Oakwood.
148-1.014   STATEMENT OF PROCEDURAL HISTORY; STATE MANDATED CHANGES TO
MUNICIPAL INCOME TAX.
   (A)   Significant and wide-ranging amendments to ORC 718 were enacted by Am
Sub HB 5, passed by the 130th General Assembly, and signed by Governor Kasich
on December 19, 2014, and H.B. 5 required municipal corporations to conform to
and adopt the provisions of ORC 718 in order to have the authority to impose,
enforce, administer and collect a municipal income tax.
   (B)   As mandated by H.B. 5, municipal income tax Ordinance 4812, effective
January 1, 2016, enacts Chapter
 148-1  in accordance with the provisions of ORC 718 to allow the Municipality
to continue the income tax and withholding tax administration and collection
efforts on behalf of the Municipality.
148-1.02 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Ordinance 4812, effective January 1, 2016, and corresponding changes
to ORC 718, apply to municipal taxable years beginning on or after January 1,
2016. All provisions of this Chapter
 148-1  apply to taxable years beginning 2016 and succeeding taxable years.
   (B)   Ordinance 4812 does not repeal the existing Chapter
148 , which remains in full force and effect for any taxable year prior to
2016, but rather enacts Chapter
148-1  as a parallel taxation ordinance effective January 1, 2016, applying to
taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016 only. For municipal taxable
years beginning before January 1, 2016, the Municipality shall continue to
administer, audit, and enforce the income tax of the Municipality under ORC 718
and Chapter
148 .
(Source: Uncodified Section
2 of Am Sub HB 5, passed Dec 2014; ORC 718.04)
148-1.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Any term used in this chapter that is not otherwise defined in this chapter
has the same meaning as when used in a comparable context in laws of the United
States relating to federal income taxation or in Title LVII of the Ohio Revised
Code, unless a different meaning is clearly required. If a term used in this
chapter that is not otherwise defined in this chapter is used in a comparable
context in both the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax
and in . Title LVII of the Ohio Revised Code and the use is not consistent,
then the use of the term in the laws of the United States relating to federal
income tax shall control over the use of the term in Title LVII of the Ohio
Revised Code.
   For purposes of this Section, the singular shall include the plural, and the
masculine shall include the feminine and the gender-neutral.
   As used in this chapter:
   (1)   "ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME," for a person required to file as a
C corporation, or for a person that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation
under division 23(0) of this section, means a C corporation's federal taxable
income before net operating losses and special deductions as determined under
the Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
      (A)   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal taxable
income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the intangible
income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held for the
production of income.
      (B)   Add an amount equal to five per cent of intangible income deducted
under division (1)(A) of this section, but excluding that portion of intangible
income directly related to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of property
described in section 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (C)   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal
taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other
disposition of an asset described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal
Revenue Code;
      (D)    (i)    Except as provided in division (1)(D)(ii) of this section,
deduct income and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the
income and gain directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of
an asset described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (ii)    Division (1)(D)(i) of this section does not apply to the
extent the income or gain is income or gain described in section 1245 or 1250
of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (E)   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income;
      (F)   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to, or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and
allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income;
      (G)   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under section 4313.02
of the Ohio Revised Code;
      (H)   (i)    Except as limited by divisions (1)(H)(ii), (iii) and (iv) of
this section, deduct any net operating loss incurred by the person in a taxable
year beginning on or after January 1, 2017.
The amount of such net operating loss shall be deducted from net profit that is
reduced by exempt income to the extent necessary to reduce municipal taxable
income to zero, with any remaining unused portion of the net operating loss
carried forward to not more than five consecutive taxable years following the
taxable year in which the loss was incurred, but in no case for more years than
necessary for the deduction to be fully utilized.
         (ii)   No person shall use the deduction allowed by division (1)(H) of
this section to offset qualifying wages.
         (iii)   (a)    For taxable years beginning in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021,
or 2022, a person may not deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a
municipal corporation that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, more
than fifty per cent of the amount of the deduction otherwise allowed by
division (1)(H)(i) of this section.
            (b)    For taxable years beginning in 2023 or thereafter, a person
may deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a municipal corporation
that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, the full amount allowed by
division (1)(H)(i) of this section.
         (iv)   Any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward deduction that is
available must be utilized before a taxpayer may deduct any amount pursuant to
division (1)(H) of this section.
         (v)   Nothing in division (1)(H)(iii)(a) of this section precludes a
person from carrying forward, for use with respect to any return filed for a
taxable year beginning after 2018, any amount of net operating loss that was
not fully utilized by operation of division (1)(H)(iii)(a) of this section. To
the extent that an amount of net operating loss that was not fully utilized in
one or more taxable years by operation of division (1)(H)(iii)(a) of this
section is carried forward for use with respect to a return filed for a taxable
year beginning in 2019, 2020, 2021, or 2022, the limitation described in
division (1)(H)(iii)(a) of this section shall apply to the amount carried
forward.
      (I)   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group's federal taxable income in accordance with division (E)(3)(b) of
Section
148-1.063  of this Chapter.
      (J)   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in the
group's federal taxable income in accordance with division (E)(3)(b) of Section
148-1.063 of this Chapter.
   If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded entity that has
made the election described in division (47)(8) of this section, is not a
publicly traded partnership that has made the election described in division
(23)(0) of this section, and is not an individual, the taxpayer shall compute
adjusted federal taxable income under this section as if the taxpayer were a C
corporation, except guaranteed payments and other similar amounts paid or
accrued to a partner, former partner, shareholder; former shareholder, member,
or former member shall not be allowed as a deductible expense unless such
payments are in consideration for the use of capital and treated as payment of
interest under section 469 of the Internal Revenue Code or United States
treasury regulations. Amounts paid or accrued to a qualified self-employed
retirement plan with respect to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former
shareholder, member, or former member of the taxpayer, amounts paid or accrued
to or for health insurance for a partner, former partner, shareholder, former
shareholder, member, or former member, and amounts paid or accrued to or for
life insurance for a partner, former partner, shareholder, former shareholder,
member, or former member shall not be allowed as a deduction.
   Nothing in division (1) of this section shall be construed as allowing the
taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be construed as
allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for purposes of
federal self-employment tax.
   (2)   (A) "ASSESSMENT" means any of the following:
         (i)   A written finding by the Tax Administrator that a person has
underpaid municipal income tax, or owes penalty and interest, or any
combination of tax, penalty, or interest, to the municipal corporation;
         (ii)   A full or partial denial of a refund request issued under
Section
 148-1.096 (8)(2) of this Chapter;
         (iii)   A Tax Administrator's denial of a taxpayer's request for use
of an alternative apportionment method, issued under Section
148-1.062 (6)(2) of this Chapter; or
         (iv)   A Tax Administrator's requirement for a taxpayer to use an
alternative apportionment method, issued under Section
148-1.062( 6)(3) of this Chapter.
         (v)   For purposes of division (2)(A)(i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of this
Section, an assessment shall commence the person's time limitation for making
an appeal to the Local Board of Tax Review pursuant to Section
148-1.18 of this Chapter, and shall have "ASSESSMENT" written in all capital
letters at the top of such finding.
      (B)   "ASSESSMENT" does not include notice(s) denying a request for
refund issued under Section
 148-1.096 (8)(3) of this Chapter, a billing statement notifying a taxpayer of
current or past-due balances owed to the municipal corporation, a Tax
Administrator's request for additional information, a notification to the
taxpayer of mathematical errors, or a Tax Administrator's other written
correspondence to a person or taxpayer that does not meet the criteria
prescribed by division (2)(A) of this section.
   (3)   "AUDIT" means the examination of a person or the inspection of the
books, records, memoranda, or accounts of a person, ordered to appear before
the Tax Administrator, for the purpose of determining liability for a municipal
income tax
   (4)   "BOARD OF REVIEW" has same meaning as "Local Board of Tax Review".
   (5)   "CALENDAR QUARTER" means the three-month period ending on the last day
of March, June, September, or December.
   (6)   "CASINO OPERATOR" and "CASINO FACILITY" have the same meanings as in
section 3772.01 of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (7)   "CERTIFIED MAIL," "EXPRESS MAIL," "UNITED STATES MAIL," "POSTAL
SERVICE," and similar terms include any delivery service authorized pursuant to
section 5703.056 of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (8)   "COMPENSATION" means any form of remuneration paid to an employee for
personal services.
   (9)   "DISREGARDED ENTITY" means a single member limited liability company,
a qualifying subchapter S subsidiary, or another entity if the company,
subsidiary, or entity is a disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes.
   (10)   "DOMICILE" means the true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer
to which, whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
   (11)   "EXEMPT INCOME" means all of the following:
      (A)   The military pay or allowances of members of the armed forces of
the United States or members of their reserve components, including the
national guard of any state;
      (B)    (i)    Except as provided in division (11)(B)(ii) of this section,
intangible income;
         (ii)    A municipal corporation that taxed any type of intangible
income on March 29, 1988, pursuant to Section 3 of S.B. 238 of the 116th
general assembly, may continue to tax that type of income if a majority of the
electors of the municipal corporation voting on the question of whether to
permit the taxation of that type of intangible income after 1988 voted in favor
thereof at an election held on November 8; 1988.
      (C)   Social security benefits, railroad retirement benefits,
unemployment compensation, pensions, retirement benefit payments, payments from
annuities, and similar payments made to an employee or to the beneficiary of an
employee under a retirement program or plan, disability payments received from
private industry or local, state, or federal governments or from charitable,
religious or educational organizations, and the proceeds of sickness, accident,
or liability insurance policies. As _used in division (11)(C) of this section,
"unemployment compensation" does not include supplemental unemployment
compensation descrtbed in section 3402(0)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (D)   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific,
literary, or educational institutions to the extent such income is derived from
tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property, or tax-
exempt activities.
      (E)   Compensation paid under section 3501.28 or 3501.36 of the Ohio
Revised Code to a person serving as a precinct election official to the extent
that such compensation does not exceed one thousand dollars for the taxable
year. Such compensation in excess of one thousand dollars for the taxable year
may be subject to taxation by a municipal corporation. A municipal corporation
shall not require the payer of such compensation to withhold any tax from that
compensation.
      (F)   Dues, contributions, and similar payments received by charitable,
religious, educational, or literary organizations or labor unions, lodges, and
similar organizations;
      (G)   Alimony and child support received;
      (H)   Awards for personal injuries or for damages to property from
insurance proceeds or otherwise, excluding compensation paid for lost salaries
or wages or awards for punitive damages;
      (I)   Income of a public utility when that public utility is subject to
the tax levied under section 5727.24 or 5727.30 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Division (11)(1) of this section does not apply for purposes of Chapter 5745 of
the Ohio Revised Code.
      (J)   Gains from involuntary conversions, interest on federal
obligations, items of income subject to a tax levied by the state and that a
municipal corporation is specifically prohibited by law from taxing, and income
of a decedent's estate during the period of administration except such income
from the operation of a trade or business;
      (K)   Compensation or allowances excluded from federal gross income under
section 107 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (L)   Employee compensation that is not qualifying wages as defined in
division (34) of this section;
      (M)   Compensation paid to a person employed within the boundaries of a
United States air force base under the jurisdiction of the United States air
force that is used for the housing of members of the United States air force
and is a center for air force operations, unless the person is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile. If the compensation is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile, tax on such income shall be payable
only to the municipal corporation of residence or domicile.
      (N)   An S corporation shareholder's distributive share of net profits of
the S corporation, other than any part of the distributive share of net profits
that represents wages as defined in section 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue
Code or net earnings from self-employment as defined in section 1402(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code.
      (O)    All of the municipal taxable income earned by individuals under
eighteen years of age.
      (P)   (i)    Except as provided in divisions (11)(P)(ii), (iii), and (iv)
of this section, qualifying wages described in division (B)(1) or (E) of
Section
148-1.052 of this Chapter to the extent the qualifying wages are not subject to
withholding for the Municipality under either of those divisions.
         (ii)   The exemption provided in division (11)(P)(i) of this section
does not apply with respect to the municipal corporation in which the employee
resided at the time the employee earned the qualifying wages.
         (iii)   The exemption provided in division (11)(P)(i) of this section
does not apply to qualifying wages that an employer elects to withhold under
division (O)(2) of Section
 148-1.052  of this Chapter
         (iv)   The exemption provided in division (11)(P)(i) of this section
does not apply to qualifying wages if both of the following conditions apply:
            (a)   For qualifying wages described in division (B)(1) of Section
148-1.052  of this Chapter, the employee's employer withholds and remits tax on
the qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee's
principal place of work is situated, or, for qualifying wages described in
division (E) of Section
148-1.052  of this Chapter, the employee's employer withholds and remits tax on
the qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employer's fixed
location is located;
            (b)   The employee receives a refund of the tax described in
division (11)(P)(iv)(a) of this section on the basis of the employee not
performing services in that municipal corporation.
      (Q)   (i)    Except as provided in division (11)(Q)(ii) or (iii) of this
section, compensation that is not qualifying wages paid to a nonresident
individual for personal services performed in the Municipality on not more than
twenty days in a taxable year.
         (ii)   The exemption provided in division (11)(Q)(i) of this section
does not apply under either of the following circumstances:   
            (a)   The individual's base of operation is located in the
Municipality.
            (b)   The individual is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the compensation is paid for the performance
of services in the individual's capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure. For purposes of division (11)(Q)
(ii)(b) of this section, "professional athlete," "professional entertainer,"
and "public figure" have the same meanings as in Section
148-1.052  of this Chapter.
         (iii)   Compensation to which division (11)(Q) of this section applies
shall be treated as earned or received at the individual's base of operation.
If the individual does not have a base of operation, the compensation shall be
treated as earned or received where the individual is domiciled.
         (iv)   For purposes of division (11)(Q) of this section, "base of
operation" means the location where an individual owns or rents an office,
storefront, or similar facility to which the individual regularly reports and
at which the individual regularly performs personal services for compensation.
      (R)   Compensation paid to a person for personal services performed for a
political subdivision on property owned by the political subdivision,
regardless of whether the compensation is received by an employee of the
subdivision or another person performing services for the subdivision under a
contract with the subdivision, if the property on which services are performed
is annexed to a municipal corporation pursuant to section 709.023 of the Ohio
Revised Code on or after March 27, 2013, unless the person is subject to such
taxation because of residence. If the compensation is subject to taxation
because of residence, municipal income tax shall be payable only to the
municipal corporation of residence.
      (S)   Income the taxation of which is prohibited by the constitution or
laws of the United States.
Any item of income that is exempt income of a pass-through entity under
division (11) of this section is exempt income of each owner of the pass-
through entity to the extent of that owner's distributive or proportionate
share of that item of the entity's income.
   (12)   "FORM 2106" means internal revenue service form 2106 filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   (13)   "GENERIC FORM" means an electronic or paper form that is not
prescribed by a particular municipal corporation and that is designed for
reporting taxes withheld by an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer,
estimated municipal income taxes, or annual municipal income tax liability,
including a request for refund.
   (14)   "INCOME" means the following:
      (A)   (i)    For residents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by
the resident, including the resident's distributive share of the net profit of
pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the resident and any net
profit of the resident, except as provided in division (23)(0) of this section.
         (ii)   For the purposes of division (14)(A)(i) of this section:
            (a)   Any net operating loss of the resident incurred in the
taxable year and the resident's distributive share of any net operating loss
generated in the same taxable year and attributable to the resident's ownership
interest in a pass-through entity shall be allowed as a deduction, for that
taxable year and the following five taxable years, against any other net profit
of the resident or the resident's distributive share of any net profit
attributable to the resident's ownership interest in a pass-through entity
until fully utilized, subject to division (14)(A)(iv) of this section;
            (b)   The resident's distributive share of the net profit of each
pass- through entity owned directly or indirectly by the resident shall be
calculated without regard to any net operating loss that is carried forward by
that entity from a prior taxable year and applied to reduce the entity's net
profit for the current taxable year.
         (iii)   Division (14)(A)(ii) of this section does not apply with
respect to any net profit or net operating loss attributable to an ownership
interest in an S corporation unless shareholders' distributive shares of net
profits from S corporations are subject to tax in the municipal corporation as
provided in division 11(N) or division 14(E) of this Section.
         (iv)   Any amount of a net operating loss used to reduce a taxpayer's
net profit for a taxable year shall reduce the amount of net operating loss
that may be carried forward to any subsequent year for use by that taxpayer. In
no event shall the cumulative deductions for all taxable years with respect to
a taxpayer's net operating loss exceed the original amount of that net
operating loss available to that taxpayer.
      (B)   In the case of nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or
activities conducted in the Municipality, including any net profit of the
nonresident, but excluding the nonresident's distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident.
      (C)   For taxpayers that are not individuals, net profit of the taxpayer;
      (D)   Lottery, sweepstakes, gambling and sports winnings, winnings from
games of chance, and prizes and awards. If the taxpayer is a professional
gambler for federal income tax purposes, the taxpayer may deduct related
wagering losses and expenses to the extent authorized under the Internal
Revenue Code and claimed against such winnings. Credit for tax withheld or paid
to another municipal corporation on such winnings paid to the municipal
corporation where winnings occur is limited to the credit as specified in
Section
148-1.081 of this Chapter.
      (E)   INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
   (15)   "INTANGIBLE INCOME" means income of any of the following types:
income yield, interest, capital gains, dividends, or other income arising from
the ownership, sale, exchange, or other disposition of intangible property
including, but not limited to, investments, deposits, money, or credits as
those terms are defined in Chapter 5701 of the Ohio Revised Code, and patents,
copyrights, trademarks, trade names, investments in real estate investment
trusts, investments in regulated investment companies, and appreciation on
deferred compensation. "Intangible income" does not include prizes, awards, or
other income associated with any lottery winnings, gambling winnings, or other
similar games of chance.
   (16)   "INTERNAL REVENUE CODE" means the "Internal Revenue Code of 1986,"
100 Sta. 2085, 26 U.S.C.A. 1, as amended.
   (17)   "LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY" means a limited liability company formed
under Chapter 1705 of the Ohio Revised Code or under the laws of another state.
   (18)   "LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW" and "BOARD OF TAX REVIEW" means the
entity created under Section
148-1.18  of this Chapter..
   (19)   "MUNICIPAL CORPORATION" means, in general terms, a status conferred
upon a local government unit, by state law giving the unit certain autonomous
operating authority such as the power of taxation, power of eminent domain,
police power and regulatory power, and includes a joint economic development
district or joint economic development zone that levies an income tax under
section 715.691, 715.70, 715.71, or 715.74 of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (20)   (A) "MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME" means the following:
         (i)   For a person other than an individual, income reduced by exempt
income to the extent otherwise included in income and then, as applicable,
apportioned or sitused to the Municipality under Section
148-1.062 of this Chapter, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating
loss carryforward available to the person for the Municipality.
         (ii)   (a)    For an individual who is a resident of a Municipality
other than a qualified municipal corporation, income reduced by exempt income
to the extent otherwise included in income, then reduced as provided in
division (20)(8) of this section, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net
operating loss carryforward available to the individual for the Municipality.
            (b)    For an individual who is a resident of a qualified municipal
corporation, Ohio adjusted gross income reduced by income exempted, and
increased by deductions excluded, by the qualified municipal corporation from
the qualified municipal corporation's tax on or before December 31, 2013. If a
qualified municipal corporation, on or before December 31, 2013, exempts income
earned by individuals who are not residents of the qualified municipal
corporation and net profit of persons that are not wholly located within the
qualified municipal corporation, such individual or person shall have no
municipal taxable income for the purposes of the tax levied by the qualified
municipal corporation and may be exempted by the qualified municipal
corporation from the requirements of section 718.03 of the Ohio Revised Code.
         (iii)   For an individual who is a nonresident of the Municipality,
income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and
then, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the Municipality under Section
148-1.062 of this Chapter, then reduced as provided in division (20)(8) of this
section, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the individual for the Municipality.
      (B)    In computing the municipal taxable income of a taxpayer who is an
individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in division (20)(A)(ii)(a)
or (iii) of this section, the amount of the individual's employee business
expenses reported on the individual's form 2106 that the individual deducted
for federal income tax purposes for the taxable year, subject to the limitation
imposed by section 67 of the Internal Revenue Code. For the municipal
corporation in which the taxpayer is a resident, the taxpayer may deduct all
such expenses allowed for federal income tax purposes. For a municipal
corporation in which the taxpayer is not a resident, the taxpayer may deduct
such expenses only to the extent the expenses are related to the taxpayer's
performance of personal services in that nonresident municipal corporation.
   (21)   "MUNICIPALITY" means the city of Oakwood.
   (22)   "NET OPERATING LOSS" means a loss incurred by a person in the
operation of a trade or business. "Net operating loss" does not include
unutilized losses resulting from basis limitations, at-risk limitations, or
passive activity loss limitations.
   (23)   (A)    "NET PROFIT" for a person other than an individual means
adjusted federal taxable income.
      (B)    "NET PROFIT" for a person who is an individual means the
individual's net profit required to be reported on schedule C, schedule E, or
schedule F reduced by any net operating loss carried forward. For the purposes
of this division, the net operating loss carried forward shall be calculated
and deducted in the same manner as provided in division (1)(H) of this section.
      (C)   For the purposes of this chapter,. and notwithstanding division
(23)(A) of this section, net profit of a disregarded entity shall not be
taxable as against that disregarded entity, but shall instead be included in
the net profit of the owner of the disregarded entity.
      (D)   (i)    For purposes of this chapter, "publicly traded partnership"
means any partnership, an interest in which is regularly traded on an
established securities market. A "publicly traded partnership" may have any
number of partners.
         (ii)   For the purposes of this chapter, and not withstanding any
other provision of this chapter, the net profit of a publicly traded
partnership that makes the election described in division (23)(0) of this
section shall be taxed as if the partnership were a C corporation, and shall
not be treated as the net profit or income of any owner of the partnership.
         (iii)   A publicly traded partnership that is treated as a partnership
for federal income tax purposes and that is subject to tax on its net profits
in one or more municipal corporations in this state may elect to be treated as
a C corporation for municipal income tax purposes. The publicly traded
partnership shall make the election in every municipal corporation in which the
partnership is subject to taxation on its net profits. The election shall be
made on the annual tax return filed in each such municipal corporation. Once
the election is made, the election is binding for a five-year period beginning
with the first taxable year of the initial election. The election continues to
be binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing municipal income tax returns as a C corporation for
municipal purposes under division (D)(iv) of this section.
         (iv)   An election to discontinue filing as a C corporation must be
made in the first year following the last year of a .five-year election period
in effect under division (D)(iii) of this section. The election to discontinue
filing as a C corporation is binding for a five-year period beginning with the
first taxable year of the election and continues to be binding for each
subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing
municipal income tax returns as a partnership for municipal purposes. An
election to discontinue filing as a partnership must be made in the first year
following the last year of a five-year election period.
         (v)   The publicly traded partnership shall not be required to file
the election with any municipal corporation in which the partnership is not
subject to taxation on its net profits, but division (D) of this section
applies to all municipal corporations in which an individual owner of the
partnership resides.
         (vi)   The individual owners of the partnership not filing as a C
Corporation shall be required to file with their municipal corporation of
residence, and report partnership distribution of net profit.
   (24)   "NONRESIDENT" means an individual that is not a resident of the
Municipality.
   (25)   “OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY" means the online computer network system,
created under section 125.30 of the Ohio Revised Code, that allows persons to
electronically file business reply forms with state agencies and includes any
successor electronic filing and payment system.
   (26)   "OTHER PAYER" means any person, other than an individual's employer
or the employer's agent, that pays an individual any amount included in the
federal gross income of the individual. "Other payer" includes casino operators
and video lottery terminal sales agents.
   (27)   "PASS-THROUGH ENTITY" means a partnership not treated as an
association taxable as a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, a
limited liability company not treated as an association taxable as a C
corporation for federal income tax purposes, an S corporation, or any other
class of entity from which the income or profits of the entity are given pass-
through treatment for federal income tax purposes. "Pass-through entity" does
not include a trust, estate, granter of a granter trust, or disregarded entity.
   (28)   "PENSION" means any amount paid to an employee or former employee
that is reported to the recipient on an IRS form 1099-R, or successor form.
Pension does not include deferred compensation, or amounts attributable to
nonqualified deferred compensation plans, reported as FICA/Medicare wages on an
IRS form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, or successor form.
   (29)   "PERSON" includes individuals, firms, companies, joint stock
companies, business trusts, estates, trusts, partnerships, limited liability
partnerships, limited liability companies, associations, C corporations, S
corporations, governmental entities, and any other entity.
   (30)   "POSTAL SERVICE" means the United States postal service, or private
delivery service delivering documents and packages within an agreed upon
delivery schedule, or any other carrier service delivering the item.
   (31)   "POSTMARK DATE," "DATE OF POSTMARK," and similar terms include the
date recorded and marked by a delivery service and recorded electronically to a
database kept in the regular course if its business and marked on the cover in
which the payment or document is enclosed, the date on which the payment or
document was given to the delivery service for delivery
   (32)   (A)    "PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD" means any net
operating loss incurred in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 2017, to
the extent such loss was permitted, by a resolution or ordinance of the
Municipality that was adopted by the Municipality before January 1, 2016, to be
carried forward and utilized to offset income or net profit generated in such
Municipality in future taxable years.
      (B)    For the purpose of calculating municipal taxable income, any pre-
2017 net operating loss carryforward may be carried forward to any taxable
year, including taxable years beginning in 2017 or thereafter, for the number
of taxable years provided in the resolution or ordinance or until fully
utilized, whichever is earlier.
   (33)   "QUALIFIED MUNICIPAL CORPORATION" means a municipal corporation that,
by resolution or ordinance adopted on or before December 31, 2011, adopted Ohio
adjusted gross income, as defined by section 5747.01 of the Ohio Revised Code,
as the income subject to tax for the purposes of imposing a municipal income
tax.
   (34)   "QUALIFYING WAGES" means wages, as defined in section 3121(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code, without regard to any wage. limitations, adjusted as
follows:
      (A)   Deduct the following amounts:
         (i)   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes
compensation attributable to a plan or program described in section 125 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
         (ii)   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes payment
on account of a disability related to sickness or an aceident paid by a party
unrelated to the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer.
         (iii)   INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.
         (iv)   INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.
         (v)   Any amount included in wages that is exempt income.
      (B)   Add the following amounts:
         (i)   Any amount not included in wages solely because the employee was
employed by the employer before April 1, 1986.
         (ii)   Any amount not included in wages because the amount arises from
the sale, exchange, or other disposition of a stock option, the exercise of a
stock option, or the sale, exchange, or other disposition of stock purchased
under a stock option. Division (34)(B)(ii) of this section applies only to
those amounts constituting ordinary income.
         (iii)   Any amount not included in wages if the amount is an amount
described in section 401(k), 403(b), or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Division (34)(B)(iii) of this section applies only to employee contributions
and employee deferrals.
         (iv)   Any amount that is supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits described in section 3402(0)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code and not
included in wages.
         (v)   Any amount received that is treated as self-employment income
for federal tax purposes in accordance with section 1402(a)(8) of the Internal
Revenue Code.
         (vi)   Any amount not included in wages if all of the following apply:
            (a)   For the taxable year the amount is employee compensation that
is earned outside of the United States and that either is included in the
taxpayer's gross income for federal income tax purposes or would have been
included in the taxpayer's gross income for such purposes if the taxpayer did
not elect to exclude the income under section 911 of the Internal Revenue Code;
            (b)   For no preceding taxable year did the amount constitute wages
as defined in section 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code;
            (c)   For no succeeding taxable year will the amount constitute
wages; and
            (d)   For any taxable year the amount has not otherwise been added
to wages pursuant to either division (34)(8) of this section or section 718.03
of the Ohio Revised Code, as that section existed before the effective date of
H.B. 5 of the 130th general assembly, March 23, 2015.
   (35)   "RELATED ENTITY" means any of the following:
      (A)   An individual stockholder, or a member of the stockholder's family
enumerated in section 318 of the Internal Revenue Code, if the stockholder and
the members of the stockholder's family own directly, indirectly, beneficially,
or constructively, in the aggregate, at least fifty per cent of the value of
the taxpayer's outstanding stock;
      (B)   A stockholder, or a stockholder's partnership, estate, trust, or
corporation, if the stockholder and the stockholder's partnerships, estates,
trusts, or corporations own directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least fifty per cent of the value of the
taxpayer's outstanding stock;
      (C)   A corporation, or a party related to the corporation in a manner
that would require an attribution of stock from the corporation to the party or
from the party to the corporation under division (35)(0) of this section,
provided the taxpayer owns directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, at least fifty per cent of the value of the corporation's
outstanding stock;
      (D)   The attribution rules described in section 318 of the Internal
Revenue Code apply for the purpose of determining whether the ownership
requirements in divisions (35)(A) to (C) of this section have been met.
   (36)   "RELATED MEMBER" means a person that, with respect to the taxpayer
during all or any portion of the taxable year, is either a related entity, a
component member as defined in section 1563(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, or
a person to or from whom there is attribution of stock ownership in accordance
with section 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code except, for purposes of
determining whether a person is a related member under this division, "twenty
per cent" shall be substituted for "5 percent" wherever "5 percent" appears in
section 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code.
   (37)   "RESIDENT" means an individual who is domiciled in the Municipality
as determined under Section
148-1.042  of this Chapter.
   (38)   "S CORPORATION" means a person that has made an election under
subchapter S of Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its
taxable year.
   (39)   "SCHEDULE C" means internal revenue service schedule C (form 1040)
filed by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   (40)   "SCHEDULE E" means internal revenue service schedule E (form 1040)
filed by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   (41)   "SCHEDULE F" means internal revenue service schedule F (form 1040)
filed by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   (42)   "SINGLE MEMBER LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY" means a limited liability
company that has one direct member.
   (43)   "SMALL EMPLOYER" means any employer that had total revenue of less
than five hundred thousand dollars during the preceding taxable year. For
purposes of this division, "total revenue" means receipts of any type or kind,
including, but not limited to, sales receipts; payments; rents; profits; gains,
dividends, and other investment income; commissions; premiums; money; property;
grants; contributions; donations; gifts; program service revenue; patient
service revenue; premiums; fees, including premium fees and service fees;
tuition payments; unrelated business revenue; reimbursements; any type of
payment from a governmental unit, including grants and other allocations; and
any other similar receipts reported for federal income tax purposes or under
generally accepted accounting principles. "Small employer" does not include the
federal government; any state government, including any state agency or
instrumentality; any political subdivision; or any entity treated as a
government for financial accounting and reporting purposes.
   (44)   "TAX ADMINISTRATOR" means the individual charged with direct
responsibility for administration of an income tax levied by a municipal
corporation in accordance with this chapter, and also includes the following:
      (A)   A municipal corporation acting as the agent of another municipal
corporation;
      (B)   A person retained by a municipal corporation to administer a tax
levied by the municipal corporation, but only if the municipal corporation does
not compensate the person in whole or in part on a contingency basis;
      (C)   The Central Collection Agency (CCA) or the Regional Income Tax
Agency (RITA) or their successors in interest, or another entity organized to
perform functions similar to those performed by the Central Collection Agency
and the Regional Income Tax Agency.
   (45)   "TAX RETURN PREPARER" means any individual described in section 7701
(a)(36) of the Internal Revenue Code and 26 C.F.R. 301.7701-15.
   (46)   "TAXABLE YEAR" means the corresponding tax reporting period as
prescribed for the taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
   (47)   (A)    "TAXPAYER" means a person subject to a tax levied on income by
a municipal corporation in accordance with this chapter. "Taxpayer" does not
include a granter trust or, except as provided in division (47)(8)(i) of this
section, a disregarded entity.
      (B)   (i)    A single member limited liability company that is a
disregarded entity for federal tax purposes may be a separate taxpayer from its
single member in all Ohio municipal corporations in which it either filed as a
separate taxpayer or did not file for its taxable year ending in 2003, if all
of the following conditions are met:
            (a)   The limited liability company's single member is also a
limited liability company.
            (b)   The limited liability company and its single member were
formed and doing business in one or more Ohio municipal corporations for at
least five years before January 1, 2004.
            (c)   Not later than December 31, 2004, the limited liability
company and its single member each made an election to be treated as a separate
taxpayer under division (L) of section 718.01 of the Ohio Revised Code as this
section existed on December 31, 2004.
            (d)   The limited liability company was not formed for the purpose
of evading or reducing Ohio municipal corporation income tax liability of the
limited liability company or its single member.
            (e)   The Ohio municipal corporation that was the primary place of
business of the sole member of the limited liability company consented to the
election.
         (ii)    For purposes of division (47)(B)(i)(e) of this section, a
municipal corporation was the primary place of business of a limited liability
company if, for the limited liability company's taxable year ending in 2003,
its income tax liability was greater in that municipal corporation than in any
other municipal corporation in Ohio, and that tax liability to that municipal
corporation for its taxable year ending in 2003 was at least four hundred
thousand dollars.
   (48)   "TAXPAYERS' RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES" means. the rights provided
to taxpayers in sections 718.11, 718.12, 718.19, 718.23, 718.36, 718.37,
718.3S, 5717.011, and 5717.03 of the Ohio Revised Code and any corresponding
ordinances of the Municipality, and the responsibilities of taxpayers to file,
report, withhold, remit, and pay municipal income tax and otherwise comply with
Chapter 718. of the Ohio Revised Code and resolutions, ordinances, and rules
adopted by a municipal corporation for the imposition and administration of a
municipal income tax.
   (49)   "VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL" has the same meaning as in section 3770.21
of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (50)   "VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL SALES AGENT" means a lottery sales agent
licensed under Chapter 3770. of the Ohio Revised Code to conduct video lottery
terminals on behalf of the state pursuant to section 3770.21 of the Ohio
Revised Code.
(Source: Most definitions can be found in ORC 718.01)
 
148-1.04 INCOME SUBJECT TO TAX FOR INDIVIDUALS.
148-1.041 DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   "Municipal Taxable Income" for a resident of the Municipality is
calculated as follows:
      (1)   "Income". reduced by "Exempt Income" to the extent such exempt
income is otherwise included in income, reduced by allowable employee business
expense deduction as found in division (20)(B) of Section
 148-1.03  of this Chapter, further reduced by any "Pre-2017 Net Operating Loss
Carryforward" equals "Municipal Taxable Income".
         (a)   "Income" is defined in Section
 148-1.03 (14) of this Chapter.
            (i)   "Qualifying Wages" is defined in Section 148-1.03(34).
            (ii)   "Net profit" is included in "income", and is defined in
Section
148-1.03  (23) of this Chapter. This section also provides that the net
operating loss carryforward shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner
as provided in division (1)(H) of Section
148-1.03.  Treatment of net profits received by an individual taxpayer from
rental real estate is provided in Section
 148-1.062 (E).
            (iii)   Section
148-1.03( 14) provides the following: offsetting and net operating loss
carryforward treatment in (14)(A)(ii)(a); resident's distributive share of net
profit from pass through entity treatment in (14)(A)(ii)(b); treatment of S
Corporation distributive share of net profit in the hands of the shareholder in
(14)(A)(iii); restriction of amount of loss permitted to be carried forward for
use by taxpayer in a subsequent taxable year in (14)(A)(iv).
            (iv)   "Pass Through Entity" is defined in Section
148-1.03 (27).
         (b)   "Exempt Income" is defined in Section
 148-1.03 (11) of this Chapter.
         (c)   Allowable employee business expense deduction is described in
(20)(B) of Section
148-1.03  of this Chapter, and is subject to the limitations provided in that
section.
         (d)   "Pre-2017 Net Operating Loss Carryforward" is defined in Section
148-1.03  (32) of this Chapter
   (B)   "Municipal Taxable Income" for a nonresident of the Municipality is
calculated as follows:
      (1)   "Income" reduced by "Exempt Income" to the extent such exempt
income is otherwise included in income, as applicable, apportioned or sitused
to the Municipality as provided in Section
148-1.062  of this Chapter, reduced by allowable employee business expense
deduction as found in (20)(B) of Section
148-1.03 of this Chapter, further reduced by any "Pre-2017 Net Operating Loss
Carryforward" equals "Municipal Taxable Income".
         (a)   "Income" is defined in Section
148-1.03( 14) of this Chapter.
            (i)   "Qualifying Wages" is defined in Section
148-1.03( 34).
            (ii)   "Net profit" is included in "income", and is defined in
Section
148-1.03 (23) of this Chapter. This section also provides that the net
operating loss carryforward shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner
as provided in division (1)(H) of Section
148-1.03.  "Net profit" for a nonresident individual includes any net profit of
the nonresident, but excludes the distributive share of net profit cir loss of
only pass through entity owned directly or indirectly by the nonresident.
            (iii)   "Pass Through Entity" is defined in Section
 148-1.03( 27).
         (b)   "Exempt Income" is defined in Section
148-1.03( 11) of this Chapter.
         (c)   "Apportioned or sitused to the Municipality as provided in
Section
148-1.062  of this Chapter" includes the apportionment of net profit income
attributable to work done. or services performed in the Municipality. Treatment
of net profits received by an individual taxpayer from rental real estate is
provided in Section
148-1.062( E).
         (d)   "Allowable employee business expense deduction" as described in
(20)(B) of Section
148-1.03  of this Chapter, is subject to the limitations provided in that
section. For a nonresident of the Municipality, the deduction is limited to the
extent the expenses are related to the performance of personal services by the
nonresident in the Municipality.
         (e)   "Pre-2017 Net Operating Loss Carryforward" is defined in Section
148-1.03 (32) of this Chapter.
148-1.042 DOMICILE.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Domicile" means the true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer
to which whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
      (2)   An individual is presumed to be domiciled in the Municipality for
all or part of a taxable year if the individual was domiciled in the
Municipality on the last day of the immediately preceding taxable year or if
the tax administrator reasonably concludes that the individual is domiciled in
the Municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
      (3)   An individual may rebut the presumption of domicile described in
division (A)(1) of this section if the individual establishes by a
preponderance of the evidence that the individual was not domiciled in the
Municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
   (B)   For the purpose of determining whether an individual is domiciled in
the Municipality for all or part of a taxable year, factors that may be
considered include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The individual's domicile in other taxable years;
      (2)   The location at which the individual is registered to vote;
      (3)   The address on the individual's driver's license;
      (4)   The location of real estate for which the individual claimed a
property tax exemption or reduction allowed on the basis of the individual's
residence or domicile;
      (5)   The location and value of abodes owned or leased by the individual;
      (6)   Declarations, written or oral, made by the individual regarding the
individual's residency;
      (7)   The primary location at which the individual is employed.
      (8)   The location of educational institutions attended by the
individual's dependents as defined in section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code,
to the extent that tuition paid to such educational institution is based on the
residency of the individual or the individual's spouse in the municipal
corporation or state where the educational institution is located;
      (9)   The number of contact periods the individual has with the
Municipality. For the purposes of this division, an individual has one "contact
period" with the Municipality if the individual is away overnight from the
individual's abode located outside of the Municipality and while away overnight
from that abode spends at least some portion, however minimal, of each of two
consecutive days in the Municipality. For purposes of this section, the State's
contact period test or bright-line test and resulting determination have no
bearing on municipal residency or domicile.
   (C)   All applicable factors are provided in Ohio Revised Code Section
718.012.
(Source: ORC 718.012)
148-1.043 EXEMPTION FOR MEMBER OR EMPLOYEE OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND CERTAIN
JUDGES.
   (A)   Only the municipal corporation of residence shall be permitted to levy
a tax on the
income of any member or employee of the Ohio General Assembly, including the
Lieutenant Governor, whose income is received as a result of services rendered
as such member or employee and is paid from appropriated funds of this state.
   (B)   Only the municipal corporation of residence and the city of Columbus
shall levy a tax on the income of the Chief Justice or a Justice of the Supreme
Court received as a result of o services rendered as the Chief Justice or
Justice. Only the municipal corporation of residence shall levy a tax on the
income of a judge sitting by assignment of the Chief Justice or on the income
of a district court of appeals judge sitting in multiple locations within the
district, received as a result of services rendered as a judge.
(Source: ORC 718.50)
148-1.05 COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
148-1.051 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; WITHHOLDING FROM QUALIFYING WAGES.
    (A)   (1)    Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer located or
doing business in the Municipality shall withhold from each employee an amount
equal to the qualifying wages of the employee earned by the employee in the
Municipality multiplied by the applicable rate of the Municipality's income
tax, except for qualifying wages for which withholding is not required under
section
148-1.052  of this Chapter or division (D) or (F) of this section. An employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer shall deduct and withhold the tax from
qualifying wages on the date that the employer, agent, or other payer directly,
indirectly, or constructively pays the qualifying wages to, or credits the
qualifying wages to the benefit of, the employee.
      (2)   In addition to withholding the amounts required under division (A)
(1) of this section, an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may also
deduct and withhold, on the request of an employee, taxes for the municipal
corporation in which the employee is a resident.
   (B)   (1)    An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall remit
to the Tax Administrator of the Municipality the greater of the income taxes
deducted and withheld or the income taxes required to be deducted and withheld
by the employer, agent, or other payer, along with any report required by the
Tax Administrator to accompany such payment, according to the following
schedule:
         (a)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer not required
to make payments under division (B)(1)(b) of this section of taxes required to
be deducted and withheld shall make quarterly payments to the Tax Administrator
not later than the fifteenth day of the month following the end of each
calendar quarter.
         (b)   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
monthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld or
required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent, or other payer on
behalf of the municipal corporation in the preceding calendar year exceeded two
thousand three hundred ninety-nine dollars, or if the total amount of taxes
deducted and withheld or required to be deducted and withheld on behalf of the
Municipality in any month of the preceding calendar quarter exceeded two
hundred dollars. Payment under division (8)(1)(b) of this section shall be made
so that the payment is received by the Tax Administrator not later than fifteen
days after the last day of each month.
         (c)   INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.
         (d)   INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.
   (C)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall make and file
a return showing the amount of tax withheld by the employer, agent, or other
payer from the qualifying wages of each employee and remitted to the Tax
Administrator. A return filed by an employer, agent, or other payer under this
division shall be accepted by the Municipality as the return required of an
employee whose sole income subjectto the tax under this chapter is the
qualifying wages reported by the employee's employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer, unless the Municipality requires all resident individual taxpayers
to file a tax return under section
148-1.091 of this Chapter,
   (D)    An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer is not required to
withhold municipal income tax with respect to an individual's disqualifying
disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the time of the disqualifying
disposition, the individual is not an employee of either the corporation with
respect to whose stock the option has been issued or of such corporation's
successor entity.
   (E)   (1)   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to withhold the
tax as required under this chapter or by the employer's, agent's, or other
payer's exemption from the requirement to withhold the tax.
      (2)    The failure of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer
to remit to the Municipality the tax withheld relieves the employee from
liability for that tax unless the employee colluded with the employer, agent,
or other payer in connection with the failure to remit the tax withheld.   
   (F)   Compensation deferred before June 26, 2003, is not subject to any
municipal corporation income tax or municipal income tax withholding
requirement to the extent the deferred compensation does not constitute
qualifying wages at the time the deferred compensation is paid or distributed.
   (G)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer required to
withhold taxes is liable for the payment of that amount required to be
withheld, whether or not such taxes have been withheld, and such amount shall
be deemed to be held in trust for the Municipality until such time as the
withheld amount is remitted to the Tax Administrator.
   (H)   On or before the last day of February of each year, an employer shall
file a Withholding Reconciliation Return with the Tax Administrator listing the
names, addresses, and social security numbers of all employees from whose
qualifying wages tax was withheld or should have been withheld for the
Municipality during the preceding calendar year, the amount of tax withheld, if
any, from each such employee's qualifying wage, the total amount of qualifying
wages paid to such employee during the preceding calendar year, the name of
every other municipal corporation for which tax was withheld or should have
been withheld from such employee during the preceding calendar year, any other
information required for federal income tax reporting purposes on Internal
Revenue Service form W-2 or its equivalent form with respect to such employee,
and other information as may be required by the Tax Administrator.
   (I)   The officer or the employee of the employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer with control or direct supervision of or charged with the
responsibility for withholding the tax or filing the reports and making
payments as required by this section, shall be personally liable for a failure
to file a report or pay the tax due as required by this section. The
dissolution of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer does not
discharge the officer's or employee's liability for a failure of the employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer to file returns or pay any tax due.
   (J)   An employer is required to deduct and withhold municipal income tax on
tips and gratuities received by the employer's employees and constituting
qualifying wages only to the extent that the tips and gratuities are under the
employer's control. For the purposes of this division, a tip or gratuity is
under the employer's control if the tip or gratuity is paid by the customer to
the employer for subsequent remittance to the employee, or if the customer pays
the tip or gratuity by credit card, debit card, or other electronic means.
   (K)   A Tax Administrator shall consider any tax withheld by an employer at
the request of an employee when such tax is not otherwise required to be
withheld by this Chapter to be tax required to be withheld and remitted for the
purposes of this section.
(Source: ORC 718.03)
148-1.052 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; OCCASIONAL ENTRANT.
   (A)   The following terms as used in this section:
      (1)   "Employer" includes a person that is a related member to or of an
employer.
      (2)   "Professional athlete" means an athlete who performs services in a
professional athletic event for wages or other remuneration.
      (3)   "Professional entertainer" means a person who performs services in
the professional performing arts for wages or other remuneration on a per-event
basis.
      (4)   "Public figure" means a person of prominence who performs services
at discrete events, such as speeches, public appearances, or similar events,
for wages or other remuneration on a per-event basis.
      (5)   "Fixed location" means a permanent place of doing business in this
state, such as an office, warehouse, storefront, or similar location owned or
controlled by an employer.
      (6)   "Worksite location" means a construction site or other temporary
worksite in this state at which the employer provides services for more than
twenty days during the calendar year. "Worksite location" does not include the
home of an employee.
      (7)   "Principal place of work" means the fixed location to which an
employee is required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary
basis. If the employee is not required to report for employment duties on a
regular and ordinary basis to a fixed location, "principal place of work" means
the worksite location in this state to which the employee is required to report
for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not
required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a
fixed location or worksite location, "principal place of work" means the
location in this state at which the employee spends the greatest number of days
in a calendar year performing services for or on behalf of the employee's
employer.
   If there is not a single municipal corporation in which the employee spent
the "greatest number of days in a calendar year" performing services for or on
behalf of the employer, but instead there are two or more municipal
corporations in which the employee spent an identical number of days that is
greater than the number of days the employee spent in any other municipal
corporation, the employer shall allocate any of the employee's qualifying wages
subject to division (B)(1)(a) of this section among those two or more municipal
corporations. The allocation shall be made using any fair and reasonable
method, including, but not limited to, an equal allocation among such municipal
corporations or an allocation based upon the time spent or sales made by the
employee in each such municipal corporation. A municipal corporation to which
qualifying wages are allocated under this division shall be the employee's
"principal place of work" with respect to those qualifying wages for the
purposes of this section.
   For the purposes of this division, the location at which an employee spends
a particular day shall be deemed in accordance with division (B)(2) of this
section, except that "location" shall be substituted for "municipal
corporation" wherever "municipal corporation" appears in that division.
   (B)   (1)    Subject to divisions (C), (E), (F), and (G) of this section, an
employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on qualifying wages
paid to an employee for the performance of personal services in a municipal
corporation that imposes such a tax if the employee performed such services in
the municipal corporation on twenty or fewer days in a calendar year, unless
one of the following conditions applies:
         (a)   The employee's principal place of work is located in the
Municipality.
         (b)   The employee performed services at one or more presumed worksite
locations in the Municipality. For the purposes of this division, "presumed
worksite location" means a construction site or other temporary worksite in
this state at which the employer provides services that can reasonably be
expected by the employer to last more than twenty days in a calendar year.
Services can "reasonably be expected by the employer to last more than twenty
days" if either of the following applies at the time the services commence:
            (i)   The nature of the services are such that it will require more
than twenty days of actual services to complete the services;
            (ii)   The agreement between the employer and its customer to
perform services at a location requires the employer to perform actual services
at the location for more than twenty days.
         (c)   The employee is a resident of the Municipality and has requested
that the employer withhold tax from the employee's qualifying wages as provided
in Section
 148-1.051  of this Chapter.
         (d)   The employee is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the qualifying wages are paid for the
performance of services in the employee's capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure within the Municipality.
      (2)   For the purposes of division (B)(1) of this section, an employee
shall be considered to have spent a day performing services in a municipal
corporation only if the employee spent more time performing services for or on
behalf of the employer in that municipal corporation than in any other
municipal corporation on that day. For the purposes of determining the amount
of time an employee spent in a particular location, the time spent performing
one or more of the following activities shall be considered to have been spent
at the employee's principal place of work:
         (a)   Traveling to the location at which the employee will first
perform services for the employer for the day;
         (b)   Traveling from a location at which the employee was performing
services for the employer to any other location;
         (c)    Traveling from any location to another location in order to
pick up or load, for the purpose of transportation or delivery, property that
has been purchased, sold, assembled, fabricated, repaired, refurbished,
processed, remanufactured, or improved by the employee's employer;
         (d)   Transporting or delivering property described in division (8)(2)
(c) of this section, provided that, upon delivery of the property, the employee
does not temporarily or permanently affix the property to real estate owned,
used, or controlled by a person other than the employee's employer;
         (e)   Traveling from the location at which the employee makes the
employee's final delivery or pick-up for the day to either the employee's
principal place of work or a location at which the employee will not perform
services for the employer.
   (C)   If the principal place of work of an employee is located in a
municipal corporation that imposes an income tax in accordance with this
chapter, the exception from withholding requirements described in division (B)
(1) of this section shall apply only if, with respect to the employee's
qualifying wages described in that division, the employer withholds and remits
tax on such qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the
employee's principal place of work is located.
   (D)    (1)    Except as provided in division (D)(2) of this section, if,
during a calendar year, the number of days an employee spends performing
personal services in a municipal corporation exceeds the twenty-day threshold
described in division (B)(1) of this section, the employer shall withhold and
remit tax to that municipal corporation for any subsequent days in that
calendar year oh which the employer pays qualifying wages to the employee for
personal services performed in that municipal corporation.
      (2)   An employer required to begin withholding tax for a municipal
corporation under division (D)(1) of this section may elect to withhold tax for
that municipal corporation for the first twenty days on which the employer paid
qualifying wages to the employee for personal services performed in that
municipal corporation.
      (3)   If an employer makes the election described in division (D)(2) of
this section, the taxes withheld and paid by such an employer during those
first twenty days to the municipal corporation in which the employee's
principal place of work is located are refundable to the employee.
   (E)   Without regard to the number of days in a calendar year on which an
employee performs personal services in any municipal corporation, an employer
shall withhold municipal income tax on all of the employee's qualifying wages
for a taxable year and remit that tax only to the municipal corporation in
which the employer's fixed location is located if the employer qualifies as a
small employer as defined in Section
148-1.03  of this Chapter. To determine whether an employer qualifies as a
small employer for a taxable year, a Tax Administrator may require the employer
to provide the Tax Administrator with the employer's federal income tax return
for the preceding taxable year.
   (F)   Divisions (B)(1) and (D) of this section shall not apply to the extent
that a Tax Administrator and an employer enter into an agreement regarding the
manner in which the employer shall comply with the requirements of Section
 148-1.051  of this Chapter.
   (G)   INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.
(Source: ORC 718.011; ORC 718.01)
148-1.053 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; CASINO AND VLT.
   (A)   The Municipality shall require a casino facility or a casino operator,
as defined in Section
6(C)(9) of Article XV, Ohio Constitution, and section 3772.01 of the Ohio
Revised Code, respectively, or a lottery sales agent conducting video lottery
terminals sales on behalf of the state to withhold and remit municipal income
tax with respect to amounts other than qualifying wages as provided in this
section.
   (B)   If a person's winnings at a casino facility are an amount for which
reporting to the
internal revenue service of the amount is required by section 6041 of the
Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the casino operator shall deduct and
withhold municipal income tax from the person's winnings at the rate of the tax
imposed by the municipal corporation in which the casino facility is located.
   (C)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a casino operator are held in trust
for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the casino operator shall
file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the Municipality,
providing the name, address, and social security number of the person from
whose winnings amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount of each such
deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the amount of
the winnings from which each such amount was withheld, the type of casino
gaming that resulted in such winnings, and any other information required by
the Tax Administrator. With this return, the casino operator shall remit
electronically to the Municipality all amounts deducted and withheld during the
preceding month.   
      (2)   Annually, on or before the thirty-first day of January, a casino
operator shall file an annual return electronically with the Tax Administrator
of the municipal corporation in which the casino facility is located,
indicating the total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar
year. The casino operator shall remit electronically with the annual return any
amount that was deducted and withheld and that was not previously remitted. If
the name, address, or social security number of a person or the amount deducted
and withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a monthly return for
that reporting period, that information shall be indicated on the annual
return.
      (3)   Annually, on or before the thirty-first day of January, a casino
operator shall issue an information return to each person with respect to whom
an amount has been deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year.
The information return shall show the total amount of municipal income tax
deducted from the person's winnings during the preceding year. The casino
operator shall provide to the Tax Administrator a copy of each information
return issued under this division. The administrator may require that such
copies be transmitted electronically.
      (4)   A casino operator that fails to file a return and remit the amounts
deducted and withheld shall be personally liable for the amount withheld and
not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty and interest
imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax deducted and
withheld.
      (5)   If a casino operator sells the casino facility or otherwise quits
the casino business, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties
and interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor shall
withhold an amount of the purchase money that is sufficient to cover the
amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and interest thereon
until the predecessor casino operator produces either of the following:
         (a)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid;
         (b)   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no
amounts are due.
If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the successor is personally
liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and withheld and penalties and
interest thereon.
      (6)   The failure of a casino operator to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person's winnings does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to those winnings.
   (D) If a person's prize award from a video lottery terminal is an amount for
which reporting to the internal revenue service is required by section 6041 of
the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the video lottery sales agent shall
deduct and withhold municipal income tax from the person's prize award at the
rate of. the tax imposed by the municipal corporation in which the video
lottery terminal facility is located.
   (E)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a video lottery sales agent are held
in trust for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   The video lottery sales agent shall issue to a person from whose
prize award an amount has been deducted and withheld a receipt for the amount
deducted and withheld, and shall obtain from the person receiving a prize award
the person's name, address, and social security number in order to facilitate
the preparation of returns required by this section.
      (2)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the video lottery sales
agent shall file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the
Municipality providing the names, addresses, and social security numbers of the
persons from whose prize awards amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount
of each such deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the
amount of the prize award from which each such amount was withheld, and any
other information required by the Tax Administrator. With the return, the video
lottery sales agent shall remit electronically to the Tax Administrator all
amounts deducted and withheld during the preceding month.
      (3)   A video lottery sales agent shall maintain a record of all receipts
issued under division (E) of this section and shall make those records
available to the Tax Administrator upon request. Such records shall be
maintained in accordance with section 5747.17 of the Ohio Revised Code and any
rules adopted pursuant thereto.
      (4)   Annually, on or before the thirty-first day of January, each video
lottery terminal sales agent shall file an annual return electronically with
the Tax Administrator of the municipal corporation in which the facility is
located indicating the total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding
calendar year. The video lottery sales agent shall remit electronically with
the annual return any amount that was deducted and withheld and that was not
previously remitted. If the name, address, or social security number of a
person or the amount deducted and withheld with respect to that person was
omitted on a monthly return for that reporting period, that information shall
be indicated on the annual return.
      (5)   Annually, on or before the thirty-first day of January, a video
lottery sales agent shall issue an information return to each person with
respect to whom an amount has been deducted and withheld during the preceding
calendar year. The information return shall show the total amount of municipal
income tax deducted and withheld from the person's prize award by the video
lottery sales agent during the preceding year. A video lottery sales agent
shall provide to the Tax Administrator of the municipal corporation a copy of
each information return issued under this division. The Tax Administrator may
require that such copies be transmitted electronically.
      (6)   A Video lottery sales agent who fails to file a return and remit
the amounts deducted and withheld is personally liable for the amount deducted
and withheld and not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty
and interest imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax
deducted and withheld.
   (F)   If a video lottery sales agent ceases to operate video lottery
terminals, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and
interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor of the video
lottery sales agent that purchases the video lottery terminals from the agent
shall withhold an amount from the purchase money that is sufficient to cover
the amounts deducted and withheld and any penalties and interest thereon until
the predecessor video lottery sales agent operator produces either of the
following:
      (1)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid;
      (2)   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no amounts
are due.
   If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the successor is
personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and withheld and
penalties and interest thereon.
   (G)   The failure of a video lottery sales agent to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person's prize award does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to that prize award.
   (H)   If a casino operator or lottery sales agent files a return late, fails
to file a return, remits amounts deducted and withheld late, or fails to remit
amounts deducted and withheld as required under this section, the Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may impose the following applicable
penalty:
      (1)   For the late remittance of, or failure to remit, tax deducted and
withheld under this section, a penalty equal to fifty per cent of the tax
deducted and withheld;
      (2)   For the failure to file, or the late filing of, a monthly or annual
return, a penalty of five hundred dollars for each return not filed or filed
late. Interest shall accrue on past due amounts deducted and withheld at th?
rate prescribed in section 5703.47 of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (I)   Amounts deducted and withheld on behalf of a municipal corporation
shall be allowed as a credit against payment of the tax imposed by the
municipal corporation and shall be treated as taxes paid for purposes of
Section
148-1.07  of this Chapter. This division applies only to the person for whom
the amount is deducted and withheld.   
   (J)   The Tax Administrator shall prescribe the forms of the receipts and
returns required under this section.
(Source: ORC 718.031)
148-1.06 INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX.
148-1.061  DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR TAXPAYERS WHO ARE NOT
INDIVIDUALS.
    "Municipal Taxable Income" for a taxpayer who is not an individual for the
Municipality is calculated as follows:
   (A)   "Income" reduced by "Exempt Income" to the extent otherwise included
in income, multiplied by apportionment, further reduced by any "Pre-2017 Net
Operating Loss Carryforward" equals "Municipal Taxable Income".
      (1)   "Income" for a taxpayer that is not an individual means the "Net
Profit" of the taxpayer.
 
         (i)   "Net Profit" for a person other than an individual is defined in
Section
148-1.03 (23).
         (ii)   "Adjusted Federal Taxable Income" is defined in Section
148-1.03 (1) of this Chapter.
      (2)   "Exempt Income" is defined in Section
 148-1.03( 11) of this Chapter.
      (3)   "Apportionment" means the apportionment as determined by Section
 148-1.062  of this Chapter.
      (4)   "Pre-2017 Net Operating Loss Carryforward" is defined in Section
148-1.03  (32) of this Chapter.
(Source: ORC 718.01)
148-1.062 NET PROFIT; INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX; ALTERNATIVE
APPORTIONMENT.
   This section applies to any taxpayer engaged in a business or profession in
the Municipality unless the taxpayer is an individual who resides in the
Municipality or the taxpayer is an electric company, combined company, or
telephone company that is subject to and required to file reports under Chapter
5745 of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (A)    Net profit from a business or profession conducted both within and
without the boundaries of the Municipality shall be considered as having a
taxable situs in the Municipality for purposes of municipal income taxation in
the same proportion as the average ratio of the following:
      (1)   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the Municipality during the taxable period to the average original cost of
all of the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in
the business or profession during the same period, wherever situated.
As used in the preceding paragraph, tangible personal or real property shall
include property rented .or leased by the taxpayer and the value of such
property shall be determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon by eight;
      (2)   Wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the Municipality to wages, salaries, and other compensation paid
during the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession,
wherever the individual's services are performed, excluding compensation from
which taxes are not-required to be withheld under section
148-1.052  of this Chapter;
      (3)   Total gross receipts of the business dr profession from sales and
rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the
Municipality to total gross receipts of the business or profession during the
same period from sales, rentals, and services, wherever made or performed,
   (B)   (1)    If the apportionment factors described in division (A) of this
section do not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer's business activity in
the Municipality, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Administrator of the
Municipality may require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any
portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method
involving one or more of the following:
         (a)   Separate accounting;
         (b)   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
         (c)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
Municipality;
         (d)   A modification of one or more of the factors.
      (2)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method shall
be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment, or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Administrator denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by division (A) of Section
148-1.19 of this Chapter.
      (3)   A Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer to use an alternative
apportionment method as described in division (8)(1) of this section only by
issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the period prescribed by division
(A) of Section
 148-1.19  of this Chapter.
      (4)   Nothing in division (B) of this section nullifies or otherwise
affects any alternative apportionment arrangement approved by a Tax
Administrator or otherwise agreed upon by both the Tax Administrator and
taxpayer before January 1, 2016.
   (C)   As used in division (A)(2) of this section, "wages, salaries, and
other compensation" includes only wages, salaries, or other compensation paid
to an employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
      (1)   A location that is owned, controlled, or used by, rented to, or
under the possession of one of the following:
         (a)   The employer;
         (b)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client, or patient;
         (c)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of a person described in
division (C)(1)(b) of this section, or a related member of such a vendor,
customer, client, or patient.
      (2)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court- martial, or similar administrative, judicial, or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee's presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer;
      (3)   Any other location, if the Tax Administrator determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (C)(1) or (2) of this section solely
in order to avoid or reduce the employer's municipal income tax liability. If a
Tax Administrator makes such a determination, the employer may dispute the
determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Tax
Administrator's determination was unreasonable.
   (D)   For the purposes of division (A)(3) of this section, receipts from
sales and rentals made and services performed shall be sitused to a municipal
corporation as follows:
      (1)   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation in which the sale originated. For the
purposes of this division, a sale of property originates in a municipal
corporation if, regardless of where title passes, the property meets any of the
following criteria:
         (a)   The property is shipped to or delivered within the municipal
corporation from a stock of goods located within the municipal corporation.
         (b)   The property is delivered within the municipal corporation from
a location outside the municipal corporation, provided the taxpayer is
regularly engaged through its own employees in the solicitation or promotion of
sales within such municipal corporation and the sales result from such
solicitation or promotion.
         (c)   The property is shipped from a place within the municipal
corporation to purchasers outside the municipal corporation, provided that the
taxpayer is not, through its own employees, regularly engaged in the
solicitation or promotion of sales at the place where delivery is made.
      (2)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation to the extent that such services are performed in the
municipal corporation.
      (3)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale of
real property located in the municipal corporation shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation.
      (4)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the municipal corporation shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation.
      (5)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the municipal corporation based upon the extent to
which the tangible personal property is used in the municipal corporation.
   (E)   The net profit received by an individual taxpayer from the rental of
real estate owned directly by the individual or by a disregarded entity owned
by the individual shall be subject to tax only by the municipal corporation in
which the property generating the net profit is located and the municipal
corporation in which the individual taxpayer that receives the net profit
resides.
A municipal corporation shall allow such taxpayers to elect to use separate
accounting for the purpose of calculating net profit sitused under this
division to the municipal corporation in which the property is located.
   (F)   (1)    Except as provided in division (F)(2) of this section,
commissions received by a real estate agent or broker relating to the sale,
purchase, or lease of real estate shall be sitused to the municipal corporation
in which the real estate is located. Net profit reported by the real estate
agent or broker shall be allocated to a municipal corporation based upon the
ratio of the commissions the agent or broker received from the sale, purchase,
or lease of real estate located in the municipal corporation to the commissions
received from the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate everywhere in the
taxable year.
      (2)    An individual who is a resident of a municipal corporation that
imposes a municipal income tax shall report the individual's net profit from
all real estate activity on the individual's annual tax return for that
municipal corporation. The individual may claim a credit for taxes the
individual paid on such net profit to another municipal corporation to the
extent that such credit is allowed under Section
 148-1.081  of this Chapter.
   (G)   If, in computing a taxpayer's adjusted federal taxable income, the
taxpayer deducted any amount with respect to a stock option granted to an
employee, and if the employee is not required to include in the employee's
income any such amount or a portion thereof because it is exempted from
taxation under divisions (11)(L) and (34)(A)(iv) of Section
148-1.03  of this Chapter, by a municipal corporation to which the taxpayer has
apportioned a portion of its net profit, the taxpayer shall add the amount that
is exempt from taxation to the taxpayer's net profit that was apportioned to
that municipal corporation. In no case shall a taxpayer be required to add to
its net profit that was apportioned to that municipal corporation any amount
other than the amount upon which the employee would be required to pay tax were
the amount related to the stock option not exempted from taxation.
This division applies solely for the purpose of making an adjustment to the
amount of a taxpayer's net profit that was apportioned to a municipal
corporation under this section.
   (H)   When calculating the ratios described in division (A) of this section
for the purposes of that division or division (B) of this section, the owner of
a disregarded entity shall include in the owner's ratios the property, payroll!
and gross receipts of such disregarded entity.
(Source: ORC 718.02)
148-1.063 CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Affiliated group of corporations" means an affiliated group as
defined in section 1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, except that, if such a
group includes at least one incumbent local exchange carrier that is primarily
engaged in the business of providing local exchange telephone service in this
state, the affiliated group shall not include any incumbent local exchange
carrier that would otherwise be included in the group.
      (2)   "Consolidated federal income tax return" means a consolidated
return filed for federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 1501 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
      (3)   "Consolidated federal taxable income" means the consolidated
taxable income of an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the
purposes of filing a consolidated federal income tax return, before
consideration of net operating losses or special deductions. "Consolidated
federal taxable income" does not include income or loss of an inc.umbent local
exchange carrier that is excluded from the affiliated group under division (A)
(1) of this section.
      (4)   "Incumbent local exchange carrier" has the same meaning as in
section 4927.01 of the Revised Code.
      (5)   "Local exchange telephone service" has the same meaning as in
section 5727.01 of the Revised Code.
   (B)   (1)    For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a
taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations may elect to
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year if at least
one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to the municipal
income tax in that taxable year and if the affiliated group of corporations
filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to that taxable
year.
         (a)   The election is binding for a five-year period beginning with
the first taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the reporting
method is required under federal law.
         (b)   The election continues to be binding for each subsequent five-
year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing consolidated
municipal income tax returns under division (B)(2) of this section; or
         (c)   A taxpayer receives permission from the Tax Administrator. The
Tax Administrator shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
      (2)   An election to discontinue filil")g consolidated municipal income
tax returns under this section must be made in the first year following the
last year of a five-year consolidated municipal income tax return election
period in effect under division (B)(1) of this section. The election to
discontinue filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is binding for a
five-year period beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
      (3)   An election made under division (B)(1) or (2) of this section is
binding on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a
municipal income tax.
   
   (C)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for that taxable year if the
Tax Administrator determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that
intercompany transactions have not been conducted at arm's length and that
there has been a distortive shifting of income or expenses with regard to
allocation of net profits to the municipal corporation. A taxpayer that is
required to file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year
shall file a consolidated municipal income tax return for all subsequent
taxable years unless the taxpayer requests and receives written permission from
the Tax Administrator to file a separate return or a taxpayer has experienced a
change in circumstances.
   (D)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated municipal income tax return in
the same manner as is required under the United States Department of Treasury
regulations that prescribe procedures for the preparation of the consolidated
federal income tax return required to be filed by the common parent of the
affiliated group of which the taxpayer is a member.
   (E)   (1)    Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2), (3), and (4)
of this section, corporations that file a consolidated municipal income tax
return shall compute adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in section
 148-1.03(1 ) of this Chapter, by substituting "consolidated federal taxable
income" for "federal taxable income" wherever "federal taxable income" appears
in that division and by substituting "an affiliated group of corporation's" for
"a C corporation's" wherever "a C corporation's" appears in that division.
      (2)   No corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return
shall make any adjustment otherwise required under division (1) of
148-1.03  of this Chapter to the extent that the item of income or deduction
otherwise subject to the adjustment has been eliminated or consolidated in the
computation of consolidated federal taxable income.
      (3)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at least
eighty per cent of the value o( its ownership interest owned or controlled,
directly or indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in
that affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year,
the corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall do one
of the following with respect to that pass-through entity's net profit or loss
for that taxable year:
         (a)   Exclude the pass-through entity's net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in Section
148-1.062  of this Chapter, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts
of the pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net
profit sitused to a municipal corporation. If the entity's net profit or loss
is so excluded, the entity shall be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer
on the basis of the entity's net profits that would otherwise be included
in.the consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
         (b)   Include the pass-through entity's net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in Section
148-1.062  of this Chapter, include the property, payroll, and gross receipts
of the pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net
profit sitused to a municipal corporation. If the entity's net profit or loss
is so included, the entity shall not be subject to taxation as a separate
taxpayer on the basis of the entity's net profits that are included in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
      (4)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less than
eighty per cent of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled,
directly or indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is includ?d in
that affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year,
all of the following shall apply:
         (a)   The corporation filing the consolidated municipal income tax
return shall exclude the pass-through entity's net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purposes of making the computations required in Section
148-1.062  of this Chapter, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts
of the pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net
profit sitused to a municipal corporation;
         (b)   The pass-through entity shall be subject to municipal income
taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with this chapter on the basis of
the entity's net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
   (F)   Corporations filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall
make the computations required under Section
148-1.062  of this Chapter by substituting "consolidated federal taxable income
attributable to" for "net profit from" wherever "net profit from" appears in
that section and by substituting "affiliated group of corporations" for
"taxpayer" wherever "taxpayer" appears in that section.
   (G)   Each corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is
jointly and severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines, charges,
or other amounts imposed by a municipal corporation in accordance with this
chapter on the corporation, an affiliated group of which the corporation is a
member for any portion of the taxable year, or any one or more members of such
an affiliated group.
   (H)   Corporations and their affiliates that made an election or entered
into an agreement
with a municipal corporation before January 1, 2016, to file a consolidated or
combined tax return with such municipal corporation may continue to file
consolidated or combined tax returns in accordance with such election or
agreement for taxable years beginning on and after January 1,2016.
(Source: ORC 718.06)
148-1.064 TAX CREDIT FOR BUSINESSES THAT FOSTER NEW JOBS IN OHIO.
   The Municipality, by Ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable
credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer to foster job creation in the
Municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it shall be measured
as a percentage of the new income tax revenue the Municipality derives from new
employees of the taxpayer and shall be for a term not exceeding fifteen years.
Before the Municipality passes an ordinance granting a credit, the Municipality
and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement specifying all the conditions of
the credit.
(Source: ORC 718.15)
148-1.065 TAX CREDITS TO FOSTER JOB RETENTION.
   The Municipality, by Ordinance,-may grant a refundable or nonrefundable
credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer for the purpose of fostering job
retention in the Municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it
shall be measured as a percentage of the income tax revenue the Municipality
derives from the retained employees of the taxpayer, and shall be for a term
not exceeding fifteen years. Before the Municipality passes an ordinance
allowing such a credit, the Municipality and the taxpayer shall enter into an
agreement specifying all the conditions of the credit.
(Source: ORC 718.151)
148-1.07 DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED TAX.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Estimated taxes" means the amount that the taxpayer reasonably
estimates to be the taxpayer's tax liability for a municipal corporation's
income tax for the current taxable year.   
      (2)   "Tax liability" means the total taxes due to a municipal
corporation for the taxable year, after allowing any credit to which the
taxpayer is entitled, and after applying any estimated tax payment, withholding
payment, or_ credit from another taxable year.
   (B)   (1)    Every taxpayer shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for
the current taxable year, on the form prescribed by the Tax Administrator, if
the amount payable as estimated taxes is at least two hundred dollars. For the
purposes of this section:
         (a)   Taxes withheld from qualifying wages shall be considered as paid
to the municipal corporation for which the taxes were withheld in equal amounts
on each payment date. If the taxpayer establishes the dates on which all
amounts were actually withheld, the amounts withheld shall be considered as
paid on the dates on which the amounts were actually withheld.
         (b)   An overpayment of tax applied as a credit to a subsequent
taxable year is d_eemed to be paid on the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the payment is mailed or, if the payment is made by electronic
funds transfer, the date the payment is submitted. As used in this division,
"date of the postmark" means, in the event there is more than one date on the
cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
         (c)   A taxpayer having a taxable year of less than twelve months
shall make a declaration under rules prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
         (d)   Taxes withheld by a casino operator or by a lottery sales agent
under section 718.031 of the Ohio Revised Code are deemed to be paid to the
municipal corporation for which the taxes were withheld on the date the taxes
are withheld from the taxpayer's winnings.
      (2)   Taxpayers filing joint returns shall file joint declarations of
estimated taxes7
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
date prescribed for the filing of municipal income tax returns under division
(G) of Section
148-1.091  of this Chapter or on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth
month of the first taxable year after the taxpayer becomes subject to tax for
the first time.
      (4)   Taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a declaration
on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the beginning of each
fiscal year or period.
      (5)   The original declaration or any subsequent amendment may be
increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment day as
provided in this section.
   (C)   (1)    The required portion of the tax liability for the taxable year
that shall be paid through estimated taxes made payable to the Municipality or
Tax Administrator, including the application of tax refunds to estimated taxes
and withholding on or before the applicable payment date, shall be as follows:
         (a)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, twenty-two and one-half per cent of the tax
liability for the taxable year;
         (b)   On or before the fifteenth day of the sixth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, forty-five per cent of the tax liability for the
taxable year;
         (c)   On or before the fifteenth day of the ninth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, sixty-seven and one-half per cent of the tax
liability for the taxable year;
         (d)   On or before the fifteenth day of the twelfth month of the
taxable year, ninety per cent of the tax liability for the taxable year.
      (2)   A taxpayer may amend a declaration under rules prescribed by the
Tax Administrator. When an amended declaration has been filed, the unpaid
balance shown due on the amended declaration shall be paid in equal
installments on or before the remaining payment dates. The amended declaration
must be filed on the next applicable due date as outlined in (C)(1)(a) through
(d) of this section.
      (3)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the year
following that for which the declaration or amended declaration was filed, an
annual return shall be filed and any balance which may be due shall be paid
with the return in accordance with section
148-1.091  of this Chapter.
         (a)   For taxpayers who are individuals, or who are not individuals
and are reporting and filing on a calendar year basis, the annual tax return is
due on the same date as the filing of the federal tax return, unless extended
pursuant to division (G) of section 5747.08 of the Revised Code.
         (b)   For taxpayers who are not individuals, and are reporting and
filing on a fiscal year basis or any period other than a calendar year, the
annual return is due on the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the end
of the taxable year or period.
      (4)   An amended declaration is required whenever the taxpayer's
estimated tax liability changes during the taxable year. A change in estimated
tax liability may either increase or decrease the estimated tax liability for
the taxable year.
   (D)   (1)    In the case of any underpayment of any portion of a tax
liability, penalty and interest may be imposed pursuant to section
148-1.10  of this Chapter upon the amount of underpayment for the period of
underpayment, unless the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described
in division (E) of this section. The amount of the underpayment shall be
determined as follows:
         (a)   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, twenty-two
and one- half per cent of the tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by
the date prescribed for that payment;
         (b)   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, forty-five
per cent of the tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date
prescribed for that payment;
         (c)   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, sixty-seven
and one- half per cent of the tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by
the date prescribed for that payment;
         (d)   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, ninety per
cent of the tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed
for that payment.
      (2)    The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the
estimated payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is
made. For purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or before
any payment date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment
only to the extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the
payment presently required to be paid to avoid any penalty.
   (E)   An underpayment of any portion of tax liability determined under
division (D) of this section shall be due to reasonable cause and the penalty
imposed by this section shall not be added to the taxes for the taxable year if
any of the following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least ninety
per cent of the tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by
annualizing the income received during the year up to the end of the month
immediately preceding the month in which the payment is due.
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least one
hundred per cent of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for
the preceding taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable
year reflected a period of twelve months and the taxpayer filed a return with
the municipal corporation under Section
148-1.091  of this Chapter for that year.
      (3)   The taxpayer is an individual who resides in the Municipality but
was not domiciled there on the first day of January of the calendar year that
includes the first day of the taxable year.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may waive the requirement for filing a declaration
of estimated taxes for any class of taxpayers after finding that the waiver is
reasonable and proper in view of administrative costs and other factors.
(Source: 718.08)
148-1.08 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID.
148-1.081 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID TO ANOTHER MUNICIPALITY.
   (A)   Every individual who resides in the City of Oakwood who receives net
profits, qualifying wages, commissions or other taxable income for work done or
services performed or rendered outside the City of Oakwood, and who is liable
and has paid to another municipality an income tax on the same income taxable
and taxed under this chapter, shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed
by this chapter (on the same income to the extent such income is taxed under
this chapter) based upon the amount so paid by him or on his behalf to such
other municipality. The amount of the credit shall be calculated as follows:
      1.   The credit shall equal the amount of tax actually due and paid to
such other municipality, multiplied by a reduction factor of 0.9; and
      2.   The total credit shall not exceed two and one-quarter percent (2 ¼ %
or .0225) of the income earned in the other municipality(ies) where such tax is
paid.
   The amount of income reported on federal Schedules C, E, and F, earned in
and taxed by a given municipality (as a percentage of total income reported on
federal Schedules C, E, and F, attributable to taxing and non-taxing
jurisdictions) shall be used to determine each municipality's contribution to
Oakwood net profit taxable income, prior to calculation of the resident city
credit for taxes paid to other cities on net profit income.
   The rate to be used for calculation of this credit shall be the lesser of
the resident city tax
rate or the appropriate rate at which such income was taxed by such other
municipality. The resident city credit(s) for taxes paid to another
municipality(ies) on net profit income shall be calculated as follows and shall
be subject to the limits set forth above:
   (Oakwood net profits taxable income, expressed in dollars X (Municipality
contribution, expressed as a percent X (Tax rate multiplied by a reduction
factor of 0.9) = Allowable credit. (Ord. 4851, 1/2/2018.)
148-1.082 REFUNDABLE CREDIT FOR QUALIFYING LOSS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Nonqualified deferred compensation plan" means a compensation plan
described in section 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (2)   (a)    Except as provided in division (A)(2)(b) of this section,
"qualifying loss" means the excess, if any, of the total amount of compensation
the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred
compensation plan over the total amount of income the taxpayer has recognized
for federal income tax purposes for all taxable years on a cumulative basis as
compensation with respect to the taxpayer's receipt of money and property
attributable to distributions in connection with the nonqualified deferred
compensation plan.
         (b)   If, for one or more taxable years, the taxpayer has not paid to
one or more municipal corporations income tax imposed on the entire amount of
compensation the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan, then the "qualifying loss" is the product of the
amount resulting from the calculation described in division (A)(2)(a) of this
section computed without regard to division (A)(2)(b) of this section and a
fraction the numerator of which is the portion of such compensation on which
the taxpayer has paid income tax to one or more municipal corporations and the
denominator of which is the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         (c)   With respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the
taxpayer sustains a qualifying loss only in the taxable year in which the
taxpayer receives the final distribution of money and property pursuant to that
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (3)   "Qualifying tax rate" means the applicable tax rate for the taxable
year for the which the taxpayer paid income tax to a municipal corporation with
respect to any portion of the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan. If different
tax rates applied for different taxable years, then the "qualifying tax rate"
is a weighted average of those different tax rates. The weighted average shall
be based upon the tax paid to the municipal corporation each year with respect
to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
   (B)   (1)    Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a
refundable credit shall be allowed against the income tax imposed by a
municipal corporation for each qualifying loss sustained by a taxpayer during
the taxable year. The amount of the credit shall be equal to the product of the
qualifying loss and the qualifying tax rate.
      (2)   A taxpayer shall claim the credit allowed under this section from
each municipal corporation to which the taxpayer paid municipal income tax with
respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan in one or more taxable
years.
      (3)   If a taxpayer has paid tax to more than one municipal corporation
with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the amount of the
credit that a taxpayer may claim from each municipal corporation shall be
calculated on the basis of each municipal corporation's proportionate share of
the total municipal corporation income tax paid by the taxpayer to all
municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation
plan.
      (4)   In no case shall the amount of the credit allowed under this
section exceed the cumulative income tax that a taxpayer has paid to a
municipal corporation for all taxable years with respect to the nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
   (C)   (1)   For purposes of this section, municipal corporation income tax
that has been withheld with respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation
plan shall be considered to have been paid by the taxpayer with respect to the
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (2)    Any municipal income tax that has been refunded or otherwise
credited for the benefit of the taxpayer with respect to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan shall not be considered to have been paid to the
municipal corporation by the taxpayer.
   
   (D)   The credit allowed under this section is allowed only to the extent
the taxpayer's qualifying loss is attributable to:
      (1)   The insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer who had established
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan; or
      (2)   The employee's failure or inability to satisfy all of the
employer's terms and conditions necessary to receive the nonqualified deferred
compensation.
(Source: ORC 718.021)
148-1.083     CREDIT FOR PERSON WORKING IN JOINT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
OR ZONE.
   A Municipality shall grant a credit against its tax on income to a resident
of the Municipality who works in a joint economic development zone created
under section 715.691 or a joint economic development district created under
section 715.70, 715.71, or 715.72 of the Ohio Revised Code to the same extent
that it grants a credit against its tax on income to its residents who are
employed in another municipal corporation, pursuant to Section
148-1.081 of this Chapter.
(Source: ORC 718.16)
148-1.084 CREDIT FOR TAX BEYOND STATUTE FOR OBTAINING REFUND.
   (A)    Income tax that has been deposited or paid to the Municipality, but
should have been deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, is
allowable by the Municipality as a refund, but is subject to the three-year
limitation on refunds as provided in Section
148-1.096  of this Chapter.
   (B)    Income tax that should have been deposited or paid to the
Municipality, but was
deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, shall be subject to
collection and recovery by the Municipality. To the extent a refund of such tax
or withholding is barred by the limitation on refunds as provided in section
148-1.096 , the Municipality will allow a non-refundable credit equal to the
tax or withholding paid to the other municipality against the income tax the
Municipality claims is due. If the Municipality's tax rate is higher, the tax
representing the net difference of the tax rates is also subject to collection
by the Municipality, along with any penalty and interest accruing during the
period of nonpayment.
   (C)   No carryforward of credit will be permitted when the overpayment is
beyond the three- year limitation for refunding of same as provided in Section
148-1.096  of this Chapter.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires a Municipality to allow credit for
tax paid to another municipal corporation if the Municipality has reduced
credit for tax paid to another municipal corporation. Section
148-1.081  of this Chapter regarding any limitation on credit shall prevail.
 
(Source: ORC 718.121)
148-1.09 ANNUAL RETURN.
148-1.091 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)    An annual return with respect to the income tax levied on
Municipal Taxable Income by the Municipality shall be completed and filed by
every taxpayer for any taxable year for which the taxpayer is subject to the
tax, regardless of whether or not income tax is due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall accept on behalf of all nonresident
individual taxpayers a return filed by an employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer located in the Municipality under subsection 148-1.051(C) of this
Chapter when the nonresident individual taxpayer's sole income subject to the
tax is the qualifying wages reported by the employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer, and no additional tax is due to the Municipality.
      (3)   All resident individual taxpayers, 18 years of age and older, shall
file an annual municipal income tax return with the Municipality, regardless of
income or liability, provided however that no return shall be required from
residents who meet all of the following requirements:
         (a)   The resident is retired;
         (b)   The resident has no income subject to this tax and has so
notified the Tax Administrator in writing; and
         (c)   The resident has filed a final tax return with the Municipality.
   (B)   If an individual is deceased, any return or notice required of that.
individual shall be completed and filed by that decedent's executor,
administrator, or other person charged with the property of that decedent.
   (C)   If an individual is unable to complete and file a return or notice
required by the Municipality in accordance with this chapter, the return or
notice required of that individual shall be completed and filed by the
individual's duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other
person charged with the care of the person or property of that individual. Such
duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other person
charged with the care of the person or property of that individual shall
provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support
that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer.
This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact
information including name, address, and phone number of the duly authorized
agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other person.
   (D)   Returns or notices required of an estate or a trust shall be completed
and filed by the fiduciary of the estate or trust. Such fiduciary shall
provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support
that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer.
This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact
information including name, address, and phone number of the fiduciary.
   (E)   No municipal corporation shall deny spouses the ability to file a
joint return.
   (F)   (1)    Each return required to be filed under this section shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer's duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer, and shall include
the taxpayer's social security number or taxpayer identification number. Each
return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty of perjury.
      (2)   A taxpayer who is an individual is required to include, with each
annual return, amended return, or request for refund required under this
section, copies of only the following documents: all of the taxpayer's Internal
Revenue Service form W-2, "Wage and Tax Statements," including all information
reported on the taxpayer's federal W-2, as well as taxable wages reported or
withheld for any municipal corporation; the taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service
form 1040; and, with respect to an amended tax return or refund request, any
other documentation necessary to support the refund request or the adjustments
made in the amended return. An individual taxpayer who files the annual return
required by this section electronically is not required to provide paper copies
of any of the foregoing to the Tax Administrator unless the Tax Administrator
requests such copies after the return has been filed.
      (3)   A taxpayer that is not an individual is required to include, with
each annual net profit return, amended net profit return, or request for refund
required under this section, copies of only the following documents: the
taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service form 1041, form 1065, form 1120, form 1120-
REIT, form 1120F, or form 1120S, and, with respect to an amended tax return or
refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the refund request
or the adjustments made in the amended return.
      (4)   A taxpayer that is not an individual and that files an annual net
profit return electronically through the Ohio business gateway or in some other
manner shall either mail the documents required under this division to the Tax
Administrator at the time of filing or, if electronic submission is available,
submit the documents electronically through the Ohio business gateway or a
portal provided by Municipality. The department of taxation shall publish a
method of electronically submitting the documents required under this division
through the Ohio business gateway on or before January 1, 2016. The department
shall transmit all documents submitted electronically under this division to
the appropriate Tax Administrator.
      (5)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Administrator shall
request, and the taxpayer shall oprovide, any information, statements, or
documents required by the Municipality to determine and verify the taxpayer's
municipal income tax liability. The requirements imposed under division (F) of
this section apply regardless of whether the taxpayer files on a generic form
or on a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
      (6)   Any other documentation, including schedules, other municipal
income tax returns, or other supporting documentation necessary to verify
credits, income, losses, or other pertinent factors on the return shall also be
included to avoid delay in processing, or disallowance by the Tax Administrator
of undocumented credits or losses.
   (G)   (1)    (a)    Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each
individual income tax return required to be filed under this section shall be
completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator on or before the date
prescribed for the filing of state individual income tax returns under division
(G) of section 5747.08 of the Ohio Revised Code. The taxpayer shall complete
and file the return or notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or
on generic forms, together with remittance made payable to the Municipality or
Tax Administrator.
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each annual net
profit income tax return required to be filed under this section by a taxpayer
that is not an individual shall be completed and filed as required by the tax
administrator on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the
end of the taxpayer's taxable year or period. The taxpayer shall complete and
file the return or notice on forms prescribed by the tax administrator or on
generic forms, together with remittance made payable to the Municipality or Tax
Administrator.
         (c)   In the case of individual income tax return required to be filed
by an individual, and net profit income tax return required to be filed by a
taxpayer who is not an individual, no remittance is required if the amount
shown to be due is ten dollars or less.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to ensure
the payment of the tax imposed by the Municipality in accordance with this
chapter, the Tax Administrator may require taxpayers to file returns and make
payments otherwise than as provided in this section, including taxpayers not
otherwise required to file annual returns.
      (3)   With respect to taxpayers to whom Section
148-1.092 of this Chapter applies, to the extent that any provision in this
division conflicts with any provision in Section
 148-1.092  of this Chapter, the provision in Section
148-1.092  of this Chapter prevails.
   (H)   (1)    For taxable years beginning after 2015, the Municipality shall
not require a taxpayer to remit tax with respect to net profits if the amount
due is ten dollars or less.
      (2)   Any taxpayer not required to remit tax to the Municipality for a
taxable year pursuant to division (H)(1) of this section shall file with the
Municipality an annual net profit return under division (F)(3) and (4) of this
section.
   (I)   This division shall not apply to payments required to be made under
division (B)(1)(b) of Section
148-1.051  of this Chapter.
      (1)   If any report, claim, statement, or other document required to be
filed, or any payment required to be made, within a prescribed period or on or
before a prescribed date under this chapter is delivered after that period or
that to the Tax Administrator or other municipal official with which the
report, claim, statement, or other document is required to be filed, or to
which the payment is required to be made, the date of the postmark stamped on
the cover in which the report, claim, statement, or other document, or payment
is mailed shall be deemed to be the date of delivery or the date of payment.
"The date of postmark" means, in the event there is more than one date on the
cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
      (2)   If a payment is required to be made by electronic funds transfer,
the payment is considered to be made when the payment is credited to an account
designated by the Tax Administrator for the receipt of tax payments, except
that, when a payment made by electronic funds transfer is delayed due to
circumstances not under the control of the taxpayer, the payment is considered
to be made when the taxpayer submitted the payment. For purposes of this
section, "submitted the payment" means the date which the taxpayer has
designated for the delivery of payment, which may or may not be the same date
as the date the payment was initiated by the taxpayer.
   (J)   The amounts withheld for the Municipality by an employer, the agent of
an employer, or other payer as described in section
148-1.051  of this Chapter shall be allowed to the recipient of the
compensation as credits against payment of the tax imposed on the recipient
unless the amounts withheld were not remitted to the Municipality and the
recipient colluded with the employer, agent, or other payer in connection with
the failure to remit the amounts withheld.
   (K)   Each return required by the Municipality to be filed in accordance
with this section shall include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize
another person, including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to
communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters pertaining to the return.
The return or instructions accompanying the return shall indicate that by
checking the box the taxpayer authorizes the Tax Administrator to contact the
preparer or other person concerning questions that arise during the examination
or other review of the return and authorizes the preparer or other person only
to provide the Tax Administrator with information that is missing from the
return, to contact the Tax Administrator for information about the examination
or other review of the return or the status of the taxpayer's refund or
payments, and to respond to notices about mathematical errors, offsets, or
return preparation that the taxpayer has received from the Tax Administrator
and has shown to the preparer or other person. Authorization by the taxpayer of
another person to communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters
pertaining to the return does not preclude the Tax Administrator from
contacting the taxpayer regarding such matters.
   (L)   The Tax Administrator of the Municipality shall accept for filing a
generic form of any income tax return, report, or document required by the
Municipality in accordance with this Chapter, provided that the generic form,
once completed and filed, contains all of the information required by
ordinances, resolutions, or rules adopted by the Municipality or Tax
Administrator, and provided that the taxpayer or tax return preparer filing the
generic form otherwise complies with the provisions of this Chapter and of the
Municipality's Ordinance or resolution governing the filing of returns,
reports, or documents.
   (M)   When income tax returns, reports, or other documents require the
signature of a tax return preparer, the Tax Administrator shall accept a
facsimile of such a signature in lieu of a manual signature.
   (N)   (1)    As used in this division, "worksite location" has the same
meaning as in section
148-1.052  of this chapter.
      (2)   A person may notify a tax administrator that the person does not
expect to be a taxpayer with respect to the municipal corporation for a taxable
year if both of the following conditions apply:
         (a)   The person was required to file a tax return with the municipal
corporation for the immediately preceding taxable year because the person
performed services at a worksite location within the municipal corporation, and
the person has filed all appropriate and required returns and remitted all
applicable income tax and withholding payments as provided by this chapter. The
tax administrator is not required to accept an affidavit from a taxpayer who
has not complied with the provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   The person no longer provides services in the municipal
corporation, and does not expect to be subject to the municipal corporation's
income tax for the taxable year.
The person shall provide the notice in a signed affidavit that briefly explains
the person's circumstances, including the location of the previous worksite
location and the last date on which the person performed services or made any
sales within the municipal corporation. The affidavit also shall include the
following statement: "The affiant has no plans to perform any services within
the municipal corporation, make any sales in the municipal corporation, or
otherwise become subject to the tax levied by the municipal corporation during
the taxable year. If the affiant does become subject to the tax levied by the
municipal corporation for the taxable year, the affiant agrees to be considered
a taxpayer and to properly register as a taxpayer with the municipal
corporation, if such a registration is required by the municipal corporation's
resolutions, ordinances, or rules." The person shall sign the affidavit under
perrnlty of perjury.
         (c)   If a person submits an affidavit described in division (N)(2) of
this section, the tax administrator shall not require the person to file any
tax return for the taxable year unless the tax administrator possesses
information that conflicts with the affidavit or if the circumstances described
in the affidavit change, or the taxpayer has engaged in activity which results
in work being performed, services provided, sales made, or other activity that
results in municipal taxable income reportable to the Municipality in the
taxable year. It shall be the responsibility of the taxpayer to comply with the
provisions of this chapter relating to the reporting and filing of municipal
taxable income on an annual municipal income tax return, even if an affidavit
has been filed with the tax administrator for the taxable year. Nothing in
division (N) of this section prohibits the tax administrator from performing an
audit of the person.
(Source: ORC 718.05)
148-1.092 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX; INDIVIDUALS SERVING IN COMBAT ZONE.
   (A)   Each member of the national guard of any state and each member of a
reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to active
duty pursuant to an executive order issued by the President of the United
States or an act of the Congress of the United States, and each civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces, may apply to the Tax Administrator of the
Municipality for both an extension of time for filing of the return and an
extension of time for payment of taxes required by the Municipality in
accordance with this chapter during the period of the member's or civilian's
duty service and for one hundred eighty days thereafter. The application shall
be filed on or before the one hundred eightieth day after the member's or
civilian's duty terminates. An applicant shall provide such evidence as the Tax
Administrator considers necessary to demonstrate eligibility for the extension.
   (B)   (1)    If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the Tax Administrator shall
enter into a contract with the applicant for the payment of the tax in
installments that begin on the one hundred eighty-first day after the
applicant's active duty or service terminates. Except as provided in division
(8)(3) of this section, the Tax Administrator may prescribe such contract terms
as the Tax Administrator considers appropriate.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is qualified
for an extension under this section, the applicant shall neither be required to
file any return, report, or other tax document nor be required to pay any tax
otherwise due to the Municipality before the one hundred eighty-first day after
the applicant's active duty or service terminates.
      (3)   Taxes paid pursuant to a contract entered into under division (8)
(1) of this section are not delinquent. The Tax Administrator shall not require
any payments of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for the
extension period.
   (C)   (1)    Nothing in this division denies to any person described in this
division the application of divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
      (2)   (a)    A qualifying taxpayer who is eligible for an extension under
the Internal Revenue Code shall receive both an extension of time in which to
file any return, report, or other tax document and an extension of time in
which to make any payment of taxes required by the Municipality in accordance
with this chapter. The length of any extension granted under division (C)(2)(a)
of this section shall be equal to the length of the corresponding extension
that the taxpayer receives under the Internal Revenue Code. As used in this
section, "qualifying taxpayer" means a member of the national guard or a member
of a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to
active duty pursuant to either an executive order issued by the President of
the United States or an act of the Congress of the United States, or a civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces.
         (b)    Taxes the payment of which is extended in accordance with
division (C)(2)(a) of this section are not delinquent during the extension
period. Such taxes become delinquent on the first day after the expiration of
the extension period if the taxes are not paid prior to that date. The Tax
Administrator shall not require any payment of penalties or interest in
connection with those taxes for the extension period. The Tax Administrator
shall not include any period of extension granted under division (C)(2)(a) of
this section in calculating the penalty or interest due on any unpaid tax.
   (D)   For each taxable year to which division (A), (B), or (C) of this
section applies to a taxpayer, the provisions of divisions (8)(2) and (3) or
(C) of this section, as applicable, apply to the spouse of that taxpayer if the
filing status of the spouse and the taxpayer is married filing jointly for that
year.
(Source: ORC 718.052)
148-1.093 USE OF OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY; TYPES OF FILINGS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Any taxpayer subject to municipal income taxation with respect to the
taxpayer's net profit from a business or profession may file any municipal
income tax return or, estimated municipal income tax return, or extension for
filing a municipal income tax return, and may make payment of amounts shown to
be due on such returns, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (B)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may report the
amount of municipal income tax withheld from qualifying wages, and may make
remittance of such amounts, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (C)   Nothing in this section affects the due dates for filing employer
withholding tax returns or deposit of any required tax.
   (D)   The use of the Ohio Business Gateway by municipal corporations,
taxpayers, or other persons does not affect the legal rights of municipalities
or taxpayers as otherwise permitted by law. The State of Ohio shall not be a
party to the administration of municipal income taxes or to an appeal of a
municipal income tax matter, except as otherwise specifically provided by law.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting or removing the
authority of any municipal corporation to administer, audit, and enforce the
provisions of its municipal income tax.
(Source: ORC 718.051)
148-1.094 EXTENSION OF TIME TO FILE.
   (A)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return shall automatically receive
an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax return. The extended due
date of the municipal income tax return shall be the fifteenth day of the tenth
month after the last day of the taxable year to which the return relates.
   (B)   Any taxpayer that qualifies for an automatic federal extension for a
period other than six- months for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax
return shall automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return
shall be the same as that of the extended federal income tax return.
   (C)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return may request that the tax
administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of the date for filing
the taxpayer's municipal income tax return. If the request is received by the
tax administrator on or before the date the municipal income tax return is due,
the tax administrator shall grant the taxpayer's requested extension.
   (D)   An extension of time to file under this chapter is not an extension of
the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax Administrator grants an extension of
that date.
   (E)   If the State Tax Commissioner extends for all taxpayers the date for
filing state income tax returns under division (G) of section 5747.08 of the
Ohio Revised Code, a taxpayer shall automatically receive an extension for the
filing of a municipal income tax return. The extended due date of the municipal
income tax return shall be the san:ie as the extended due date of the state
income tax return.
(Source: ORC 718.05)
148-1.095 AMENDED RETURNS.
   (A)   (1)    A taxpayer shall file an amended return with the Tax
Administrator in such form as the Tax Administrator requires if any of the
facts, figures, computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer's annual
return to determine the tax due levied by the Municipality in accordance with
this chapter must be altered.
      (2)   Within sixty days after the final determination of any federal or
state tax liability affecting the taxpayer's municipal tax liability, that
taxpayer shall make and file an amended municipal return showing income subject
to the municipal income tax based upon such final determination of federal or
state tax liability, and pay any additional municipal income tax shown due
thereon or make a claim for refund of any overpayment, unless the tax or
overpayment is ten dollars or less.
      (3)   If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal
income tax return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a
consolidated return, based on the taxpayer's consolidated federal income tax
return, the taxpayer shall notify the Tax Administrator before filing the
amended return.
   (B)    (1)    In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due together with any
penalty and interest thereon. If the combined tax shown to be due is ten
dollars or less, such amount need not accompany the amended return. Except as
provided under division (8)(2) of this section, the amended return shall not
reopen those facts, figures, computations, or attachments from a previously
filed return that are not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the
adjustment to the taxpayer's federal or state income tax return unless the
applicable statute of limitations for civil actions or prosecutions under
section
148-1.19  of this Chapter has not expired for a previously filed return.
      (2)    The additional tax to be paid shall not exceed the amount of tax
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened.
   (C)    (1)    In the case of an overpayment, a request for refund may be
filed under this division within the period prescribed by division (A)(2) of
this section for filing the amended return even if it is filed beyond the
period prescribed in that division if it otherwise conforms to the requirements
of that division. If the amount of the refund is ten dollars or less, no refund
need be paid by the Municipality to the taxpayer. Except as set forth in
division (C)(2) of this section, a request filed under this division shall
claim refund of overpayments resulting from alterations to only those facts,
figures, computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer's annual return
that are affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the
taxpayer's federal or state income tax return unless it is also filed within
the time prescribed in section
148-1.096 of this Chapter. Except as set forth in division (C)(2) of this
section, the request shall not reopen those facts, figures, computations, or
attachments that are not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the
adjustment to the taxpayer's federal or state income tax return.
      (2)   The amount to be refunded shall not exceed the amount of refund
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened.
(Source: ORC 718.12, 718.41)
148-1.096 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a request for a refund, the Tax Administrator of the
Municipality, in accordance with this section, shall refund to employers,
agents of employers, other payers, or taxpayers, with respect to any income or
withholding tax levied by the Municipality:
      (1)   Overpayments of more than ten dollars;
      (2)   Amounts paid erroneously if the refund requested exceeds ten
dollars.
   (B)   (1)    Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, returns setting
forth a request for refund shall be filed with the Tax Administrator, within
three years after the tax was due or paid, whichever is later. Any
documentation that substantiates the taxpayer's claim for a refund must be
included with the return filing. Failure to remit all documentation, including
schedules, other municipal income tax returns, or other supporting
documentation necessary to verify credits, income, losses or other pertinent
factors on the return will cause delay in processing, and/or disallowance of
undocumented credits or losses.
      (2)   On filing of the refund request, the Tax Administrator shall
determine the amount of refund due and certify such amount to the appropriate
municipal corporation official for payment. Except as provided in division (B)
(3) of this section, the administrator shall issue an assessment to any
taxpayer whose request for refund is fully or partially denied. The assessment
shall state the amount of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the
denial, and instructions for appealing the assessment.
      (3)   If a Tax Administrator denies in whole or in part a refund request
included within the taxpayer's originally filed annual income tax return, the
Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer, in writing, of the amount of the
refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial, and instructions for
requesting an assessment that may be appealed under Section
148-1.18  of this Chapter.
      
   (C)   A request for a refund that is received after the last day for filing
specified in division (B) of this section shall be considered to have been
filed in a timely manner if any of the following situations exist:
      (1)   The request is delivered by the postal service, and the earliest
postal service postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed is not
later than the last day for filing the request.
      (2)   The request is delivered by the postal service, the only postmark
on the cover in which the request is enclosed was affixed by a private postal
meter, the date of that postmark is not later than the last day for filing the
request, and the request is received within seven days of such last day.
      (3)   The request is delivered by the postal service, no postmark date
was affixed to the cover in which the request is enclosed or the date of the
postmark so affixed is not legible, and the request is received within seven
days of the last day for making the request.
   (D)   Interest shall be allowed and paid on any overpayment by a taxpayer of
any municipal income tax obligation from the date of the overpayment until the
date of the refund of the overpayment, except that if any overpayment is
refunded within ninety days after the final filing date of the annual return or
ninety days after the completed return is filed, whichever is later, no
interest shall be allowed on the refund. For the purpose of computing the
payment of interest on amounts overpaid, no amount of tax for any taxable year
shall be considered to have been paid before the date on which the return on
which the tax is reported is due, without regard to any extension of time for
filing that return. Interest shall be paid at the interest rate described in
division (A)(4) of Section
 148-1.10  of this Chapter.
   (E)   As used in this section, "withholding tax" has the same meaning as in
section
148-1.10  of this Chapter.
(Source: ORC 718.19148-1.)
148-1.10 PENALTY, INTEREST, FEES, AND CHARGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Applicable law" means this chapter, the resolutions, ordinances,
codes, directives, instructions, and rules adopted by the Municipality provided
such resolutions, ordinances, codes, directives, instructions, and rules impose
or directly or indirectly address the levy, payment, remittance, or filing
requirements of a municipal income tax.
      (2)   "Federal short-term rate" means the rate of the average market
yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining
periods to maturity of three years or less, as determined under section 1274 of
the Internal Revenue Code, for July of the current year.
      (3)   "Income tax," "estimated income tax," and "withholding tax" mean
any income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax imposed by a
municipal corporation pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before
January 1, 2016.
      (4)   "Interest rate as described in division (A) of this section" means
the federal short- term rate, rounded to the nearest whole number per cent,
plus five per cent. The rate shall apply for the calendar year next following
the July of the year in which the federal short-term rate is determined in
accordance with division (A)(2) of this section.
      (5)   "Return" includes any tax return, report, reconciliation, schedule,
and other document required to be filed with a Tax Administrator or municipal
corporation by a taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer, or any other
payer pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      (6)   "Unpaid estimated income tax" means estimated income tax due but
not paid by the date the tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (7)   "Unpaid income tax" means income tax due but not paid by the date
the income tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (8)   "Unpaid withholding tax" means withholding tax due but not paid by
the date the withholding tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (9)   "Withholding tax" includes amounts an employer, any agent of an
employer, or any other payer did not withhold in whole or in part from an
employee's qualifying wages, but that, under applicable law, the employer,
agent, or other payer is required to withhold from an employee's qualifying
wages.
   (B)   (1)    This section shall apply to the following:
         (a)   Any return required to be filed under applicable law for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016;
         (b)   Income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax required
to be paid or remitted to the Municipality on or after January 1, 2016 for
taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016.
      (2)    This section does not apply to returns required to be filed or
payments required to be made before January 1, 2016, regardless of the filing
or payment date. Returns required to be filed or payments required to be made
before January 1, 2016, but filed or paid after that date shall be subject to
the ordinances or rules,, as adopted from time to time before January 1, 2016
of this Municipality-:.
   (C)   The Municipality shall impose on a taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer, and any other payer, and will attempt to collect, the interest
amounts and penalties prescribed in this section when the taxpayer, employer,
any agent of the employer, or any other payer for any reason fails, in whole or
in part, to make to the Municipality timely and full payment or remittance of
income tax, estimated income tax, or withholding tax or to file timely with the
Municipality any return required to be filed.
      (1)   Interest shall be imposed at the rate defined as "interest rate as
described in division (A) of this section", per annum, on all unpaid income
tax, unpaid estimated income tax, and unpaid withholding tax. This imposition
of interest shall be assessed per month, or fraction of a month.
      (2)   With respect to unpaid income tax and unpaid estimated income tax,
a penalty equal to fifteen percent of the amount not timely paid shall be
imposed.
      (3)   With respect to any unpaid withholding tax, a penalty equal to
fifty percent of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (4)   With respect to returns other than estimated income tax returns,
the Municipality shall impose a monthly penalty of twenty-five dollars for each
failure to timely file each return, regardless of the liability shown thereon
for each month, or any fraction thereof, during which the return remains
untiled regardless of the liability shown thereon. The penalty shall not exceed
a total of one hundred fifty dollars in assessed penalty for each failure to
timely file a return.
   (D)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes, and returns, the Municipality shall not impose, seek to collect, or
collect any penalty, amount of interest, charges or additional fees not
described in this section.
   (E)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes, and returns, the Municipality shall not refund or credit any penalty,
amount of interest, charges, or additional fees that were properly imposed or
collected before January 1, 2016.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may, in the Tax Administrator's sole discretion,
abate or partially abate penalties or interest imposed under this section when
the Tax Administrator deems such abatement or partial abatement to be
appropriate. Such abatement or partial abatement shall be properly documented
and maintained on the record of the taxpayer who received benefit of such
abatement or partial abatement.
   (G)   The Municipality shall impose on the taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer, or any other payer the Municipality's post-judgment collection
costs and fees, including attorney's fees.
 
(Source: ORC 718.27)
148-1.11 AUDIT.
   (A)   At or before the commencement of an audit, as defined in Section
148-1.03 (3) of this Chapter, the Tax Administrator shall provide to the
taxpayer a written description of the roles of the Tax Administrator and of the
taxpayer during an audit and a statement of the taxpayer's rights, including
any right to obtain a refund of an overpayment of tax. At or before the
commencement of an audit, the Tax Administrator shall inform the taxpayer when
the audit is considered to have commenced.
   (B)   Except in cases involving suspected criminal activity, the Tax
Administrator shall conduct an audit of a taxpayer during regular business
hours and after providing reasonable notice to the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is
unable to comply with a proposed time for an audit on the grounds that the
proposed time would cause inconvenience or hardship must offer reasonable
alternative dates for the audit.
   (C)   At all stages of an audit by the Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is
entitled to be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant, bookkeeper,
or other tax practitioner. The Tax Administrator shall prescribe a form by
which a taxpayer may designate such a person to assist or represent the
taxpayer in the conduct of any proceedings resulting from actions by the Tax
Administrator. If a taxpayer has not submitted such a form, the Tax
Administrator may accept other evidence, as the Tax Administrator considers
appropriate, that a person is the authorized representative of a taxpayer.
   A taxpayer may refuse to answer any questions asked by the person conducting
an audit until the taxpayer has an opportunity to consult with the taxpayer's
attorney, accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner. This division does
not authorize the practice of law by a person who is not an attorney.
   (D)   A taxpayer may record, electronically or otherwise, the audit
examination.
   (E)   The failure of the Tax Administrator to comply with a provision of
this section shall neither excuse a taxpayer from payment of any taxes owed by
the taxpayer nor cure any procedural defect in a taxpayer's case.
   (F)   If the Tax Admini:,trator fails to substantially comply with the
provisions of this section, the Tax Administrator, upon application by the
taxpayer, shall excuse the taxpayer from penalties and interest arising from
the audit.
(Source: ORC 718.36)
148-1.12 ROUNDING.
   A person may round to the nearest whole dollar all amounts the person is
required to enter on any return, report, voucher, or other document required
under this chapter. Any fractional part of a dollar that equals or exceeds
fifty cents shall be rounded to the next whole dollar, and any fractional part
of a dollar that is less than fifty cents shall be dropped, rounding down to
the nearest whole dollar. If a person chooses to round amounts entered on a
document, the person shall round all amounts entered on the document.
(Source: ORC 718.25)
148-1.13 AUTHORITY AND POWERS OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
148-1.131 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS OF THE TAX
ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Tax Administrator has the authority to perform all duties and functions
necessary and appropriate to implement the provisions of this Chapter,
including without limitation:
   (A)    Exercise all powers whatsoever of an inquisitorial nature as provided
by law, including, the right to inspect books, accounts, records, memorandums,
and federal and state income tax returns, to examine persons under oath, to
issue orders or subpoenas for the production of books, accounts, papers,
records, documents, and testimony, to take depositions, to apply to a court for
attachment proceedings as for contempt, to approve vouchers for the fees of
officers and witnesses, and to administer oaths; provided that the powers
referred to in this division of this section shall be exercised by the Tax
Administrator only in connection with the performance of the duties
respectively assigned to the Tax Administrator under a municipal corporation
income tax ordinance or resolution adopted in accordance with this chapter;
   (B)   Appoint agents and prescribe their powers and duties;
   (C)   Confer and meet with officers of other municipal corporations and
states and officers of the United States on any matters pertaining to their
respective official duties as provided by law;
   (D)   Exercise the authority provided by law, including orders from
bankruptcy courts, relative to remitting or refunding taxes, including
penalties and interest thereon, illegally or erroneously imposed or collected,
or for any other reason overpaid, and, in addition, the Tax Administrator may
investigate any claim of overpayment and make a written statement of the Tax
Administrator's findings, and, if the Tax Administrator finds that there has
been an overpayment, approve and issue a refund payable to the taxpayer, the
taxpayer's assigns, or legal representative as provided in this chapter;
   (E)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to consenting to the
compromise and settlement of tax claims;
   (F)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to the use of
alternative apportionment methods by taxpayers in accordance with section
148-1.062  of this Chapter;
   (G)   Make all tax findings, determinations, computations, assessments and
orders the Tax Administrator is by law authorized and required to make and,
pursuant to time limitations provided by law, on the Tax Administrator's own
motion, review, redetermine, or correct any tax findings, determinations,
computations, assessments or orders the Tax Administrator has made, but the Tax
Administrator shall not review, redetermine, or correct any tax finding,
determination, computation, assessment or order which the Tax Administrator has
made for which an appeal has been filed with the Local Board of Tax Review or
other appropriate tribunal, unless such appeal or application is withdrawn by
the appellant or applicant, is dismissed, or is otherwise final;
   (H)   Destroy any or all returns or other tax documents in the manner
authorized by law;
   (I)   Enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to simplify the withholding
obligations described in section
148-1.051  of this Chapter.
      (Source: ORC 718.24)
148-1.132 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; COMPROMISE OF CLAIM AND PAYMENT OVER
TIME.
   (A)   As used in this section, "claim" means a claim for an amount payable
to the Municipality that arises pursuant to the municipal income tax imposed in
accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator may do either of the following if such action is
in the best interests of the Municipality:
      (1)   Compromise a claim;
      (2)   Extend for a reasonable period the time for payment of a claim by
agreeing to accept monthly or other periodic payments, upon such terms and
conditions as the Tax Administrator may require.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator's rejection of a compromise or payment-over-time
agreement proposed by a person with respect to a claim shall not be appealable.
   (D)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a. claim
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of only the parties to the
compromise or agreement, and shall not extinguish or otherwise affect the
liability of any other person.
   (E)   (1)    A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a
claim shall be void if the taxpayer defaults under the compromise or agreement
or if the compromise or agreement was obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation
of a material fact. Any amount that was due before the compromise or agreement
and that is unpaid shall remain due, and any penalties or interest that would
have accrued in the absence of the compromise or agreement shall continue to
accrue and be due.
      (2)    The Tax Administrator shall have sole discretion to determine
whether or not penalty, interest, charges or applicable fees will be assessed
through the duration of any compromise or payment-over-time agreement.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may require that the taxpayer provide detailed
financial documentation and information, in order to determine whether or not a
payment-over-time agreement will be authorized. The taxpayer's failure to
provide the necessary and required information by the Tax Administrator shall
preclude consideration of a payment-over-time agreement.
(Source: 718.28)
148-1.133 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; RIGHT TO EXAMINE.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator, or any authorized agent or employee thereof may
examine the books, papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns of
any employer, taxpayer, or other person that is subject to, or that the Tax
Administrator believes is subject to, the provisions of this Chapter for the
purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no return was
filed, to ascertain the tax due under this Chapter. Upon written request by the
Tax Administrator or a duly authorized agent or employee thereof, every
employer, taxpayer, or other person subject to this section is required to
furnish the opportunity for the Tax Administrator, authorized agent, or
employee to investigate and examine such books, papers, records, and federal
and state income tax returns at a reasonable time and place designated in the
request.
   (B)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer, employer, or other
person that is subject to, or that a Tax Administrator believes is subject to,
the provisions of this Chapter shall be open to the Tax Administrator's
inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a period of six
years following the end of the taxable year to which the records or documents
relate, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to their destruction
within that period, or by order requires that they be kept longer. The Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may require any person, by notice
served on that person, to keep such records as the Tax Administrator determines
necessary to show whether or not that person is liable, and the extent of such
liability, for the income tax levied by the Municipality or for the withholding
of such tax.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator may examine under oath any person that the Tax
Administrator reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that was
or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to affect
such income. The Tax Administrator may, for this purpose, compel any such
person to attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books, papers,
records, and federal and state income tax returns in such person's possession
or control. The person may be assisted or represented by an attorney,
accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner at any such hearing or
examination. This division does not authorize the practice of law by a person
who is not an attorney.
   (D)   No person issued written notice by the Tax Administrator compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records, or federal and state income tax returns under this section shall fail
to comply.
(Source: ORC 718.23)
148-1.134 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; REQUIRING IDENTIFYING INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator may require any person filing a tax document
with the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information, which may
include the person's social security number, federal employer identification
number, or other identification number requested by the Tax Administrator. A
person required by the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information
that has experienced any change with respect to that information shall notify
the Tax Administrator of the change before, or upon, filing the next tax
document requiring the identifying information.
   (B)   (1)    If the Tax Administrator makes a request for identifying
information and the Tax Administrator does not receive valid identifying
information within thirty days of making the request, nothing in this chapter
prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty upon the person to whom
the request was directed pursuant to section
148-1.10  of this Chapter, in addition to any applicable penalty described in
section
148-1.99  of this Chapter.
      (2)   If a person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information does not notify the Tax Administrator of a change with
respect to that information as required under division (A) of this section
within thirty days after filing the next tax document requiring such
identifying information, nothing in this chapter prohibits the Tax
Administrator from imposing a penalty pursuant to section
 148-1.10  of this Chapter.
      (3)   The penalties provided for under divisions (8)(1) and (2) of this
section may be billed and imposed in the same manner as the tax or fee with
respect to which the identifying information is sought and are in addition to
any applicable criminal penalties described in section
148-1.99 of this Chapter for a violation of
148-1.15  of this Chapter, and any other penalties that may be imposed by the
Tax Administrator by law.
(Source: ORC 718.26)
148-1.14 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings, or verifications required or authorized by ORC 718 or by the charter
or ordinance of the Municipality is confidential, and no person shall access or
disclose such information except in accordance with a proper judicial order or
in connection with the performance of that person's official duties or the
official business of the Municipality as authorized by ORC 718 or the charter
or ordinance authorizing the levy. The Tax Administrator of the Municipality or
a designee thereof may furnish copies of returns filed or otherwise received
under this chapter and other related tax_information to the Internal Revenue
Service, the State Tax Commissioner, and Tax Administrators of other municipal
corporations.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the Municipality from publishing or
disclosing statistics in a form that does not disclose information with respect
to particular taxpayers.
(Source: ORC 718.13)
148-1.15 FRAUD.
   No person shall knowingly make, present, aid, or assist in the preparation
or presentation of a false or fraudulent report, return, schedule, statement,
claim, or document authorized or required by municipal corporation ordinance or
state law to be filed with the Tax Administrator, or knowingly procure,
counsel, or advise the preparation or presentation of such report, return,
schedule, statement, claim, or document, or knowingly change, alter, or amend,
or knowingly procure, counsel or advise such change, alteration, or amendment
of the records upon which such report, return, schedule, statement, claim, or
document is based with intent to defraud the Municipality or the Tax
Administrator.
(Source: ORC 718.35)
148-1.16 OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   An "opinion of the Tax Administrator" means an opinion issued under
this section with respect to prospective municipal income tax liability. It
does not include ordinary correspondence of the Tax Administrator.
   (B)   A taxpayer may submit a written request for an opinion of the Tax
Administrator as to whether or how certain income, source of income, or a
certain activity or transaction will be taxed. The written response of the Tax
Administrator shall be an "opinion of the Tax Administrator" and shall bind the
Tax Administrator, in accordance with divisions (C), (G), and (H) of this
section, provided all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The taxpayer's request fully and accurately describes the specific
facts or circumstances relevant to a determination of the taxability of the
income, source of income, activity, or transaction, and, if an activity or
transaction, all parties involved in the activity or transaction are clearly
identified by name, location, or other pertinent facts.
      (2)   The request relates to a tax imposed by the Municipality in
accordance with this Chapter.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator's response is signed by the Tax Administrator
and designated as an "opinion of the Tax Administrator."
   (C)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator shall remain in effect and shall
protect the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and who reasonably
relies on it from liability for any taxes, penalty, or interest otherwise
chargeable on the activity or transaction specifically held by the Tax
Administrator's opinion to be taxable in a particular manner or not to be
subject to taxation for any taxable years that may be specified in the opinion,
or until the earliest of the following dates:
      (1)   The effective date of a written revocation by the Tax Administrator
sent to the taxpayer by certified mail, return receipt requested. The effective
date of the revocation shall be the taxpayer's date of receipt or one year
after the issuance of the opinion, whichever is later;
      (2)   The effective date of any amendment or enactment of a relevant
section of the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified state law, or the Municipality's
income tax ordinance that would substantially change the analysis and
conclusion of the opinion of the Tax Admlnistrator;
      (3)   The date on which a court issues an opinion establishing or
changing relevant case law with respect to the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified
state law, or the Municipality's income tax ordinance;
      (4)   If the opinion of the Tax Administrator was based on the
interpretation of federal law, the effective date of any change in the relevant
federal statutes or regulations, or the date on which a court issues an opinion
establishing or changing relevant case law with respect to federal statutes or
regulations;
      (5)   The effective date of any change in the taxpayer's material facts
or circumstances;
      (6)   The effective date of the expiration of the opinion, if specified
in the opinion.
   (D)   (1)   A taxpayer is not relieved of tax liability for any activity or
transaction related to a request for an opinion that contained any
misrepresentation or omission of one or more material facts.
      (2)    If the taxpayer knowingly has misrepresented the pertinent facts
or omitted material facts with intent to defraud the Municipality in order to
obtain a more favorable opinion, the taxpayer may be in violation of section
 148-1.15 of this Chapter.,.
   (E)   If a Tax Administrator provides written advice under this section, the
opinion shall include a statement that:
      (1)   The tax consequences stated in the opinion may be subject to change
for any of the reasons stated in division (C) of this section;
      (2)   It is the duty of the taxpayer to be aware of such changes.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may refuse to offer an opinion on any request
received under this section.
   (G)   This section binds a Tax Administrator only with respect to opinions
of the Tax Administrator issued on or after January 1, 2016.
   (H)   An opinion of a Tax Administrator binds that Tax Administrator only
with respect to the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and does not
bind the Tax Administrator of any other municipal corporation.
   (I)   A Tax Administrator shall make available the text of all opinions
issued under this section, except those opinions prepared for a taxpayer who
has requested that the text of the opinion remain confidential. In no event
shall the text of an opinion be made available until the Tax Administrator has
removed all information that identifies the taxpayer and any other parties
involved in the activity or transaction.
   (J)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator issued under this section or a
refusal to offer an opinion under subsection (F) may not be appealed.
(Source: ORC 718.38)
148-1.17 ASSESSMENT; APPEAL BASED ON PRESUMPTION OF DELIVERY.
   (A)   (1)    The Tax Administrator shall serve an assessment either by
personal service, by certified mail, or by a delivery service authorized under
section 5703.056 of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator may deliver the assessment through
alternative means as provided in this section, including, but not limited to,
delivery by secure electronic mail. Such alternative delivery method must be
authorized by the person subject to the assessment.
      (3)   Once service of the assessment has been made by the Tax
Administrator or other municipal official, or the designee of either, the
person to whom the assessment is directed may protest the ruling of that
assessment by filing an appeal with the Local Board of Tax Review within sixty
days after the receipt of service. The delivery of an assessment of the Tax
Administrator as prescribed in Section 718.18 of the Revised Code is prima
facie evidence that delivery is complete and that the assessment is served.
 
   (B)   (1)    A person may challenge the presumption of delivery and service
as set forth in this division. A person disputing the presumption of delivery
and service under this section bears the burden of proving by a preponderance
of the evidence that the address to which the assessment was sent was not an
address with which the person was associated at the time the Tax Administrator
originally mailed the assessment by certified mail. For the purposes of this
section, a person is associated with an address at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the assessment if, at that time, the person was
residing, receiving legal documents, or conducting business at the address; or
if, before that time, the person had conducted business at the address and,
when the assessment was mailed, the person's agent or the person's affiliate
was conducting business at the address. For the purposes of this section, a
person's affiliate is any other person that, at the time the assessment was
mailed, owned or controlled at least twenty per cent, as determined by voting
rights, of the addressee's business.
      (2)   If a person elects to appeal an assessment on the basis described
in division (B)(1) of this section, and if that assessment is subject to
collection and is not otherwise appealable, the person must do so within sixty
days after the initial contact by the Tax Administrator or other municipal
official, or the designee of either, with the person. Nothing in this division
prevents the Tax Administrator or other official from entering into a
compromise with the person if the person does not actually file such an appeal
with the Local Board of Tax Review.
(Source: ORC 718.18)
148-1.18 LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW; APPEAL TO LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)    The legislative authority of the Municipality shall maintain a
Local Board of Tax Review to hear appeals as provided in Ohio Revised Code
Chapter 718.
      (2)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall consist of three members. The
three members of the Local Board of Tax Review may be domiciled in the
Municipality, but the appointing authority may consider membership from
individuals who are not domiciled within the Municipality. Two members shall be
appointed by the legislative authority of the Municipality, and may not be
employees, elected officials, or contractors with the Municipality at any time
during their term or in the five years immediately preceding the date of
appointment. One member shall be appointed by the top administrative official
of the Municipality. This member may be an employee of the Municipality, but
may not be the director of finance or equivalent officer, or the Tax
Administrator or other similar official or an employee directly involved in
municipal tax matters, or any direct subordinate thereof.
      (3)   The term for members of the Local Board of Tax Review appointed by
the legislative authority of the Municipality shall be two years. There is no
limit on the number of terms that a member may serve should the member be
reappointed by the legislative authority. The board member appointed by the top
administrative official of the Municipality shall serve at the discretion of
the administrative official.
      (4)   Members of the board of tax review appointed by the legislative
authority may be removed by the legislative authority as set forth in Section
718.11(A)(4) of the Revised Code.
      (5)   A member of the board who, for any reason, ceases to meet the
qualifications for the position prescribed by this section shall resign
immediately by operation of law.
      (6)   A vacancy in an unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment within sixty days of when the vacancy was created.
Any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the
term for which the member's predecessor was appointed shall hold office for the
remainder of such term. No vacancy on the board shall impair the power and
authority of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the board.
      (7)   If a member is temporarily unable to serve on the board due to a
conflict of interest, illness, absence, or similar reason, the legislative
authority or top administrative official that appointed the member shall
appoint another individual to temporarily serve on the board in the member's
place. This appointment shall be subject to the same requirements and
limitations as are applicable to the appointment of the member temporarily
unable to serve.
      (8)   INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.
      (9)   INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.
   (B)   Whenever a Tax Administrator issues an assessment, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the taxpayer in writing at the same time of the
taxpayer's right to appeal the assessment, the manner in which the taxpayer may
appeal the assessment, and the address to which the appeal should be directed,
and to whom the appeal should be directed.
   (C)   Any person who has been issued an assessment may appeal the assessment
to the board by filing a request with the board. The request shall be in
writing, shall specify the reason or reasons why the assessment should be
deemed incorcect or unlawfulJ. and shall be filed within sixty days after the
taxpayer receives the assessment.
   (D)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall schedule a hearing to be held
within sixty days after receiving an appeal of an assessment under division (C)
of this section, unless the taxpayer requests additional time to prepare or
waives a hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may
appear before the board and/or may be represented by an attorney at law,
certified public accountant, or other representative. The board may allow a
hearing to be continued as jointly agreed to by the parties. In such a case,
the hearing must be completed within one hundred twenty days after the first
day of the hearing unless the parties agree otherwise.
   (E)   The board may affirm, reverse, or modify the Tax Administrator's
assessment or any part of that assessment. The board shall issue a final
determination on the appeal within ninety days after the board's final hearing
on the appeal, and send a copy of its final determination by ordinary mail to
all of the parties to the appeal within fifteen days after issuing the final
determination. The taxpayer or the Tax Administrator may appeal the board's
final determination as provided in section 5717.011 of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (F)   The Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section shall
adopt rules governing its procedures, including a schedule of related costs,
and shall keep a record of its transactions. The rules governing the Local
Board of Tax Review procedures shall be in writing, and may be amended as
needed by the Local Board of Tax Review. Such records are not public records
available for inspection under section 149.43 of the Ohio Revised Code. For
this reason, any documentation, copies of returns or reports, final
determinations, or working papers for each case must be maintained in a secure
location under the control of the Tax Administrator. No member of the Local
Board of Tax Review may remove such documentation, copies of returns or
reports, final determinations, or working papers from the hearing. Hearings
requested by a taxpayer before a Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to
this section are not meetings of a public body subject to section 121.22 of the
Ohio Revised Code. For this reason, such hearings shall not be open to the
public, and only those parties to the case may be present during the hearing.
(Source: ORC 718.11)
148-1.19 ACTIONS TO RECOVER; STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and
penalties and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within the
latter of:
            (i)   Three years after the tax was due or the return was filed,
whichever is later; or
             (ii)   One year after the conclusion of the qualifying deferral
period, if any.
         (b)   The time limit described in division (A)(1)(a) of this section
may be extended at any time if both the Tax Administrator and the employer,
agent of the employer, other payer, or taxpayer consent in writing to the
extension. Any extension shall also extend for the same period of time the time
limit described in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   As used in this section, "qualifying deferral period" means a
period of time beginning and ending as follows:
         (a)   Beginning on the date a person who is aggrieved by an assessment
files with a Local Board of Tax Review the request described in Section
148-1.18  of this Chapter. That date shall not be affected by any subsequent
decision, finding, or holding by any administrative body or court that the
Local Board of Tax Review with which the aggrieved person filed the request did
not have jurisdiction to affirm, reverse, or modify the assessment or any part
of that assessment.
         (b)   Ending the later of the sixtieth day after the date on which the
final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review becomes final or, if any
party appeals from the determination of the Local Board of Tax Review, the
sixtieth day after the date on which the final determination of the Local Board
of Tax Review is either ultimately affirmed in whole or in part or ultimately
reversed and no further appeal of either that affirmation, in whole or in part,
or that reversal is available or taken.
   (B)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under a resolution or
ordinance imposing an income tax shall be commenced within three years after
the commission of the offense, provided that in the case of fraud, failure to
file a return, or the omission of twenty-five per cent or more of income
required to be reported, prosecutions may be commenced within six years after
the commission of the offense.
   (C)   A claim for a refund of municipal income taxes shall be brought within
the time limitation provided in Section
148-1.096  of this Chapter.
   (D)   (1)   Notwithstanding the fact that an appeal is pending, the
petitioner may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the appeal. The acceptance of a payment by the Municipality does not prejudice
any claim for refund upon final determination of the appeal.
      (2)    If upon final determination of the appeal an error in the
assessment is corrected by the Tax Administrator, upon an appeal so filed or
pursuant to a final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review created
under Section
148-1.18 of this Chapter, of the Ohio board of tax appeals, or any court to
which the decision of the Ohio board of tax appeals has been appealed, so that
the amount due from the party assessed under the corrected assessment is less
than the amount paid, there shall be issued to the appellant or to the
appellant's assigns or legal representative a refund in the amount of the
overpayment as provided by Section
148-1.096 of this Chapter, with interest on that amount as provided by division
(D) of this section.
   (E)   No civil action to recover municipal income tax or related penalties
or interest shall be brought during either of the following time periods:
      (1)   The period during which a taxpayer has a right to appeal the
imposition of that tax or interest or those penalties;
      (2)   The period during which an appeal related to the imposition of that
tax or interest or those penalties is pending.
   (F)   The Law Director or the Law Director's designee shall have the power
to compromise any civil matter arising under this tax ordinance.
(Source: ORG 718.12)
148-1.20 ADOPTION OF RULES.
   (A)   Pursuant to Section 718.30 of the Revised Code, the Municipality,
pursuant to this Chapter, grants authority to the Tax Administrator, to adopt
rules to administer the income tax imposed by the Municipality.
   (B)   All rules adopted under this section shall be published and posted on
the internet.
(Source: ORC 718.30)
148-1.21 OPTIONAL PROCEDURES FOR NET PROFIT TAXES.
148-1.21.1 FILING NET PROFIT TAXES; ELECTION TO BE SUBJECT TO PROVISIONS OF
CHAPTER.
   (A)   A taxpayer may elect to be subject to sections
148-1.21.1  to
148-1.21.16  of the Codified Ordinances in lieu of the provisions set forth in
the remainder of this chapter. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
chapter, upon the taxpayer's election, both of the following shall apply:
      (1)   The state tax commissioner shall serve as the sole administrator of
the municipal net profit tax for which the taxpayer as defined in 1
48-1.21.2 (C) of the Codified Ordinances is liable for the term of the
election;
      (2)   The commissioner shall administer the tax pursuant to sections
718.80 to 718.95 of the Revised Code, sections
148-1.21.1  to
148-1.21.16 of the Codified Ordinances, and any applicable provision of Chapter
5703 of the Revised Code.
   (B)   (1)   A taxpayer shall make the initial election on or before the
first day of the third month after the beginning of the taxpayer's taxable year
by notifying the tax commissioner and the City, on a form prescribed by the tax
commissioner.
      (2)   (a)   The election, once made by the taxpayer, applies to the
taxable year in which the election is made and to each subsequent taxable year
until the taxpayer notifies the tax commissioner and the City of its
termination of the election.
         (b)   A notification of termination shall be made, on a form
prescribed by the tax commissioner, on or before the first day of the third
month of any taxable year.
         (c)   Upon a timely and valid termination of the election, the
taxpayer is no longer subject to sections
 148-1.21.1  to
148-1.21.16  of the Codified Ordinances, and is instead subject to the
provisions set forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (C)   The tax commissioner shall enforce and administer sections
 148-1.21.1  to
148-1.21.16  of the Codified Ordinances. In addition to any other powers
conferred upon the tax commissioner by law, the tax commissioner may:
      (1)   Prescribe all forms necessary to administer those sections;
      (2)   Adopt such rules as the tax commissioner finds necessary to carry
out those sections;
      (3)   Appoint and employ such personnel as are necessary to carry out the
duties imposed upon the tax commissioner by those sections.
   (D)   The tax commissioner shall not be considered a tax administrator, as
that term is defined in section 718.01 of the Revised Code and Section
148-1.03 of the City Codified Ordinances.
148-1.21.2 DEFINITIONS.
   If a term used in sections
148-1.21.1  to
148-1.21.16  of the Codified Ordinances that is not otherwise defined in this
chapter is used in a comparable context in both the laws of the United States
relating to federal income tax and in Title LVII of the Revised Code and the
use is not consistent, then the use of the term in the laws of the United
States relating to federal income tax shall have control over the use of the
term in Title LVII of the Revised Code, unless the term is defined in Chapter
5703. of the Revised Code, in which case the definition in that chapter shall
control. Any reference in this chapter to the Internal Revenue Code includes
other laws of the United States related to federal income taxes. If a term is
defined in both this section and section
148-1.03  of the Codified Ordinances, the definition in this section shall
control for all uses of that term in sections
148-1.21.1 to
148-1.21.16 of the Codified Ordinances.
   As used in sections
 148-1.21.1  to
148-1.21.16 o f the Codified Ordinances only:
   (A)   "Municipal taxable income" means income apportioned or sitused to the
municipal corporation under section
 148-1.21.3  of the Codified Ordinances, as applicable, reduced by any pre-2017
net operating loss carryforward available to the person for the municipal
corporation.
   (B)   "Adjusted federal taxable income," for a person required to file as a
C corporation, or for a person that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation
as described in division (D)(5) of section 718.01 of the Revised Code and
section
148-1.03 of the Codified Ordinances, means a C corporation's federal taxable
income before net operating losses and special deductions as determined under
the Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal taxable
income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the intangible
income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held for the
production of income.
      (2)   Add an amount equal to five per cent of intangible income deducted
under division (B)(1) of this section, but excluding that portion of intangible
income directly related to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of property
described in section 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (3)   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal
taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other
disposition of an asset described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal
Revenue Code.
       (4)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(4)(b) of this section,
deduct income and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the
income and gain directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of
an asset described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (b)   Division (B)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to the extent
the income or gain is income or gain described in section 1245 or 1250 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
      (5)   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income.
      (6)   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to, or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and
allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income.
      (7)   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under section 4313.02
of the Revised Code.
      (8)   Deduct exempt income to the extent not otherwise deducted or
excluded in computing adjusted federal taxable income.
      (9)   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group's federal taxable income in accordance with division (E)(3)(b) of
section
148-1.21.7 of the Codified Ordinances.
      (10)   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in the
group's federal taxable income in accordance with division (E)(3)(b) of section
148-1.21.7  of the Codified Ordinances.
If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded entity that has
made the election described in division (47)(B) of sectio
n 148-1.03 of the Codified Ordinances, and is not a publicly traded partnership
that has made the election described in division (23)(D) of section
 148-1.03  of the Codified Ordinances, the taxpayer shall compute adjusted
federal taxable income under this section as if the taxpayer were a C
corporation, except guaranteed payments and other similar amounts paid or
accrued to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member,
or former member shall not be allowed as a deductible expense unless such
payments are in consideration for the use of capital and treated as payment of
interest under section 469 of the Internal Revenue Code or United States
treasury regulations. Amounts paid or accrued to a qualified self-employed
retirement plan with respect to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former
shareholder, member, or former member of the taxpayer, amounts paid or accrued
to or for health insurance for a partner, former partner, shareholder, former
shareholder, member, or former member, and amounts paid or accrued to or for
life insurance for a partner, former partner, shareholder, former shareholder,
member, or former member shall not be allowed as a deduction.
Nothing in division (B) of this section shall be construed as allowing the
taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be construed as
allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for purposes of
federal self-employment tax.
   (C)   "Taxpayer" has the same meaning as in section
 148-1.03( 47) of the Codified Ordinances, except that "taxpayer" does not
include natural persons or entities subject to the tax imposed under Chapter
5745. of the Revised Code. "Taxpayer" may include receivers, assignees, or
trustees in bankruptcy when such persons are required to assume the role of a
taxpayer.
   (D)   "Tax return" or "return" means the notifications and reports required
to be filed pursuant to sections
148-1.21.1  to
148-1.21.16 of the Codified Ordinances for the purpose of reporting municipal
income taxes, and includes declarations of estimated tax.
   (E)   "Taxable year" means the calendar year or the taxpayer's fiscal year
ending during the calendar year, or fractional part thereof, upon which the
calculation of the taxpayer's adjusted federal taxable income is based pursuant
to this chapter. If a taxpayer's taxable year is changed for federal income tax
purposes, the taxable year for purposes of sections
148-1.21.1  to
148-1.21.16  of the Codified Ordinances is changed accordingly but may consist
of an aggregation of more than one taxable year for federal income tax
purposes. The tax commissioner may prescribe by rule an appropriate period as
the taxable year for a taxpayer that has had a change of its taxable year for
federal income tax purposes, for a taxpayer that has two or more short taxable
years for federal income tax purposes as the result of a change of ownership,
or for a new taxpayer that would otherwise have no taxable year.
   (F)   "Assessment" means a notice of underpayment or nonpayment of a tax
issued pursuant to section
148-1.21.11  of the Codified Ordinances.
148-1.21.3 APPLICABILITY; TAXABLE SITUS; APPORTIONMENT.
   This section applies to any taxpayer that is engaged in a business or
profession in the City and that has made the election under section
 148-1.21.1  of the Codified Ordinances.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, net
profit from a business or profession conducted both within and without the
boundaries of the City shall be considered as having a taxable situs in the
City for purposes of municipal income taxation in the same proportion as the
average ratio of the following:
      (1)   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the City during the taxable period to the average original cost of all of
the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the
business or profession during the same period, wherever situated.
As used in the preceding paragraph, tangible personal or real property shall
include property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the value of such
property shall be determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon by eight;
       (2)   Wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the City to wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during
the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession, wherever
the individual's services are performed, excluding compensation from which
taxes are not required to be withheld under section
148-1.052  of the Codified Ordinances;
      (3)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales and
rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the City to
total gross receipts of the business or profession during the same period from
sales, rentals, and services, wherever made or performed.
   (B)   (1)   If the apportionment factors described in division (A) of this
section do not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer's business activity in
the City, the taxpayer may request, or the tax commissioner may require, that
the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any portion of the income of the
taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method involving one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Separate accounting;
         (b)   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
         (c)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipal corporation;
         (d)   A modification of one or more of the factors.
      (2)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method shall
be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment, or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the tax commissioner denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by division (A) of section
 148-1.21.11 of the Codified Ordinances.
      (3)   The tax commissioner may require a taxpayer to use an alternative
apportionment method as described in division (B)(1) of this section only by
issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the period prescribed by division
(A) of section
 148-1.21.11  of the Codified Ordinances.
   (C)   As used in division (A)(2) of this section, "wages, salaries, and
other compensation" includes only wages, salaries, or other compensation paid
to an employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
      (1)   A location that is owned, controlled, or used by, rented to, or
under the possession of one of the following:
         (a)   The employer;
         (b)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client, or patient;
          (c)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of a person described in
division (C)(1)(b) of this section, or a related member of such a vendor,
customer, client, or patient.
      (2)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court- martial, or similar administrative, judicial, or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee's presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer;
      (3)   Any other location, if the tax commissioner determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (C)(1) or (2) of this section solely
in order to avoid or reduce the employer's municipal income tax liability. If
the tax commissioner makes such a determination, the employer may dispute the
determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the tax
commissioner's determination was unreasonable.
   (D)   For the purposes of division (A)(3) of this section, receipts from
sales and rentals made and services performed shall be sitused to the City as
follows:
      (1)   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall be
sitused to the City only if, regardless of where title passes, the property
meets either of the following criteria:
         (a)   The property is shipped to or delivered within the City from a
stock of goods located within the City.
         (b)   The property is delivered within the City from a location
outside the City, provided the taxpayer is regularly engaged through its own
employees in the solicitation or promotion of sales within the City and the
sales result from such solicitation or promotion.
      (2)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
City to the extent that such services are performed in the City.
      (3)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale of
real property located in the City shall be sitused to the City.
      (4)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the City shall be sitused to the City.
      (5)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the City based upon the extent to which the
tangible personal property is used in the City.
   (E)   Commissions received by a real estate agent or broker relating to the
sale, purchase, or lease of real estate shall be sitused to the City in which
the real estate is located. Net profit reported by the real estate agent or
broker shall be allocated to the City based upon the ratio of the commissions
the agent or broker received from the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate
located in the City to the commissions received from the sale, purchase, or
lease of real estate everywhere in the taxable year.
    (F)   If, in computing a taxpayer's adjusted federal taxable income, the
taxpayer deducted any amount with respect to a stock option granted to an
employee, and if the employee is not required to include in the employee's
income any such amount or a portion thereof because it is exempted from
taxation under divisions (11)(L) and (34)(A)(iv) of section
148-1.03  of the Codified Ordinances by the City or substantially similar
provision of the codified ordinances of another municipal corporation, the
taxpayer shall add the amount that is exempt from taxation to the taxpayer's
net profit that was apportioned to the City. In no case shall a taxpayer be
required to add to its net profit that was apportioned to the City any amount
other than the amount upon which the employee would be required to pay tax were
the amount related to the stock option not exempted from taxation.
This division applies solely for the purpose of making an adjustment to the
amount of a taxpayer's net profit that was apportioned to the City under this
section.
   (G)   When calculating the ratios described in division (A) of this section
for the purposes of that division or division (B) of this section, the owner of
a disregarded entity shall include in the owner's ratios the property, payroll,
and gross receipts of such disregarded entity.
148-1.21.4 INFORMATION PROVIDED TO TAX ADMINISTRATORS; CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings, or verifications required or authorized by sections
 148-1.21.1 to
148-1.21.16  of the Codified Ordinances is confidential, and no person shall
disclose such information, except for official purposes, in accordance with a
proper judicial order, or as provided in section 4123.271 or 5703.21 of the
Revised Code. The tax commissioner may furnish the internal revenue service
with copies of returns filed. This section does not prohibit the publication of
statistics in a form which does not disclose information with respect to
particular taxpayers.
   
   (B)   In May and November of each year, the tax commissioner shall provide
the City tax administrator with the following information for every taxpayer
that filed tax returns with the commissioner under sections
148-1.21.1  to
 148-1.21.16  of the Codified Ordinances and that had municipal taxable income
apportionable to the City under this chapter for any prior year:
      (1)   The taxpayer's name, address, and federal employer identification
number;
      (2)   The taxpayer's apportionment ratio for, and amount of municipal
taxable income apportionable to, the City pursuant to section
148-1.21.3  of the Codified Ordinances;
      (3)   The amount of any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward utilized
by the taxpayer;
      (4)   Whether the taxpayer requested that any overpayment be carried
forward to a future taxable year;
      (5)   The amount of any credit claimed under section 718.94 of the
Revised Code.
   (C)   Not later than thirty days after each distribution made to municipal
corporations under section 718.83 of the Revised Code, the tax commissioner
shall provide to the City a report stating the name and federal identification
number of every taxpayer that made estimated payments that are attributable to
the City and the amount of each such taxpayer's estimated payment.
 
   (D)   The information described under divisions (B) and (C) of this section
shall be provided to the individual or individuals designated by the City tax
administrator under section 718.83(D) of the Revised Code.
   (E)   (1)   The City expects that the tax commissioner will, pursuant to
section 718.84(E) of the Revised Code, provide tax returns and other
information it receives in the performance of its administration of the
municipal net profits tax for taxpayers making the election provided in section
 148-1.21.1  of the Codified Ordinances. The tax administrator shall review
these returns and information, as well as the information received pursuant to
divisions (B) and (C) of this section, and has discretion to refer any taxpayer
for audit by the tax commissioner. Such referral shall be made on a form
prescribed by the commissioner and shall include any information that forms the
basis for the referral.
      (2)   if the tax commissioner declines to audit a taxpayer referred by
the tax administrator under this section, the City reserves its right to pursue
any and all remedies, whether at law or in equity, to ensure that the correct
tax liability has been calculated and paid by the taxpayer.
148-1.21.5 FILING OF ANNUAL RETURN; REMITTANCE; DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   For each taxable year, every taxpayer shall file an annual
return. Such return, along with the amount of tax shown to be due on the return
less the amount paid for the taxable year under section
148-1.21.9  of the Codified Ordinances, shall be submitted to the tax
commissioner, on a form and in the manner prescribed by the commissioner, on or
before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the end of the
taxpayer's taxable year.
      (2)   If a taxpayer has multiple taxable years ending within one calendar
year, the taxpayer shall aggregate the facts and figures necessary to compute
the tax due under this chapter, in accordance with sections
 148-1.21.2,  
148-1.21.3 , and, if applicable,
148-1.21.7  of the Codified Ordinances onto its annual return.
      (3)   The remittance shall be made payable to the treasurer of state and
in the form prescribed by the tax commissioner. If the amount payable with the
tax return is ten dollars or less, no remittance is required.
   (B)   (1)   Each return required to be filed under this section shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer's duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer, and shall include
the taxpayer's identification number. Each return shall be verified by a
declaration under penalty of perjury.
      (2)   (a)   The tax commissioner may require a taxpayer to include, with
each annual tax return, amended return, or request for refund filed with the
commissioner under sections
148-1.21.1  to
 148-1.21.16  of the Codified Ordinances, copies of any relevant documents or
other information.
         (b)   A taxpayer that files an annual tax return electronically
through the Ohio business gateway or in another manner as prescribed by the tax
commissioner shall either submit the documents required under this division
electronically as prescribed at the time of filing or, if electronic submission
is not available, mail the documents to the tax commissioner. The department of
taxation shall publish a method of electronically submitting the documents
required under this division on or before January 1, 2019.
      (3)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the tax commissioner may
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements, or
documents required to determine and verify the taxpayer's municipal income tax.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic
extension for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of a tax return with the
commissioner under this section. The extended due date of the return shall be
the fifteenth day of the tenth month after the last day of the taxable year to
which the return relates.
         (b)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month
extension for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return may request that
the commissioner grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of the date for
filing the taxpayer's municipal income tax return. If the commissioner receives
the request on or before the date the municipal income tax return is due, the
commissioner shall grant the taxpayer's extension request.
         (c)   An extension of time to file under division (D)(1) of this
section is not an extension of the time to pay any tax due unless the tax
commissioner grants an extension of that date.
      (2)   If the commissioner considers it necessary in order to ensure
payment of a tax imposed in accordance with sections
148-1.011  and
148-1.012 of the Codified Ordinances, the commissioner may require taxpayers to
file returns and make payments otherwise than as provided in this section,
including taxpayers not otherwise required to file annual returns.
   
   (E)   Each return required to be filed in accordance with this section shall
include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize another person,
including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to communicate with
the tax commissioner about matters pertaining to the return. The return or
instructions accompanying the return shall indicate that by checking the box
the taxpayer authorizes the commissioner to contact the preparer or other
person concerning questions that arise during the examination or other review
of the return and authorizes the preparer or other person only to provide the
commissioner with information that is missing from the return, to contact the
commissioner for information about the examination or other review of the
return or the status of the taxpayer's refund or payments, and to respond to
notices about mathematical errors, offsets, or return preparation that the
taxpayer has received from the commissioner and has shown to the preparer or
other person.
   (F)   When income tax returns or other documents require the signature of a
tax return preparer, the tax commissioner shall accept a facsimile or
electronic version of such a signature in lieu of a manual signature.
148-1.21.6 ELECTRONIC FILING.
   (A)   All taxpayers that have made the election allowed under section
148-1.21.1  of the Codified Ordinances shall file any tax return or extension
for filing a tax return, and shall make payment of amounts shown to be due on
such returns, electronically, either through the Ohio business gateway or in
another manner as prescribed by the tax commissioner.
   (B)   A taxpayer may apply to the commissioner, on a form prescribed by the
commissioner, to be excused from the requirement to file returns and make
payments electronically. For good cause shown, the commissioner may excuse the
applicant from the requirement and permit the applicant to file the returns or
make the payments by nonelectronic means.
   (C)   The tax commissioner may adopt rules establishing the following:
      (1)   The format of documents to be used by taxpayers to file returns and
make payments by electronic means;
      (2)   The information taxpayers must submit when filing tax returns by
electronic means.
148-1.21.7 CONSOLIDATED RETURNS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Affiliated group of corporations" means an affiliated group as
defined in section 1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, except that, if such a
group includes at least one incumbent local exchange carrier that is primarily
engaged in the business of providing local exchange telephone service in this
state, the affiliated group shall not include any incumbent local exchange
carrier that would otherwise be included in the group.
      (2)   "Consolidated federal income tax return" means a consolidated
return filed for federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 1501 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
      (3)   "Consolidated federal taxable income" means the consolidated
taxable income of an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the
purposes of filing a consolidated federal income tax return, before
consideration of net operating losses or special deductions. "Consolidated
federal taxable income" does not include income or loss of an incumbent local
exchange carrier that is excluded from the affiliated group under division (A)
(1) of this section.
      (4)   "Incumbent local exchange carrier" has the same meaning as in
section 4927.01 of the Revised Code.
      (5)   "Local exchange telephone service" has the same meaning as in
section 5727.01 of the Revised Code.
   (B)   (1)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of
corporations may elect to file a consolidated tax return for a taxable year if
at least one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to
municipal income tax in that taxable year and if the affiliated group of
corporations filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to
that taxable year. The election is binding for a five-year period beginning
with the first taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the
reporting method is required under federal law. The election continues to be
binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing consolidated tax returns under division (B)(2) of this
section or a taxpayer receives permission from the tax commissioner. The tax
commissioner shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
      (2)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated tax returns under
this section must be made on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of
the year following the last year of a five-year consolidated tax return
election period in effect under division (B)(1) of this section. The election
to discontinue filing a consolidated tax return is binding for a five- year
period beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
      (3)   An election made under division (B)(1) or (2) of this section is
binding on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a
municipal income tax.
      (4)   When a taxpayer makes the election allowed under section
 148-1.21.1 of the Codified Ordinances, a valid election made by the taxpayer
under division (B)(1) or (2) of section
148-1.063  of the Codified Ordinances is binding upon the tax commissioner for
the remainder of the five-year period.
      (5)   When an election made under sectio
n 148-1.21.1  of the Codified Ordinances is terminated, a valid election made
under this section is binding upon the tax administrator for the remainder of
the five-year period.
   (C)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated tax return for that taxable year if the tax commissioner
determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that intercompany transactions
have not been conducted at arm's length and that there has been a distortive
shifting of income or expenses with regard to allocation of net profits to a
municipal corporation. A taxpayer that is required to file a consolidated tax
return for a taxable year shall file a consolidated tax return for all
subsequent taxable years unless the taxpayer requests and receives written
permission from the commissioner to file a separate return or a taxpayer has
experienced a change in circumstances.
   (D)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated tax return in the same manner
as is required under the United States department of treasury regulations that
prescribe procedures for the preparation of the consolidated federal income tax
return required to be filed by the common parent of the affiliated group of
which the taxpayer is a member.
 
   (E)   (1)    Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2), (3), and (4)
of this section, corporations that file a consolidated tax return shall compute
adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in section
148-1.21.2 of the Codified Ordinances, by substituting "consolidated federal
taxable income" for "federal taxable income" wherever "federal taxable income"
appears in that division and by substituting "an affiliated group of
corporation's" for "a C corporation's" wherever "a C corporation's" appears in
that division.
      (2)   No corporation filing a consolidated tax return shall make any
adjustment otherwise required under division (B) of section
148-1.21.2 of the Codified Ordinances to the extent that the item of income or
deduction otherwise subject to the adjustment has been eliminated or
consolidated in the computation of consolidated federal taxable income.
      (3)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at least
eighty per cent of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled,
directly or indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in
that affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year,
the corporation filing a consolidated tax return shall do one of the following
with respect to that pass-through entity's net profit or loss for that taxable
year:
         (a)   Exclude the pass-through entity's net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in section
148-1.21.3 o f the Codified Ordinances, exclude the property, payroll, and
gross receipts of the pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated
group's net profit sitused to a municipal corporation. If the entity's net
profit or loss is so excluded, the entity shall be subject to taxation as a
separate taxpayer on the basis of the entity's net profits that would otherwise
be included in the consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
         (b)   Include the pass-through entity's net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in section
 148-1.21.3  of the Codified Ordinances, include the property, payroll, and
gross receipts of the pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated
group's net profit sitused to a municipal corporation. If the entity's net
profit or loss is so included, the entity shall not be subject to taxation as a
separate taxpayer on the basis of the entity's net profits that are included in
the consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
      (4)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less than
eighty per cent of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled,
directly or indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in
that affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year,
all of the following shall apply:
         (a)   The corporation filing the consolidated tax return shall exclude
the pass- through entity's net profit or loss from the consolidated federal
taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the purposes of making the
computations required in section
148-1.21.3  of the Codified Ordinances, exclude the property, payroll, and
gross receipts of the pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated
group's net profit sitused to a municipal corporation;
          (b)   The pass-through entity shall be subject to municipal income
taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with sections
148-1.21.1  to
148-1.21.16 of the Codified Ordinances on the basis of the entity's net profits
that would otherwise be included in the consolidated federal taxable income of
the affiliated group.
   (F)   Corporations filing a consolidated tax return shall make the
computations required under section
148-1.21.3  of the Codified Ordinances by substituting "consolidated federal
taxable income attributable to" for "net profit from" wherever "net profit
from" appears in that section and by substituting "affiliated group of
corporations" for "taxpayer" wherever "taxpayer" appears in that section.
   (G)   Each corporation filing a consolidated tax return is jointly and
severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines, charges, or other
amounts applicable under section
148-1.21.1 to
 148-1.21.16  of the Codified Ordinances or Chapter 5703. of the Revised Code
to the corporation, an affiliated group of which the corporation is a member
for any portion of the taxable year, or any one or more members of such an
affiliated group.
148-1.21.8 FAILURE TO PAY TAX.
   If a taxpayer that has made the election allowed under
 148-1.21.1 of the Codified Ordinances fails to pay any tax as required under
section
s 148-1.21.1  to
 148-1.21.16  of the Codified Ordinances, or any portion of that tax, on or
before the date prescribed for its payment, interest shall be assessed,
collected, and paid, in the same manner as the tax, upon such unpaid amount at
the rate per annum prescribed by section 5703.47 of the Revised Code from the
date prescribed for its payment until it is paid or until the date an
assessment is issued under section 1
48-1.21.11  of the Codified Ordinances, whichever occurs first.
148-1.21.9 DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED TAXES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Combined tax liability" means the total amount of a taxpayer's
income tax liabilities to all municipal corporations in this state for a
taxable year.
      (2)   "Estimated taxes" means the amount that the taxpayer reasonably
estimates to be the taxpayer's combined tax liability for the current taxable
year.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) of this section, every
taxpayer shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for the current taxable
year, on the form prescribed by the tax commissioner, if the amount payable as
estimated taxes is at least two hundred dollars.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) of this section, a taxpayer
having a taxable year of less than twelve months shall make a declaration under
rules prescribed by the commissioner.
       (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
fifteenth day of the fourth month after the beginning of the taxable year or on
or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the taxpayer becomes
subject to tax for the first time.
      (4)   The tax commissioner may waive the requirement for filing a
declaration of estimated taxes for any class of taxpayers after finding that
the waiver is reasonable and proper in view of administrative costs and other
factors.
   (C)   Each taxpayer shall file the declaration of estimated taxes with, and
remit estimated taxes to, the tax commissioner at the times and in the amounts
prescribed in division (C)(1) of this section. Remitted taxes shall be made
payable to the treasurer of state.
      (1)   The required portion of the combined tax liability for the taxable
year that shall be paid through estimated taxes shall be as follows:
         (a)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, twenty-two and one-half per cent of the combined
tax liability for the taxable year;
         (b)   On or before the fifteenth day of the sixth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, forty-five per cent of the combined tax
liability for the taxable year;
         (c)   On or before the fifteenth day of the ninth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, sixty-seven and one-half per cent of the
combined tax liability for the taxable year;
         (d)   On or before the fifteenth day of the twelfth month of the
taxable year, ninety per cent of the combined tax liability for the taxable
year.
      (2)   If the taxpayer determines that its declaration of estimated taxes
will not accurately reflect the taxpayer's tax liability for the taxable year,
the taxpayer shall increase or decrease, as appropriate, its subsequent
payments in equal installments to result in a more accurate payment of
estimated taxes.
      (3)   (a)   Each taxpayer shall report on the declaration of estimated
taxes the portion of the remittance that the taxpayer estimates that it owes to
each municipal corporation for the taxable year.
         (b)   Upon receiving a payment of estimated taxes under this section,
the commissioner shall immediately forward the payment to the treasurer of
state. The treasurer shall credit the payment in the same manner as in division
(B) of section 718.85 of the Revised Code.
 
   (D)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of estimated taxes, there shall
be added to the taxes an amount determined at the rate per annum prescribed by
section 5703.47 of the Revised Code upon the amount of underpayment for the
period of underpayment, unless the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as
described in division (E) of this section. The amount of the underpayment shall
be determined as follows:
         (a)   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, twenty-two
and one-half per cent of the combined tax liability, less the amount of taxes
paid by the date prescribed for that payment;
         (b)   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, forty-five
per cent of the combined tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the
date prescribed for that payment;   
         (c)   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, sixty-seven
and one-half per cent of the combined tax liability, less the amount of taxes
paid by the date prescribed for that payment;
         (d)   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, ninety per
cent of the combined tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date
prescribed for that payment.
      (2)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or before any payment
date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to the
extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently due.
      (3)   All amounts collected under this section shall be considered as
taxes collected under sections
 148-1.21.1 to
148-1.21.16  of the Codified Ordinances and shall be credited and distributed
to municipal corporations in accordance with section 718.83 of the Revised
Code.
   (E)   An underpayment of any portion of a combined tax liability shall be
due to reasonable cause and the penalty imposed by this section shall not be
added to the taxes for the taxable year if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least ninety
per cent of the combined tax liability for the current taxable year, determined
by annualizing the income received during the year up to the end of the month
immediately preceding the month in which the payment is due.
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least one
hundred per cent of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for
the preceding taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable
year reflected a period of twelve months and the taxpayer filed a municipal
income tax return for that year.
 
148-1.21.10 ADDITIONAL PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to any other penalty imposed by sectio
ns 148-1.21.1  to
148-1.21.16 o f the Codified Ordinances or Chapter 5703 of the Revised Code,
the following penalties shall apply:
      (1)   If a taxpayer required to file a tax return under sections
148-1.21.1  to
 148-1.21.16 o f the Codified Ordinances fails to make and file the return
within the time prescribed, including any extensions of time granted by the tax
commissioner, the commissioner may impose a penalty not exceeding twenty-five
dollars per month or fraction of a month, for each month or fraction of a month
elapsing between the due date, including extensions of the due date, and the
date on which the return is filed. The aggregate penalty, per instance, under
this division shall not exceed one hundred fifty dollars.
      (2)   If a person required to file a tax return electronically under
sections
148-1.21.1  to
148-1.21.16  of the Codified Ordinances fails to do so, the commissioner may
impose a penalty not to exceed the following:
         (a)   For each of the first two failures, five per cent of the amount
required to be reported on the return;
         (b)   For the third and any subsequent failure, ten per cent of the
amount required to be reported on the return.
      (3)   If a taxpayer that has made the election allowed under section
148-1.21.1 of the Codified Ordinances fails to timely pay an amount of tax
required to be paid under this chapter, the commissioner may impose a penalty
equal to fifteen per cent of the amount not timely paid.
      (4)   If a taxpayer files what purports to be a tax return required by
sections
148-1.21.1  to
148-1.21.16 of the Codified Ordinances that does not contain information upon
which the substantial correctness of the return may be judged or contains
information that on its face indicates that the return is substantially
incorrect, and the filing of the return in that manner is due to a position
that is frivolous or a desire that is apparent from the return to delay or
impede the administration of section
s 148-1.21.1  to
148-1.21.16 of the Codified Ordinances, a penalty of up to five hundred dollars
may be imposed.
      (5)   If a taxpayer makes a fraudulent attempt to evade the reporting or
payment of the tax required to be shown on any return required under sections
148-1.21.1  to
148-1.21.16  of the Codified Ordinances, a penalty may be imposed not exceeding
the greater of one thousand dollars or one hundred per cent of the tax required
to be shown on the return.
      (6)   If any person makes a false or fraudulent claim for a refund under
section
148-1.21.12 o f the Codified Ordinances, a penalty may be imposed not exceeding
the greater of one thousand dollars or one hundred per cent of the claim. Any
penalty imposed under this division, any refund issued on the claim, and
interest on any refund from the date of the refund, may be assessed under
section
148-1.21.11  of the Codified Ordinances without regard to any time limitation
for the assessment imposed by division (A) of that section.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the tax required to be shown on a tax
return shall be reduced by the amount of any part of the tax paid on or before
the date, including any extensions of the date, prescribed for filing the
return.
 
   (C)   Each penalty imposed under this section shall be in addition to any
other penalty imposed under this section. All or part of any penalty imposed
under this section may be abated by the tax commissioner. The commissioner may
adopt rules governing the imposition and abatement of such penalties.
   (D)   All amounts collected under this section shall be considered as taxes
collected under sections
148-1.21.1 to
 148-1.21.16  of the Codified Ordinances and shall be credited and distributed
to municipal corporations in the same proportion as the underlying tax
liability is required to be distributed to such municipal corporations under
section 718.83 of the Revised Code.
148-1.21.11 ASSESSMENTS AGAINST TAXPAYER.
   (A)   If any taxpayer required to file a return under section
148-1.21.1  to
148-1.21.16 of the Codified Ordinances fails to file the return within the time
prescribed, files an incorrect return, or fails to remit the full amount of the
tax due for the period covered by the return, the tax commissioner may make an
assessment against the taxpayer for any deficiency for the period for which the
return or tax is due, based upon any information in the commissioner's
possession.
   The tax commissioner shall not make or issue an assessment against a
taxpayer more than three years after the later of the date the return subject
to assessment was required to be filed or the date the return was filed. Such
time limit may be extended if both the taxpayer and the commissioner consent in
writing to the extension. Any such extension shall extend the three- year time
limit in section
148-1.21.12  of the Codified Ordinances for the same period of time. There
shall be no bar or limit to an assessment against a taxpayer that fails to file
a return subject to assessment as required by sections
148-1.21.1  to
 148-1.21.16  of the Codified Ordinances, or that files a fraudulent return.
The commissioner shall give the taxpayer assessed written notice of the
assessment as provided in section 5703.37 of the Revised Code. With the notice,
the commissioner shall provide instructions on how to petition for reassessment
and request a hearing on the petition.
   (B)   Unless the taxpayer assessed files with the tax commissioner within
sixty days after service of the notice of assessment, either personally or by
certified mail, a written petition for reassessment signed by the authorized
agent of the taxpayer assessed having knowledge of the facts, the assessment
becomes final, and the amount of the assessment is due and payable from the
taxpayer to the treasurer of state. The petition shall indicate the taxpayer's
objections, but additional objections may be raised in writing if received by
the commissioner prior to the date shown on the final determination. If the
petition has been properly filed, the commissioner shall proceed under section
5703.60 of the Revised Code.
   (C)   After an assessment becomes final, if any portion of the assessment
remains unpaid, including accrued interest, a certified copy of the tax
commissioner's entry making the assessment final may be filed in the office of
the clerk of the court of common pleas in the county in which the taxpayer has
an office or place of business in this state, the county in which the
taxpayer's statutory agent is located, or Franklin county.
   Immediately upon the filing of the entry, the clerk shall enter a judgment
against the taxpayer assessed in the amount shown on the entry. The judgment
may be filed by the clerk in a loose-leaf book entitled "special judgments for
municipal income taxes," and shall have the same effect as other judgments.
Execution shall issue upon the judgment upon the request of the tax
commissioner, and all laws applicable to sales on execution shall apply to
sales made under the judgment.
   If the assessment is not paid in its entirety within sixty days after the
day the assessment was issued, the portion of the assessment consisting of tax
due shall bear interest at the rate per annum prescribed by section 5703.47 of
the Revised Code from the day the commissioner issues the assessment until the
assessment is paid or until it is certified to the attorney general for
collection under section 131.02 of the Revised Code, whichever comes first. If
the unpaid portion of the assessment is certified to the attorney general for
collection, the entire unpaid portion of the assessment shall bear interest at
the rate per annum prescribed by section 5703.47 of the Revised Code from the
date of certification until the date it is paid in its entirety. Interest shall
be paid in the same manner as the tax and may be collected by issuing an
assessment under this section.
   (D)   All money collected under this section shall be credited to the
municipal income tax fund and distributed to the municipal corporation to which
the money is owed based on the assessment issued under this section.
   (E)   If the tax commissioner believes that collection of the tax will be
jeopardized unless proceedings to collect or secure collection of the tax are
instituted without delay, the commissioner may issue a jeopardy assessment
against the taxpayer liable for the tax. Immediately upon the issuance of the
jeopardy assessment, the commissioner shall file an entry with the clerk of the
court of common pleas in the manner prescribed by division (C) of this section.
Notice of the jeopardy assessment shall be served on the taxpayer assessed or
the taxpayer's legal representative in the manner provided in section 5703.37
of the Revised Code within five days of the filing of the entry with the clerk.
The total amount assessed is immediately due and payable, unless the taxpayer
assessed files a petition for reassessment in accordance with division (B) of
this section and provides security in a form satisfactory to the commissioner
and in an amount sufficient to satisfy the unpaid balance of the assessment.
Full or partial payment of the assessment does not prejudice the commissioner's
consideration of the petition for reassessment.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the fact that a petition for reassessment is pending,
the taxpayer may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the petition. The acceptance of a payment by the treasurer of state does not
prejudice any claim for refund upon final determination of the petition.
   If upon final determination of the petition an error in the assessment is
corrected by the tax commissioner, upon petition so filed or pursuant to a
decision of the board of tax appeals or any court to which the determination or
decision has been appealed, so that the amount due from the taxpayer under the
corrected assessment is less than the portion paid, there shall be issued to
the taxpayer, its assigns, or legal representative a refund in the amount of
the overpayment as provided by section
148-1.21.12  of the Codified Ordinances, with interest on that amount as
provided by that section.
148-1.21.12 REFUND APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   An application to refund to a taxpayer the amount of taxes paid on any
illegal, erroneous, or excessive payment of tax under section
s 148-1.21.1  to
148-1.21.16 of the Codified
Ordinances, including assessments, shall be filed with the tax commissioner
within three years after the date of the illegal, erroneous, or excessive
payment of the tax, or within any additional period allowed by division (A) of
section
148-1.21.11  of the Codified Ordinances. The application shall be filed in the
form prescribed by the tax commissioner.
   (B)   (1)   On the filing of a refund application, the tax commissioner
shall determine the amount of refund to which the applicant is entitled. The
amount determined shall be based on the amount overpaid per return or
assessment. If the amount is greater than ten dollars and not less than that
claimed, the commissioner shall certify that amount to the director of budget
and management and the treasurer of state for payment from the tax refund fund
created in section 5703.052 of the Revised Code. If the amount is greater than
ten dollars but less than that claimed, the commissioner shall proceed in
accordance with section 5703.70 of the Revised Code.
      (2)   Upon issuance of a refund under this section, the commissioner
shall notify each municipal corporation of the amount refunded to the taxpayer
attributable to that municipal corporation, which shall be deducted from the
municipal corporation's next distribution under section 718.83 of the Revised
Code.
   (C)    Any portion of a refund determined under division (B) of this section
that is not issued within ninety days after such determination shall bear
interest at the rate per annum prescribed by section 5703.47 of the Revised
Code from the ninety-first day after such determination until the day the
refund is paid or credited. On an illegal or erroneous assessment, interest
shall be paid at that rate from the date of payment on the illegal or erroneous
assessment until the day the refund is paid or credited.
148-1.21.13 AMENDED RETURNS.
   (A)   If any of the facts, figures, computations, or attachments required in
an annual return filed by a taxpayer that has made the election allowed under
section
148-1.21.1 of the Codified Ordinances and used to determine the tax due under
sections
148-1.21.1  to
148-1.21.16  of the Codified Ordinances must be altered as the result of an
adjustment to the taxpayer's federal income tax return, whether initiated by
the taxpayer or the internal revenue service, and such alteration affects the
taxpayer's tax liability under those sections, the taxpayer shall file an
amended return with the tax commissioner in such form as the commissioner
requires. The amended return shall be filed not later than sixty days after the
adjustment is agreed upon or finally determined for federal income tax purposes
or after any federal income tax deficiency or refund, or the abatement or
credit resulting therefrom, has been assessed or paid, whichever occurs first.
If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal income tax
return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a consolidated
return, based on the taxpayer's consolidated federal income tax return, the
taxpayer shall notify the commissioner before filing the amended return.
   (B)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due together with any
penalty and interest thereon. An amended return required by this section is a
return subject to assessment under section
148-1.21.11  of the Codified Ordinances for the purpose of assessing any
additional tax due under this section, together with any applicable penalty and
interest. The amended return shall not reopen those facts, figures,
computations, or attachments from a previously filed return no longer subject
to assessment that are not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the
adjustment to the taxpayer's federal tax return.
   (C)   In the case of an overpayment, an application for refund may be filed
under this division within the sixty-day period prescribed for filing the
amended return, even if that period extends beyond the period prescribed in
section
 148-1.21.12  of the Codified Ordinances, if the application otherwise conforms
to the requirements of that section. An application filed under this division
shall claim refund of overpayments resulting from alterations to only those
facts, figures, computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer's annual
return that are affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to
the taxpayer's federal income tax return unless it is also filed within the
time prescribed in section
 148-1.21.12 of the Codified Ordinances. The application shall not reopen those
facts, figures, computations, or attachments that are not affected, either
directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer's federal income tax
return.
148-1.21.14 EXAMINATION OF RECORDS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS AND PERSONS.
   (A)   The tax commissioner, or any authorized agent or employee thereof, may
examine the books, papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns of
any taxpayer or other person that is subject to sections
148-1.21.1  to
 148-1.21.16  of the Codified Ordinances for the purpose of verifying the
accuracy of any return made or, if no return was filed, to ascertain the tax
due as required under those sections. Upon written request by the commissioner
or a duly authorized agent or employee thereof, every taxpayer or other person
subject to this section is required to furnish the opportunity for the
commissioner, authorized agent, or employee to investigate and examine such
books, papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns at a
reasonable time and place designated in the request.
   (B)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer or other person that
is subject to sections
148-1.21.1  to
148-1.21.16  of the Codified Ordinances shall be open to the tax commissioner's
inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a period of six
years following the end of the taxable year to which the records or documents
relate, unless the commissioner, in writing, consents to their destruction
within that period, or by order requires that they be kept longer. The
commissioner may require any person, by notice served on that person, to keep
such records as the commissioner determines necessary to show whether or not
that person is liable, and the extent of such liability, for the income tax
levied by a municipal corporation.
   (C)   The tax commissioner may examine under oath any person that the
commissioner reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that was
or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to affect
such income. The commissioner may, for this purpose, compel any such person to
attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books, papers, records, and
federal income tax returns in such person's possession or control. The person
may be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant, bookkeeper, or other
tax practitioner at any such hearing or examination. This division does not
authorize the practice of law by a person who is not an attorney.
   (D)   No person issued written notice by the tax commissioner compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records, or federal income tax returns under this section shall fail to comply.
148-1.21.15 CREDITS.
   (A)   A credit, granted by resolution or ordinance of the City pursuant to
section
 148-1.064  or
148-1.065  of the Codified Ordinances, shall be available to a taxpayer that
has made the election allowed under section
148-1.21.1 of the Codified Ordinances, against the municipal corporation's tax
on income. A municipal corporation shall submit the following information to
the tax commissioner on or before the later of January 31, 2018, or the thirty-
first day of January of the first year in which the taxpayer is eligible to
receive the credit:
      (1)   A copy of the agreement entered into by the City and taxpayer under
section
 148-1.064 o r
148-1.065  of the Codified Ordinances;
      (2)   A copy of the ordinance or resolution authorizing the agreement
entered into between the City and the taxpayer.
   (B)   (1)   Each taxpayer that claims a credit shall submit, with the
taxpayer's tax return, documentation issued by the City granting the credit
that confirms the eligibility of the taxpayer for the credit, the amount of the
credit for which the taxpayer is eligible, and the tax year to which the credit
is to be applied.
      (2)   Such documentation shall be provided in the form prescribed by the
tax commissioner.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize the tax
commissioner to enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to grant a credit, to
determine if a taxpayer meets the conditions of a tax credit agreement entered
into by the City and taxpayer under section
148-1.064 or
148-1.065  of the Codified Ordinances,, or to modify the terms or conditions of
any such existing agreement.
148-1.21.16 RECKLESS VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, whoever recklessly
violates division (A) of section
 148-1.21.5 of the Codified Ordinances shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree and shall be subject to a fine of not more than one thousand
dollars or imprisonment for a term of up to six months, or both.
   (B)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of division (A) of
section
148-1.21.5 o f the Codified Ordinances constitutes a separate offense.
   (C)   These specific penalties shall not be construed to prevent the City
from prosecuting any and all other offenses that may apply.
Legislative History: Ord. 4854, passed 02/26/2018
148-1.97 COLLECTION AFTER TERMINATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter shall continue in full force and effect insofar as the
levy of taxes is concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of
taxes levied hereunder and actions and proceedings for collecting any tax so
levied or enforcing any provisions of this chapter are concerned, it shall
continue in full force and effect until all of the taxes levied in the
aforesaid period are fully paid and any and all suits and prosecutions for the
collection of taxes or for the punishment of violations of this chapter have
been fully terminated, subject to the limitations contained in Section
 148-1.19 .
   (B)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this chapter shall be due on the date provided in Section
148-1.091  as though the same were continuing.
148-1.98 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   If any sentence, clause, section or part of this chapter, or any tax imposed
against, or exemption from tax granted to, any taxpayer or forms of income
specified herein is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such
unconstitutionality, illegality, or invalidity shall affect only such clause,
sentence, section or part of this chapter so found and shall not affect or
impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or other
parts of this chapter. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the
legislative authority of the Municipality that this chapter would have been
adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence, clause, section
or part thereof not been included in this chapter.
148-1.99 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, whoever violates
Section
 148-1.15 of this Chapter, division (A) of Section
148-1.14 of this Chapter, or Section
148-1.051  of this Chapter by failing to remit municipal income taxes deducted
and withheld from an employee, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree and shall be subject to a fine of not more than one thousand dollars or
imprisonment for a term of up to six months, or both. In addition, the
violation is punishable by dismissal from office or discharge from employment,
or both.
   (B)   Any person who discloses information received from the Internal
Revenue Service in violation of Internal Revenue Code Sec. 7213(a), 7213A, or
7431 shall be guilty of a felony of the fifth degree and shall be subject to a
fine of not more than five thousand dollars plus the costs of prosecution, or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or both. In addition, the
violation is punishable by dismissal from office or discharge from employment,
or both.
   (C)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of division (A) of
Section
 148-1.14 of this Chapter constitutes a separate offense.
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of this Chapter for which violation no
penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
By way of an illustrative enumeration, violations of this Chapter shall include
but not be limited to the following acts, conduct, and/or omissions:
      (1)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this Chapter; or
      (2)   Knowingly make any incomplete return; or
      (3)   Willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to pay the tax, penalties, and
interest, or any combination thereof, imposed by this Chapter; or
      (4)   Cause to not be remitted the city income tax withheld from
qualifying wages of employees to the Municipality municipal corporation as
required by Section
 148-1.051; or
      (5)   Neglect or refuse to withhold or remit municipal income tax from
employees; or
      (6)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his or her books, records, papers, federal and state
income tax returns, or any documentation relating to the income or net profits
of a taxpayer; or
       (7)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce his or
her books, records, papers, federal and state income tax returns, or any
documentation relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer upon order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator; or
      (8)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to such person's income or net profits, or in the case of a person
responsible for maintaining information relating to his or her employers'
income or net profits, such person's employer's income or net profits; or
      (9)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator; or
      (10)   To avoid imposition or collection of municipal income tax,
willfully give to an employer or prospective employer false information as to
his or her true name, correct social security number and residence address, or
willfully fail to promptly notify an employer or a prospective employer of any
change in residence address and date thereof; or
      (11)   Fail, as an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, to
maintain proper records of employees residence addresses, total qualifying
wages paid and municipal tax withheld, or to knowingly give the Tax
Administrator false information; or
      (12)   Willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to make any payment of
estimated municipal income tax for any taxable year or any part of any taxable
year in accordance with this Chapter; or
      (13)   Attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the
whole or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this Chapter.
      (14)   For purposes of this Section, any violation that does not specify
a culpable mental state or intent, shall be one of strict liability and no
culpable mental state or intent shall be required for a person to be guilty of
that violation.
      (15)   For purposes of this Section, the term "person" shall, in addition
to the meaning prescribed in Section
 148-1.03 , include in the case of a corporation, association, pass- through
entity or unincorporated business entity not having any resident owner or
officer within the city, any employee or agent of such corporation,
association, pass-through entity or unincorporated business entity who has
control or supervision over or is charged with the responsibility of filing the
municipal income tax returns and making the payments of the municipal income
tax as required by this Chapter.
   (E)   The Law Director or the Law Director's designee shall have the power
to compromise any criminal matter arising under this tax ordinance.
(Source: ORC 718.99)
Legislative History: Ord. 4812, passed 11/2/2015 (effective 1/1/2016)
CHAPTER 149
Civil Preparedness
 
149.01   City Manager as Director; subordinates; duties.
149.02   Administrative officers.
149.03   Appointment of auxiliary police, firemen; emblem.
149.04   Fees and bonds.
149.05   Termination of appointment.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
      Continuity of local government in enemy attack - see ORC Ch. 161
      Alternate seats of local government in enemy attack - see ORC 5915.041.
 
 
149.01 CITY MANAGER AS DIRECTOR; SUBORDINATES; DUTIES.
   The City Manager shall be the administrative head and Director of Civil
Preparedness and shall serve as such without compensation. The City Manager may
appoint an assistant director and/or a civilian director, responsible to the
City Manager. The City Manager shall have such duties and responsibilities as
are provided in ORC 5915.06.
149.02 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized to appoint such administrative
officers as may be required to assist him in administering and operating the
civil defense organization for the City. Such officers shall serve without
compensation, and shall act under the direction of the City Manager.
149.03 APPOINTMENT OF AUXILIARY POLICE, FIREMEN; EMBLEM.
   A.    The City Manager may appoint as many auxiliary police and firemen as
may be deemed necessary to accomplish the purpose of providing a defense for
the people against enemy action and other disasters. During their terms of
service, but only during such times as they may be ordered to perform services
by the director of Civil Defense and only while actually acting in line of duty
under such orders, such auxiliary police and firemen shall possess all the
powers and privileges and perform all the duties of police in the Division of
Police. Such auxiliary police and firemen shall serve without compensation from
the City, however, and their service shall not qualify or assist to qualify
them for participation in any of the emoluments, privileges or benefits of the
Police and Firemen's Disability and Pension Fund as established by state law.
 
   B.    Auxiliary police and firemen shall wear such identifying emblems as
may be prescribed by the Director of Civil Preparedness while acting under
orders as referred to in paragraph a of this section. No auxiliary police or
firemen shall attempt to carry out any order, rule or regulation promulgated
under the authority conferred by this chapter when he is not wearing that
identifying emblem.
149.04 FEES AND BONDS.
   No application or other fee shall be required of any applicant for
appointment as an auxiliary policeman or fireman under the provisions of this
chapter, nor shall a surety bond be required of him.
149.05 TERMINATION OF APPOINTMENT.
   Any person appointed as auxiliary policeman or fireman who is determined by
the City Manager to have been guilty of any conduct unbecoming a member of the
police and fire forces of the City, or guilty of the violation of any ordinance
of the City or law of the state or of the United States, shall have his
appointment terminated by the City manager.
Legislative History: Ord. 1760, passed 5/21/51; Ord. 1764, passed 2/2/53.
 
CHAPTER 150
Civil Preparedness Plan
 
150.01   Definitions.
150.02   Organization and appointments.
150.03   Emergency powers and duties.
150.04   Civil preparedness plan and programs.
150.05    No municipal or private liability.
150.06   Violations.
150.07   Penalty.
150.08   Severability.
150.09   Conflicting ordinances, orders, rules and regulations suspended.
 
 
150.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation of this Chapter:
   A.   "Civil Preparedness" means the ability to carry out the basic
government functions of maintaining the public peace, health and safety during
a civil emergency.
   B.   "Civil Emergency" means an event that would require a significant
diversion of routine municipal resource and service scheduling, for the purpose
of eliminating or reducing any danger to persons or their property.
   C.   "Disaster'' includes but is not limited to extraordinary fire, flood,
storm, epidemic or other impending or actual calamity endangering or
threatening to endanger health, life or property or constituted government.
   D.   "Civil Preparedness Forces" means the employees, equipment and
facilities of all City departments, boards, institutions and commissions; and,
in addition, it shall include all volunteer personnel, equipment and facilities
contributed by, or obtained from, volunteer persons or agencies.
   E.   “Volunteer” means one who contributes a service, equipment or
facilities to the civil preparedness organization without remuneration.
   F.   "Civil Preparedness Volunteer” means any person duly registered,
identified and appointed by the Director of the Office of Civil Preparedness
and assigned to participate in the civil defense activity.
   G.   "Director” shall mean the City Manager or his designated alternate duly
appointed in accordance with Section 4.03 of the City Charter.
   H.   "Regulations" shall include plans, programs, rules, restrictions,
requirements and other emergency procedures deemed essential to civil
preparedness.
 
150.02 ORGANIZATION AND APPOINTMENTS.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized and directed to create an organization
for civil preparedness utilizing to the fullest extent the existing agencies
within this City. The City Manager, as executive head of the municipal
government, shall be the Director of the civil preparedness forces of this City
and shall be responsible for their organization, administration and operations.
The organization shall consist of the following:
   A.   An Office of Civil Preparedness within the executive department of the
City government and under the direction of the City Manager, and such
assistants and other employees as are deemed necessary for the proper
functioning of the organization.
   B.   The employees, equipment and facilities of all City departments,
boards, institutions and commissions will participate in the civil preparedness
activity. Duties assigned to a City department shall be the same or similar to
the normal duties of the department.
   C.   Volunteer persons and agencies offering services to and accepted by the
City.
150.03 EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The director shall have the following power and duties with regard to civil
emergencies and disasters:
   A.   During any time period when civil emergency or disaster threatens or
exists in this City and to the extent the director deems it necessary to act
immediately, without the delay of waiting for action by the City Council, to
protect life, health, safety and property and to preserve critical resources
and duly constituted government, the director may promulgate such regulations
as he deems necessary to assist such protection and preservation including, but
not limited to, the following:
      1.   Regulations prohibiting or restricting the movement of vehicles in
order to facilitate the work of civil preparedness forces or to facilitate the
mass movement of persons to and from critical areas within or without the City.
      2.   Regulations pertaining to the movement of persons to and from areas
deemed to be hazardous or vulnerable to civil emergency or disaster.
      3.   Such other regulations as the director deems appropriate and
necessary to protect life, health, safety and property and to preserve critical
resources and duly constituted government.
 
   B.   During the same time periods and under the same conditions and for the
same purposes as were set forth in paragraph A of this section, the director
shall have the power to:
      1.   Direct resources to the aid of other communities when and if
required in accordance with the statutes of the state or the ordinances of this
City; and he may request the state or any political subdivision of the state to
send aid to this City in the event the resources of this City do not appear to
be adequate to cope with the civil emergency or disaster.
      2.   Obtain vital supplies, equipment and other properties found lacking
and needed for the protection or preservation referred to in paragraph A of
this section and bind the City for the fair value thereof in accordance with
the provisions for purchasing during times of public emergency as specified in
Section 5.06 of the City Charter, which are hereby declared to include civil
emergencies as defined in Section
150.01  above.
      3.   Require emergency services of any City officers or employees; and,
if he deems such personnel services inadequate, the director may require the
services of such other person as can be obtained. All such officers, employees
and other persons whose services are so required shall be entitled to any and
all privileges and Immunities as are provided by state law, by the City Charter
or City ordinances and, upon demand, may receive appropriate compensation for
their services rendered, as determined by the City Council.
      4.   Coordinate the recruitment of volunteer personnel and agencies to
augment the personnel and facilities of the City of civil preparedness
purposes.
      5.   Negotiate and conclude agreements with owners or persons in control
of buildings or other property for the use of such buildings or other property
for the civil preparedness purposes and designate suitable buildings as public
shelters, in accordance with Section 5.06 of the City Charter.
      6.   Coordinate the activity of all other public and private agencies
engaged in any civil preparedness activity.
150.04 CIVIL PREPAREDNESS PLAN AND PROGRAMS.
   The director shall cause a civil preparedness plan to be prepared and
presented to Council for adoption, modification or rejection. Such plan shall
provide for use of all services, equipment, facilities and personnel of all
existing departments and agencies of the City to the fullest extent for the
purposes of protection and preservation as referred to in Section
150.03 .
    It shall be the duty of all municipal departments and agencies to perform
the functions assigned by the plan, as adopted or modified by Council, and to
maintain their portion of the plan in a current state of readiness at all
times. The director shall conduct civil preparedness programs including but not
limited to the following:
   A.    Through public informational programs, educate the civilian population
as to actions necessary and appropriate in the event of civil emergency or
disaster.
   B.    Conduct public practice alerts to insure the efficient operation of
the civil preparedness forces and to familiarize residents with civil
preparedness regulations, procedures and operations.
150.05 NO MUNICIPAL OR PRIVATE LIABILITY.
   This Chapter
150  is an exercise by the City of its governmental functions for the
protection of the public peace, health and safety. Neither the City, its agents
or employees, nor any individual, receiver, firm, partnership, corporation,
association or trustee, or any of the employees or agents thereof, in good
faith carrying out, complying with or attempting to comply with any order, rule
or regulation promulgated pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, shall be
liable for any damage sustained to persons or property as the result of said
activity. The City shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless from such personal
liability all such agents and employees of the City who meet thruway
requirements of this section.
150.06 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this chapter
or to willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the civil preparedness
organization as herein defined in the enforcement or application of the
provisions of this chapter or of any regulations issued thereunder.
150.07 PENALTY.
   Whoever is guilty of a violation described in Section
150.06 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A second violation within six
months, whether of the same provision or not, shall constitute a fourth degree
misdemeanor. A third and every subsequent violation within six months of the
first offense shall constitute a third degree misdemeanor.
150.08 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any provision of this Chapter be declared invalid for any reason,
such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining sections
thereof, it being the legislative intent that the provisions of this chapter
shall be severable.
 
150.09 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES, ORDERS, RULES ANO REGULATIONS SUSPENDED.
   At all times when regulations made and promulgated pursuant to this chapter
are in effect they shall supersede all inconsistent ordinances, orders, rules
and regulations.
Legislative History: Ord. 3034, passed 3/6/78; ORC Ch. 2744; Ord. 2897, passed
11/18/74.
CHAPTER 151
Disposal of Property in the Possession of the City
151.01   Purpose; Home Rule Declaration
151.02   Disposal of City Property
151.03   Disposal of Lost, Abandoned, Stolen, Seized or Forfeited Property
151.04   Leasing or Rental of City-Owned Property
151.05   Use of City Property for Utility Purposes
151.06   Items Requiring Immediate Disposal
151.07   Property Found by City Employees
151.08   Reimbursement of City Expenses
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Sale or transfer of city property - see CHTR.
 3.01
Alternate state procedure - ORC Section 2933.41.
 
 
151.01 PURPOSE; HOME RULE DECLARATION.
   Under the power of local self-government conferred upon cities by Article
XVIII, Section 3 of the Ohio Constitution, and as a charter municipality under
Article XVIII, Section 7 of the same, the City of Oakwood has established the
procedures described in this chapter for disposal of real and personal property
interests in its possession, and shall not be obligated to follow procedures
set forth by state statutes, specifically including but not limited to Sections
737.29 through 737.32 and Sections 2981.11 through 2981.13 of the Ohio Revised
Code. The custodial care of any property interest and its disposal under this
chapter shall be deemed to constitute a governmental function within the
meaning of Chapter 2744 of the Ohio Revised Code. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the use of
procedures set forth in Section 2933.41 of the Ohio Revised Code as an optional
alternative to any procedure set forth herein. All references herein to
sections of the Ohio Revised Code shall also include any subsequent amendment
or renumbering thereof.
151.02 DISPOSAL OF CITY PROPERTY.
   A.   City personal property that is no longer needed for municipal purposes,
the estimated value of which is $25,000.00 or less, may be sold or disposed of
by the City Manager or his or her designee without further legislative action
of Council and in the manner deemed by the City Manager to be the most
practical and beneficial to the city. If the estimated value of such personal
property exceeds $25,000.00, it shall be disposed of only when authorized by
further ordinance of Council. Unless that ordinance requires a particular
procedure, such property may be disposed of in the manner deemed by the City
Manager to be the most practical and beneficial to the city.
    
   B.   City real property that is no longer needed for municipal purposes, the
estimated value of which is $25,000.00 or less, may be conveyed by the City
Manager in fee simple or in any lesser estate or interest, permit or license,
without further legislative action of Council and in the manner deemed by the
City Manager to be the most practical and beneficial to the city. If the
estimated value of such real property, or the interest to be conveyed therein,
exceeds $25,000.00, it may be conveyed only when authorized by further
ordinance of Council, upon such terms and conditions as stated therein.
   C.   For purposes of determining whether a sale or disposal method is the
most practical and beneficial to the city, the City Manager shall consider all
factors relevant to a cost-benefit analysis. No single factor shall be
controlling. Such factors may include, but are not limited to: the cost of
various available methods; personnel and other City resources involved; the
likely proceeds of sale; community or goodwill benefits that may be realized by
donation; and any time considerations that may be relevant.
151.03 DISPOSAL OF LOST, ABANDONED, STOLEN, SEIZED OR FORFEITED PROPERTY.
   A.   Any property that has been lost, abandoned, stolen, or lawfully seized
or forfeited, and that is in the custody of the Department of Public Safety,
shall be kept safely until such time as it is no longer needed as evidence or
for another lawful purpose, and shall be disposed of pursuant to this section.
   B.   The Department of Public Safety shall make a reasonable effort to
locate the owner of property in its custody and to notify them when and where
it may be claimed. If, after a period of 60 days, the department is unable to
identify or locate the owner of property, or, once notified, the owner fails to
claim such property pursuant to the terms of the notice, that property shall be
considered "unclaimed property" and disposed of pursuant to this section. The
60 day holding period shall not apply in the case of animals, perishable items,
or other property similarly requiring prompt disposition. For purposes of this
section, the department will be deemed to have made a reasonable effort to
locate and notify a person entitled to possession of property if one or more of
the following steps are taken:
      1.   A phone call is made to the last known phone number of the known or
suspected owner of the property;
      2.   A letter is mailed to the last known address of the known or
suspected owner of the property;
      3.   A brief investigation or inquiry is made by department employees for
the purpose of locating or identifying the owner of the property;
       4.   A notice is posted in a conspicuous physical location at City Hall
(30 Park Avenue) and at the Oakwood Community Center (105 Patterson Road), or
online via the city's website and/or social media account(s), briefly
describing the nature of the property in custody and inviting persons to
establish their right to it.
   C.   Unclaimed property in the custody of the Department of Public Safety
that was found and placed into the department's custody by a person not
employed by the City may be returned to the finder, provided that all of the
following conditions are met:
      1.   The property is not a weapon, firearm or dangerous ordnance;
      2.   The property is not drugs, drug paraphernalia, beer, intoxicating
liquor or alcohol, obscene material, or any other dangerous or illegal
material;
      3.   The owner of the found property is unknown, or cannot be located, or
fails to claim the property within the applicable holding period after a
reasonable effort to locate and notify the owner as described in section
151.03 (B); and
      4.   At the time the property was placed into the department's custody,
the person who found the property signed an affidavit that they are the finder
of the property in question, that they did not obtain the property illegally,
that they have fully and truthfully informed the department of all
circumstances surrounding the finding of the property, and that they desire to
receive the property if it goes unclaimed by its rightful owner.
   D.   A person loses any right he may have to possession of property in
either of the following circumstances:
      1.   The property was the subject of, or was used in a conspiracy or
attempt to commit or in the commission of, a criminal offense other than a
traffic offense, and such person is a conspirator, accomplice, or offender with
respect to the offense;
      2.   Upon determination by a court of competent jurisdiction that the
property should be forfeited.
   E.   Unclaimed and forfeited property in the custody of the Department of
Public Safety shall be sold or disposed of in the manner deemed by the City
Manager to be the most practical and beneficial to the city, as described in
Section
151.02(C), subject to the following exceptions:
      1.   Drugs shall be destroyed, or shall be placed in the custody of the
Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for disposal or use for medical
or scientific purposes under applicable federal law.
       2.   Weapons, firearms, and dangerous ordnance suitable for police work,
or which may be traded in to offset the purchase of items suitable for police
work, may be retained by the department for that purpose. Weapons or firearms
suitable for sporting use, or as museum pieces or collector's items, may be
sold or disposed of in the manner deemed by the City Manager to be the most
practical and beneficial to the city, as described in Section
151.02 (C). All other weapons, firearms, and dangerous ordnance shall be
destroyed.
      3.   Obscene materials shall be destroyed.
      4.   Beer, intoxicating liquor or alcohol seized from a person who is not
the holder of a permit issued under Chapters 4301 and 4303 of the Ohio Revised
Code, or from a person who is an offender and the same has been forfeited to
the state under Section 4301.45 or 4501.53 of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be
destroyed or turned over to the Department of Liquor Control to be sold
pursuant to Section 2933.41(D)(4) of the Ohio Revised Code.
      5.   Any other item of personal or real property forfeited under any law
of the United States or the State of Ohio or ordinance of this city may be
retained by the city for its own use.
151.04 LEASING OR RENTAL OF CITY-OWNED PROPERTY
   Any interest in City-owned real estate or personal property may be leased or
rented by the City Manager to any person or entity upon a negotiated basis, but
only for such periods of time that the interest leased or rented is not needed
for municipal purposes.
151.05 USE OF CITY PROPERTY FOR UTILITY PURPOSES.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section
151.02(B), the City Manager is hereby authorized and empowered to execute such
licenses, plat dedications and easements, whether temporary or permanent, to or
for utilities as the City Manager may deem necessary for utility uses and to
benefit the public health, safety and welfare.
151.06 ITEMS REQUIRING IMMEDIATE DISPOSAL.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, and except as necessary
to preserve evidence in a pending criminal matter, the City shall have no
obligation to hold or retain hazardous materials, perishable or other food and
beverage items, waste, refuse, or other items that, in the City Manager's
discretion, require immediate disposal. Such items may be disposed of
immediately without resort to other procedures set forth in this chapter.
151.07 PROPERTY FOUND BY CITY EMPLOYEES.
   If personal property is found by a City employee during the course of his or
her employment, that employee shall have a duty to deliver the property into
the custody of this city. Any rights which might otherwise accrue to the finder
of such property shall accrue to the City, as the employer and principal of
such employee.
 
151.08 REIMBURSEMENT OF CITY EXPENSES.
   The right of any owner or finder to claim possession of property pursuant to
this chapter shall be conditioned upon that person's reimbursement to the City
of all direct expenses incurred by the City in connection with the
transportation, care, custody, and/or disposal of said property in compliance
with this chapter.
Legislative History: Ord. 2882, passed 5/20/74; Ord. 2490, passed 6/19/67; Ord.
2799, passed 3/6/73; Ord. 2802, dated 3/19/73; Ord. 2934, passed 9/15/75; Ord.
3005, passed 7/11/77; also see ORC 2933.41; Ord. 3116, passed 1/7/80; Ord.
3394, passed 1/2/84; Ord. 3961, passed 6/4/90; Ord. 4209, passed 7/19/93; Ord.
4410, passed 5/4/98; Ord. 4629, passed 5/21/07, effective 6/21/07; Ord. 4778,
passed 8/5/13, effective 9/5/13; Ord. 4965, passed 12/5/2022, effective 1/5/
2023.
CHAPTER 152
Recovery of Costs
152.01   Recovery of third party costs.
 
 
152.01 RECOVERY OF THIRD PARTY COSTS.
   A.   If an application or request filed with the City requires analysis or
other services by persons or organizations not part of the City staff, all
costs incurred by the City for such third party services shall be the
obligation of the applicant or the person making the request.
   B.   All application forms provided by the City shall explain this
obligation and shall require the signature of the applicant.
   C.   If a request is involved rather than an application, the City shall not
incur any third party expense until a written explanation of this obligation is
presented to and signed by the person making the request.
Legislative History: Ord. 3630, passed 3/9/87.
CHAPTER 153
Permit, Inspection and Miscellaneous Fees
153.01 Authorization for, schedule of, all permit, inspection and miscellaneous
fees.
 
 
153.01 AUTHORIZATION   FOR, SCHEDULE OF, PERMIT, INSPECTION AND MISCELLANEOUS
FEES.
   A.   Acting under its Zoning, Business Regulation and Building Codes and all
other ordinances whatsoever, the City shall be authorized to charge and collect
reasonable fees for receiving and processing applications, for the issuance of
all perm its, for all inspections that are necessary or appropriate to check on
the matters covered by such perm its or involved in such applications, and for
other administrative procedures.
   B.   The amount to be charged for such matters shall be no greater than the
administrative and out-of-pocket costs to the City of issuing the permits,
making such inspections, receiving and processing the applications and
requests, and for any other administrative procedures. These costs may include,
but shall not be limited to, an allowance for the compensation paid to city
employees who work on such matters and for their
employee benefits and overhead.
   Acting within that limitation on the amount to be charged, the City Manager
shall set the fees for all such matters and shall list all such fees on one
schedule that shall be dated and signed by the City Manager and maintained in
the administrative offices of the City so as to be available to any interested
persons.
Legislative History: Ord. 3686, passed 8/24/87.
TITLE SEVEN - Boards, Commissions and Committees
CHAPTER 160
General Matters
160.01   Attendance of Members.
160.02   Subpoena Pow er.
160.03   Appeal rights of the city.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
ADA Compliance Committee - see Ch.
175 
Board of Health - see Ch.
161
Budget Review Committee - Ord. 2619 (uncodified)
Business Regulation Appeals Board - see Ch.
759 
Beautification Committee - see Ch.
163
Friends of Smith Gardens - Resolutions 1334, 1338, 1347
General Matters as to Boards, Commissions and Committees - see Ch.
160 
General Appeals Board - see Ch.
169
Human Relations Commission - see Ch. 511.05
Leisure Services Advisory Board - see Ch.
171
Parade and Assembly Appeals Board - see Ch.
311.02 
Personnel Appeals Board - see Ch.
141
Planning Commission - see Ch. 1107
Property Maintenance Appeals Board - see Ch. 17-111
Tax Appeals Board -see Ch.
148.13
Water and Sewer Appeals Board - see Ch.
167 
Youth Commission - Resolution 1332
Zoning Appeals Board - see Ch. 1105
 
 
160.01 ATTENDANCE OF MEMBERS.
   It shall be the duty of every member of each board, commission or committee
of this city to be present and remain during all meetings of the body on w hich
that member serves unless that member or a person in his or her family is ill
or injured, unless extraordinary business interests demand immediate attention
by that member, unless the member is absent from the city, or unless his or her
absence is otherw ise excused by the applicable board, commission or committee.
   Members shall be deemed to be present if they participate in a meeting by
means of communication equipment and in the manner described in this section.
Such participation shall mean that all members participating must be able to
hear each other, and all members of the public attending at the designated
location of the meeting must be able to hear and to speak to each member and to
each other.
   Failure of any member to attend three (3) consecutive meetings w ithout
grounds or excuse for such absence as described above in this section shall
constitute a violation of the duties of that public office and shall result in
automatic and immediate forfeiture of office by that member.
   After such automatic forfeiture of office, the member shall continue to
serve in a de facto capacity until his or her successor is appointed by the
City Council.
160.02 SUBPOENA POWER.
   Each board and commission created by the Charter or through an ordinance of
this city shall have the pow er to subpoena w itnesses for any appeal,
variance, application or other matters as to w hich that board or commission
has authority to issue a final administrative order appealable to the courts.
160.03 APPEAL RIGHTS OF THE CITY.
   Persons who apply to or receive decisions from various Oakw ood boards and
commissions may have certain rights of appeal to administrative or judicial
bodies, as declared by state law or by ordinances. The government of the City
of Oakw ood shall have the same rights of appeal as such persons.
Legislative history: Ord. 3942, passed 4/16/90; Ord. 4212, passed 7/19/93; Ord.
4243, passed 3/21/94.
CHAPTER 161
Board of Health
161.01    Administrative responsibility.
161.02    Sanitary officers.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Board of Health - see CHTR. Sec.
7.03.
Health, safety and sanitation - see GEN. OFF. Ch.
517.
 
 
161.01 ADMINISTRATIVE RESPONSIBILITY.
   All laws, ordinances, rules and regulations relating to the health of the
inhabitants of the City, as well as all laws, rules and regulations relating to
sanitary conditions within the City, shall be administered and executed by the
Board of Health.
161.02 SANITARY OFFICERS.
   Upon request from the Board of Health, the City Manager shall detail one or
more members of the Department of Safety to act as sanitary officers under the
direction of the Board of Health. When so detailed, such officers shall perform
such duties as they may be directed to perform by the Board of Health or the
Health Commissioner, as the case may be.
Legislative History: Ord. 1153, passed 6/19/33.
CHAPTER 163
BEAUTIFICATION COMMITTEE
163.01 Establishment and purpose.
163.02 Membership; powers; compensation.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Trees and shrubs - see GEN. OFF. Ch.
541.
Noxious weeds, notice to cut - see GEN. OFF.
549.02
 
 
163.01 ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE
   A Beautification Committee is hereby established to preserve the sylvan
setting of the City, to encourage all Oakwood residents and property ow ners in
the landscaping of their properties, to emphasize the desirability of
maintaining and improving the planted and landscaped areas of the City, to
promote and encourage the care and maintenance of the entire area of Oakwood so
as to preserve and to continue this suburban community as a particularly
desirable place to live, to emphasize the value to all Oakwood residents and
property ow ners of a continuing campaign to maintain all property in this City
in excellent condition and state of repair, and to promote the general
beautification of this City.
163.02 MEMBERSHIP; POWERS; COMPENSATION.
   The Beautification Committee shall consist of not less than five members w
ho shall serve for a term of three years or until their successors are
appointed, whichever first occurs. All members of the committee shall be
appointed by Council through a motion passed by a majority of a quorum of
Council. The committee shall have the power to appoint a technical advisory
staff consisting of persons who, although not members of the committee, have
special know ledge and information which may be of assistance to the committee
in accomplishing its goals. All members of the committee and of such technical
advisory staff shall serve w ithout compensation and shall be selected on the
basis of special skills, talents, energy and knowledge which they have to
contribute toward the goals and purposes of the committee.
   The committee shall study, investigate, counsel, develop and periodically
update a written plan of recommendation for the planning, care, preservation,
pruning, replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in the parks
and along the street and other public areas of the City. The committee may also
engage in such other activities, as requested by and in collaboration w ith the
Department of Leisure Services, as are reasonably related to the committee's
purpose as set forth in Section
163.01 .
   Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and decisions of
the committee in relationship to those rules relating to trees.
Legislative History: Res. 857, passed 10/16/67; Res. 870, passed 4/1/68; Res.
951, passed 12/4/72; Ord. 3249, passed 2/1/82 ; Ord. 4901, passed 1/6/2020 .
 
CHAPTER 167
Sewer and Water Appeals Board
167.01 Board of Sewer and Water Appeals
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Subpoena power of this board -- see ADMIN
160.02
 
 
167.01 BOARD OF SEWER AND WATER APPEALS.
   A.   Creation and membership. There is hereby created a Board of Sewer and
Water Appeals to conduct hearings and make determinations as authorized by this
chapter. The members of the Local Board of Tax Review, as established under
Chapter 148-1, shall, for the purposes set forth herein, constitute the Board
of Sewer and Water Appeals. The character of the board and terms of office of
its members shall be as prescribed in Codified Ordinance 148-1.1B(A).
   B.   Claims for damages. The Board of Sewer and Water Appeals is hereby
vested with jurisdiction and authority to hear and decide claims for damages
based upon injuries to persons and/or property caused by the operation of the
sewer and/or water systems of this City. Acting under the law of Ohio, the
board shall determine all relevant issues, including but not limited to, the
questions of whether or not any malfunction occurred, the existence and extent
of claimed injuries and to what extent, if any, the City of Oakwood is liable
for such damages. Claimants shall have the burden of proving by a preponderance
of the evidence that they have the right to recover damages from the City on
such claims.
   C.   Alleged errors in bills. Further, the board shall also have
jurisdiction to hear and decide the correctness of and liability for billing
statements for water service, and alleged vlolations of regulations of the
Water Department, after public hearing as provided in the Water Department
Rules and Regulations.
   D.   Facts and law. The board shall determine the facts and shall apply the
law with regard to the sewer and/or water systems of this City, but shall not
have authority to vary, to waive or .to refuse to apply any provision of such
law. (For subpoena power see ADMIN
160.02 )
   E.   Meetings and rules. All meetings of the Board of Sewer and Water
Appeals shall be held at the call of its chairman and at such times as the
board may determine. All hearings conducted by such board shall be open to the
public to the extent required by the rules of procedure set forth in Chapter
111  of the Codified Ordinances. The board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings and may not adopt its own rules and procedures. The o members of
this board shall serve as such without compensation.
 
   F.   Right of appeal. The ultimate decisions of this board upon claims
presented to it shall be final administrative decisions and shall be subject to
judicial review upon appeal by either the cl.aimant or the City to the court
system in the manner provided by the statutes of Ohio.
Legislative History:   Ord. 2958, passed 4/19/76; Ord. 3015, passed 11/21/77;
Ord. 3073, passed 12/18/78; O,rd. 3591, passed 10/20/86; Ord. 4819, passed 2/
22/16.
CHAPTER 169
General Appeals Board
169.01 Board of General Appeals.
 
CROSS REFERENCE
Subpoena power of this board -- see ADMIN
160.02
 
 
169.01 BOARD OF GENERAL APPEALS.
   A.   Creation, membership and jurisdiction. There is hereby created a Board
of General Appeals to conduct hearings and make determinations in such areas of
jurisdiction as may be granted to this board by other ordinances of the City of
Oakwood. The members of the Board of Zoning Appeals of this City shall
constitute the members of this Board of General Appeals, and the terms of
office shall be the same as those for the Board of Zoning Appeals. (For
subpoena power see ADMIN
160.02 )
   B.   Meetings and rules. Meetings and rules of this board shall be the same
as those applicable to the Board of Zoning Appeals under Section  1105.03  and
Chapter
111  of the Codified Ordinances. The members of this board shall serve as such
without compensation.
   C.   Right of appeal to a court. The ultimate decisions of this board upon
appeals and matters presented to it shall be final administrative decisions and
shall be subject to judicial review upon appeal by either the original
appellant or the City to the court system in the manner provided by the
statutes of the State of Ohio.
Legislative History: Ord. 3463, passed 11 /19/84.
CHAPTER 171
Leisure Services Advisory Board
171.01 Creation of Board; Membership.
171.02 Purpose and Chairperson.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
See Chap.
137 for Leisure Services Department.
 
 
171.01 CREATION OF BOARD; MEMBERSHIP.
   A.    A Leisure Services Advisory Board is hereby established for the
purposes set forth in this chapter. It shall consist of not more than seven
voting members, all of whom shall be residents of this City. One of those seven
voting members may be a member of the Board of Education of the Oakwood City
School District. That Board of Education shall have the right to designate
which of its members shall serve in that capacity. Another voting member of the
Leisure Services Advisory Board may be a member of this Council of this City.
The City Council shall have the right to designate which of its members shall
serve in that capacity.
   B.    The remaining five voting members of the board shall be appointed by
the City Council. None of these five persons shall be members of the City
Council or of the Board of Education. Finally, the board shall have two non-
voting, ex-officio members in the persons of the City Manager of Oakwood and
the Superintendent of the Oakwood School District, or their authorized
representatives.
   C.   The members of the board shall serve without compensation. Each member
shall serve for an overlapping term of four years. The ex-officio members of
the board shall not serve for any definite term but instead shall continue on
the board as long as they hold their respective positions with the City and the
school district. The voting members of the board shall be appointed" for
specific terms of office.
   D.   The terms of the initial appointees shall be staggered as follows: the
City Council and Board of Education members each shall be appointed for a term
of four years; two of the voting members shall be appointed for terms of three
years each; another two of the voting members shall be appointed for terms of
two years each; and the last voting member shall be appointed for a one year
term. As these terms of office expire, all subsequent appointments shall be for
four year terms.
171.02 PURPOSE AND CHAIRPERSON.
   A.   The purpose of the board shall be to give advice and recommendations to
the City of Oakwood with regard to leisure activities that may be conducted,
and leisure services
 
Leisure Services Advisory Board which may be provided, by or through the
Department of Leisure Services. This may include the preparation of a
recommended budget showing sources and uses of funds.
      
   B.   Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the chairperson and
at such other times as the board may determine. The board shall keep minutes of
its proceedings and shall follow the rules and procedures adopted by the City
Council as Chapter
111  of the Codified Ordinances of this City. The board shall have authority to
appoint such committees as it deems desirable. Those committees may include
Oakwood residents who are not members of the board. The chairperson of each
such committee must be a member of the board unless the board appoints some
other chairperson. One of the purposes of such committees may be to serve as
liaison between the Director of the Department of Leisure Services of the City
and citizens who take part in the activities or use services provided by or
through that department.
   C.   The City Council shall appoint the chairperson and vice-chairperson of
the Leisure Services Advisory Board.
Legislative History: Ord. 3600, passed 11/17/86; Ord. 3827, passed 11/21/88.
CHAPTER 173
Miscellaneous Administrative Matters
173.01 Suspension of Applications While Other Violations Remain in Effect.
 
 
173.01 SUSPENSION OF APPLICATIONS WHILE OTHER VIOLATIONS REMAIN IN EFFECT.
   No applications, requests, appeals or other matters brought before the City
of Oakwood regarding a particular property may be considered or heard as long
as an uncontested violation of some ordinance exists as to that property.
   If such an alleged violation is the subject of another pending
administrative or court procedure or case, it shall be deemed to be contested
untilthat proceeding or case has been resolved.
Legislative history: Ord. 4009, passed 10/15/90.
CHAPTER 175
Americans with Disabilities Act
175.01 ADA Compliance Committee, Coordinator and Grievance Procedure.
 
 
175.01 ADA COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE, COORDINATOR AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)    An ADA Compliance Committee is hereby created to consist of three
persons as described in that federal statute. The city council shall appoint
the members of this committee and shall designate one member as chairperson.
The term of each member shall be for three years. Any member may be removed by
majority vote of Council.
   (B)    The city manager is hereby authorized and directed to appoint some
employee of the city to the position of coordinator as required by the ADA.
   (C)    The city manager is also empowered and directed to adopt a grievance
procedure applicable to the ADA.
Legislative history: Ord. 4110, passed 1/20/92.
CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF OAKWOOD
PART THREE - TRAFFIC CODE
TITLE ONE - Administration
Chap.
301. Definitions.
Chap.
303. Enforcement, Impounding and Penalty.
Chap.
305. Traffic Control Map; Traffic Regulations.
TITLE THREE - Streets and Traffic Control Devices
Chap.
311. Street Obstructions and Special Situations.
Chap.
313. Traffic Control Devices.
TITLE FIVE - Vehicles
Chap.
331. Operation Generally.
Chap.
333. OVI; Willful Misconduct; Speed.
Chap.
335. Licensing; Accidents.
Chap.
337. Safety and Equipment.
Chap.
339. Commercial and Heavy Vehicles.
Chap.
341. Commercial Drivers.
Chap.
343. Interfering With Buses.
TITLE SEVEN - Parking
Chap.
351. Parking Generally.
TITLE NINE - Pedestrians, Bicycles and Motorcycles
Chap.
371. Pedestrians.
Chap.
373. Bicycles.
Chap.
375. Motorcycles, Motor Bicycles, Snowmobiles and Other Miscellaneous Vehicles.
CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF OAKWOOD
PART THREE - TRAFFIC CODE
TITLE ONE - Administration
Chap.
301. Definitions.
Chap.
303. Enforcement, Impounding and Penalty.
Chap.
305. Traffic Control Map; Traffic Regulations.
CHAPTER 301
Definitions
301.01   Meaning of words and phrases.
301.02   Agricultural tractor and traction engine.
301.03   Alley.
301.04   Arterial street or highway.
301.05   Autocycle.
301.06   Beacon.
301.07   Bicycle.
301.08   Bicycle box.
301.09   Bicycle lane.
301.10   Bicycle signal face.
301.11   Bicycle signal sign.
301.12   Bikeway.
301.13   Bus.
301.14   Business district.
301.15   Busway.
301.16   Cab-enclosed motorcycle.
301.17   Chauffeured limousine.
301.18   Child care center.
301.19   Commercial tractor.
301.20   Controlled-access highway.
301.21   Crosswalk.
301.22   Driver or operator.
301.23   Driveway.
301.24   Electric bicycle.
301.25   Electronic.
301.26   Emergency vehicle.
301.27   Explosives.
301.28   Expressway.
301.29   Farm machinery.
301.30   Flammable liquid.
301.31   Freeway.
301.32   Funeral escort vehicle.
301.33   Gross weight.
301.34   Highway maintenance vehicle.
301.35   Highway traffic signal.
301.36   Hybrid beacon.
301.37   In-road warning light.
301.38   Intersection.
301.39   Lane-use control signal.
301.40   Laned highway.
301.41   Limited driving privileges.
301.42   Local authorities.
301.43   Low-speed micromobility device.
301.435   Low-speed vehicle.
301.44   Median.
301.445   Mini-truck.
301.45   Motor-driven cycle or motor scooter.
301.46   Motor vehicle.
301.47   Motorcycle.
301.48   Motorized bicycle or moped.
301.49   Motorized wheelchair.
301.50   Multi-wheel agricultural tractor.
301.51   Natural resources officer.
301.52   Operate.
301.53   Parked or parking.
301.54   Pedestrian.
301.55   Person.
301.56   Pole trailer.
301.57   Police officer.
301.58   Predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense.
301.59   Private road.
301.60   Public safety vehicle.
301.61   Railroad.
301.62   Railroad sign or signal.
301.63   Residence district.
301.64   Ridesharing arrangement.
301.65   Right-of-way.
301.66   Road service vehicle.
301.67   Roadway.
301.68   Roundabout.
301.69   Rural mail delivery vehicle
301.70   Safety zone.
301.71   School bus.
301.72   Semitrailer.
301.73   Shared-use path.
301.74   Shoulder.
301.75   Sidewalk.
301.76   Site roadway open to public travel.
301.77   Standing.
301.78   State.
301.79   State highway.
301.80   State route.
301.81   Stop.
301.82   Stop intersection.
301.83   Stopping.
301.84   Street or highway.
301.85   Through highway.
301.86   Thruway.
301.87   Traffic.
301.88   Traffic control device.
301.89   Traffic control signal.
301.90   Trailer.
301.91   Train.
301.92   Truck.
301.93   Two-stage bicycle turn box.
301.94   Type A family child care home.
301.945   Under-speed vehicle.
301.95   Urban district.
301.955   Utility vehicle.
301.96   Vehicle.
301.97   Waste collection vehicle.
301.98   Wildlife officer.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
See sectional histories for similar State law
Funeral procession defined - see TRAF.
331.24
Street racing defined - see TRAF.
333.07
Studded tire defined - see TRAF.
339.11
Blind person defined - see TRAF.
371.02
Snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle and all purpose vehicle defined - see TRAF.
375.01
School zones defined - see TRAF.
333.03(b)
 
 
301.01 MEANING OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   The following words and phrases when used in this Traffic Code, except as
otherwise provided, shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
this chapter.
301.02 AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR AND TRACTION ENGINE.
   “Agricultural tractor” and “traction engine” means every self-propelled
vehicle designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, but
having no provision for carrying loads independently of such other vehicles,
and used principally for agricultural purposes.
(ORC 4511.01(J))
301.03 ALLEY.
   “Alley” means a street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or
side of lots or buildings in urban districts, and not intended for the purpose
of through vehicular traffic, and any street or highway that has been declared
an “alley” by the Legislative Authority of the municipality in which the street
or highway is located.
(ORC 4511.01(XX))
301.04 ARTERIAL STREET OR HIGHWAY.
   “Arterial street or highway” means a street or highway primarily used by
through traffic, usually on a continuous route or a street or highway
designated as part of an arterial system.
(ORC 4511.01(CCC))
301.05 AUTOCYCLE.
   “Autocycle” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4501.01.
(ORC 4511.01(LLLL))
301.06 BEACON.
   “Beacon” means a highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections
that operate in a flashing mode. (ORC 4511.01(KKK))
301.07 BICYCLE.
   “Bicycle” means a pedal-powered vehicle upon which a human operator sits,
including an electric bicycle. (ORC 4511.01(G))
301.08 BICYCLE BOX.
   “Bicycle box” means a designated area on the approach to a signalized
intersection, between an advance motorist stop line and the crosswalk or
intersection, that is intended to provide bicyclists a visible location to wait
in front of stopped motorists during the red signal phase.
(ORC 4511.01(BBBB))
301.09 BICYCLE LANE.
   “Bicycle lane” means a portion of a roadway that has been designated for
preferential or exclusive use by bicyclists and is often delineated from the
adjacent general purpose lanes by longitudinal pavement markings and either a
bicycle lane symbol, words, or signs. The term includes all of the following:
   (a)   A buffer-separated bicycle lane, which is separated from the adjacent
general-purpose lanes by a pattern of standard longitudinal pavement markings
that are wider than a normal or wide-lane pavement marking;
   (b)   A counter-flow bicycle lane, which is a one directional bicycle lane
that provides a lawful path of travel for bicycles in the opposite direction
from the general traffic on a roadway that otherwise requires the general
traffic to travel in only one direction. A counter-flow bicycle lane is
designated by the traffic control devices used for other bicycle lanes;
   (c)   A separated bicycle lane, which is an exclusive facility for
bicyclists that is located within or directly adjacent to the roadway and is
physically separated from the motor vehicle traffic with a vertical element.
      (ORC 4511.01(DDDD))
301.10 BICYCLE SIGNAL FACE.
   “Bicycle signal face” means a signal face that displays only bicycle symbol
signal indications in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4511.15 that exclusively
controls a bicyclist’s movement from a designated bicycle lane or from a
separate facility, and that displays signal indications that are applicable
only to a bicyclist’s movement. (ORC 4511.01(EEEE))
301.11 BICYCLE SIGNAL SIGN.
   “Bicycle signal sign” means a sign meant to inform road users that the
signal indications in the bicycle signal face are intended only for bicyclists,
and to inform bicyclists which bicyclist movements are controlled by that
bicycle signal face.
(ORC 4511.01(FFFF))
301.12 BIKEWAY.
   "Bikeway" means a path or road specifically designated for travel by
bicycles, and falling into one of the following classes:
   (a)   “Class I Bikeway” means a bike path on which traffic is completely
separated from motor vehicle traffic except at those locations where the bike
path must cross a roadway.
   (b)   “Class II Bikeway” means a bike lane established upon existing
roadways by painting traffic lines on the road to create lanes, usually on the
right-hand side of the road.
   (c)   “Class III Bikeway” means a bike route consisting of existing streets
on which there is no separation of motor vehicle and bicycle traffic, but on
which signs are present to mark the route and alert motorists to potential
bicycle traffic.
   Pedestrians may share the use of any bikeway with bicycle traffic; both
pedestrians and bicycle riders shall exercise due care in their use of any
bikeway.
(Ord. 3782. Passed 7-11-88.)
301.13 BUS.
   “Bus” means every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine
passengers, and used for the transportation of persons other than in a
ridesharing arrangement, and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire, or
funeral car, other than a taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ride- sharing
arrangement, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
(ORC 4511.01(L))
301.14 BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   “Business district” means the territory fronting upon a street or highway,
including the street or highway, between successive intersections within the
municipality, where fifty percent (50%) or more of the frontage between
successive intersections is occupied by buildings in use for business, or
within or outside the municipality where fifty percent (50%) or more of the
frontage for a distance of 300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for
business, and the character of the territory is indicated by official traffic-
control devices.
(ORC 4511.01(NN))
301.15 BUSWAY.
   “Busway” means a traveled way that is used exclusively by buses.
(ORC 4511.01(HHHH))
301.16 CAB-ENCLOSED MOTORCYCLE.
   “Cab-enclosed motorcycle” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4501.01.
301.17 CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE.
   “Chauffeured limousine” means a motor vehicle that is designed to carry nine
or fewer passengers and is operated for hire pursuant to a prearranged contract
for the transportation of passengers on public roads and highways along a route
under the control of the person hiring the
vehicle and not over a defined and regular route. “Prearranged contract” means
an agreement, made in advance of boarding, to provide transportation from a
specific location in an chauffeured limousine. The term does not include any
vehicle that is used exclusively in the business of funeral directing. (ORC
4511.01(LL))
301.18 CHILD CARE CENTER.
   “Child care center” has the same meaning as set forth in Ohio R.C. 5104.01.
(ORC 4511.01(FFF))
301.19 COMMERCIAL TRACTOR.
   “Commercial tractor” means every motor vehicle having motive power designed
or used for drawing other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load
thereon, or designed or used for drawing other vehicles while carrying a
portion of the other vehicles, or the load thereon, or both. (ORC 4511.01(I))
301.20 CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   “Controlled-access highway” means every street or highway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right or access to or from the same except at certain points only and in a
manner as may be determined by the public authority having
jurisdiction over the street or highway.
(ORC 4511.01(CC))
301.21 CROSSWALK.
   “Crosswalk” means:   
   (a)    That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs, or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway, and in the absence of a sidewalk on one side of the
roadway, the part of a roadway included within the extension of the lateral
lines of the sidewalk at right angles to the center line;
   (b)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere, distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface,
which might be supplemented by contrasting pavement texture, style, or color;
   (c)   Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of this definition, the term
does not include an area where local authorities have placed signs indicating
no crossing.
      (ORC 4511.01(LL))
301.22 DRIVER OR OPERATOR.
   “Driver” or “operator” means any person who drives or is in actual physical
control of a vehicle. (ORC 4511.01(Y))
301.23 DRIVEWAY.
   “Driveway” means an access from a roadway to a building, site, or abutting
property.
(ORC 4511.01(IIII))
301.24 ELECTRIC BICYCLE.
   “Electric bicycle” means a “class 1 electric bicycle”, a “class 2 electric
bicycle”, or a “class 3 electric bicycle” as defined below.
   (a)   CLASS 1 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with fully
operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that provides
assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide assistance
when the bicycle reaches the speed of twenty miles per hour.
   (b)   CLASS 2 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with fully
operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that may provide
assistance regardless of whether the rider is pedaling and is not capable of
providing assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of twenty miles per
hour.
   (c)   CLASS 3 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with fully
operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that provides
assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide assistance
when the bicycle reaches the speed of twenty-eight miles per hour.
      (ORC 4511.01(SSS) - (VVV)
301.25 ELECTRONIC.
   “Electronic” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4501.01.
301.26 EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   “Emergency vehicle” means emergency vehicles of municipal, township or
county departments or public utility corporations, when identified as such as
required by law, the Director of Public Safety, or local authorities, and motor
vehicles when commandeered by a police officer.
(ORC 4511.01(D))
301.27 EXPLOSIVES.
   “Explosives” means any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is
intended for the purpose of producing an explosion that contains any oxidizing
and combustible units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities, or
packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion, or
by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause a sudden
generation of highly heated gases, such that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects, or of
destroying life or limb. Manufactured articles shall not be held to be
explosives when the individual units contain explosives in limited
quantities of such nature or in such packing that it is impossible to procure a
simultaneous or a destructive explosion of the units, to the injury of life,
limb, or property by fire, friction, concussion, percussion, or by a detonator,
such as fixed ammunition for small arms, firecrackers, or safety fuse matches.
(ORC 4511.01(T))
301.28 EXPRESSWAY.
   “Expressway” means a divided arterial street or highway for through traffic
with full or partial control of access with an excess of fifty percent (50%) of
all crossroads separated in grade.
(ORC 4511.01(ZZ))
301.29 FARM MACHINERY.
   “Farm machinery” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4501.01.
301.30 FLAMMABLE LIQUID.
   “Flammable liquid” means any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less,
as determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
(ORC 4511.01(U))
301.31 FREEWAY.
   “Freeway” means a divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with
crossroads separated in grade and with full control of access.
(ORC 4511.01(YY))
301.32 FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE.
   “Funeral escort vehicle” means any motor vehicle, including a funeral
hearse, while used to facilitate the movement of a funeral procession.
(ORC 4511.01(WW))
301.33 GROSS WEIGHT.
   “Gross weight” means the weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load
thereon.
(ORC 4511.01(V))
301.34 HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE.
   “Highway maintenance vehicle” means a vehicle used in snow and ice removal
or road surface maintenance, including a snow plow, traffic line striper, road
sweeper, mowing machine, asphalt distributing vehicle, or other such vehicle
designed for use in specific highway maintenance activities.
(ORC 4511.01(QQQ))
301.35 HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIGNAL.
   “Highway traffic signal” means a power-operated traffic control device by
which traffic is warned or directed to take some specific action. The term
includes a beacon, an in-road warning light, a lane-use control signal, and a
traffic control signal. The term does not include a power-operated sign,
steadily illuminated pavement marker, gate, flashing light signal, warning
light, or steady burning electric lamp.
(ORC 4511.01(MMM))
301.36 HYBRID BEACON.
   “Hybrid beacon” means a special type of beacon that is intentionally placed
in a dark mode where no indications are displayed between periods of operation
and, when operated, displays both steady and flashing highway traffic signal
indications. The term includes both of the following:
   (a)   An emergency-vehicle hybrid beacon used to warn and control traffic at
an otherwise unsignalized location to assist authorized emergency vehicles in
entering or crossing a street or highway;
   (b)   A pedestrian hybrid beacon used to warn and control traffic at an
otherwise unsignalized location to assist pedestrians in crossing a street or
highway at a marked crosswalk.
      (ORC 4511.01(LLL))
301.37 IN-ROAD WARNING LIGHT.
   “In-road warning light” means a special type of highway traffic signal that
is installed in the roadway surface to warn road users that they are
approaching a condition on or adjacent to the roadway that might not be readily
apparent and might require the road users to reduce speed or come to a complete
stop.
(ORC 4511.01(ZZZ))
301.38 INTERSECTION.
   “Intersection” means:
   (a)    The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at
any other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley, driveway,
or site roadway open to public travel with a public roadway or highway does not
constitute an intersection, unless the public roadway or highway at the
junction is controlled by a traffic control device.
   (b)    If a highway includes two roadways separated by a median, then every
crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting highway
constitutes a separate intersection if the opposing left-turn paths cross and
there is sufficient interior storage for the design vehicle. As used in this
division, “design vehicle” means the longest vehicle authorized under Ohio R.C.
5577.05 to operate on that roadway without a permit.
   (c)   At a location controlled by a highway traffic signal, regardless of
the distance between the separate intersections as described in subsection (b)
of this definition:
      (1)    If a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk has not been designated
on the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway and median constitute one intersection.
      (2)    Where a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk is designated on the
roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and any
area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
intersection.
      (3)   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure from
the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the far
side of the crosswalk. (ORC 4511.01(KK))
301.39 LANE-USE CONTROL SIGNAL.
   “Lane-use control signal” means a signal face or comparable display on a
full-matrix changeable message sign that displays indications to permit or
prohibit the use of specific lanes of a roadway or a shoulder where driving is
sometimes authorized or to indicate the impending
prohibition of such use.
(ORC 4511.01(AAAA))
301.40 LANED HIGHWAY.
   “Laned highway” means a highway the roadway of which is divided into two or
more clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
(ORC 4511.01(GG))
301.41 LIMITED DRIVING PRIVILEGES.
   “Limited driving privileges” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4501.01.
301.42 LOCAL AUTHORITIES.
   “Local authorities” means every county, municipal, and other local board or
body having authority to adopt police regulations under the Constitution and
laws of this state.
(ORC 4511.01(AA))
301.43 LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICE.
   “Low-speed micromobility device” means a device weighing less than 100
pounds that has handlebars, is propelled by an electric motor or human power,
and has an attainable speed on a paved level surface of not more than twenty
miles per hour when propelled by the electric motor.
(ORC 4511.01(WWW))
301.435 LOW-SPEED VEHICLE.
   "Low-speed vehicle" means a three- or four-wheeled motor vehicle with an
attainable speed in one mile on a paved level surface of more than twenty miles
per hour but not more than twenty-five miles per hour and with a gross vehicle
weight rating less than three thousand pounds.
(Ord. 4876. Passed 1-7-19.)
301.44 MEDIAN.
   “Median” means the portion of a highway separating opposing directions of
the traveled way or the area between two roadways of a divided highway,
measured from edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way. The median excludes
turn lanes. The width of a median may be different between intersections,
interchanges, and at opposite approaches of the same intersection.
(ORC 4511.01(NNN))
301.445 MINI-TRUCK.
   "Mini-truck" means a vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an
electric motor with a rated power of seven thousand five hundred watts or less
or an internal combustion engine with a piston displacement capacity of six
hundred sixty cubic centimeters or less, has a total dry weight of nine hundred
to two thousand two hundred pounds, contains an enclosed cabin and a seat for
the vehicle operator, resembles a pickup truck or van with a cargo area or bed
located at the rear of the vehicle, and was not originally manufactured to meet
federal motor vehicle safety standards.
(Ord. 4876. Passed 1-7-19.)
301.45 MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE OR MOTOR SCOOTER.
   “Motor-driven cycle or motor scooter” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
4501.01.
301.46 MOTOR VEHICLE.
   “Motor vehicle” means every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than
muscular power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except
motorized bicycles, electric bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power
shovels, power cranes and other equipment used in construction work, and not
designed for or employed in general highway transportation, hole-digging
machinery, well-drilling machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery,
and trailers designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place
of storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a
street or highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of
twenty-five miles per hour or less.
(ORC 4511.01(B))
301.47 MOTORCYCLE.
   “Motorcycle” means every motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat
or saddle for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than
three wheels in contact with the ground, including but not limited to motor
vehicles known as “motor-driven cycle”, “motor scooter”, “autocycle”, “cab-
enclosed motorcycle”, or “motorcycle” without regard to weight or brake
horsepower. (ORC 4511.01(C))
301.48 MOTORIZED BICYCLE OR MOPED.
   “Motorized bicycle” or “moped” means any vehicle having either two tandem
wheels or one wheel in the front and two wheels in the rear, that may be
pedaled, and that is equipped with a helper motor of not more than fifty cubic
centimeters piston displacement that produces not more than one brake
horsepower and is capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of not greater
than twenty miles per hour on a level surface. The terms do not include an
electric bicycle.
(ORC 4511.01(H))
301.49 MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR.
   “Motorized wheelchair” means any self-propelled vehicle designed for, and
used by, a person with a disability and that is incapable of a speed in excess
of eight miles per hour.
(ORC 4511.01(EEE))
301.50 MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR.
   “Multi-wheel agricultural tractor” means a type of agricultural tractor that
has two or more wheels or tires on each side of one axle at the rear of the
tractor, is designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery,
has no provision for carrying loads independently of the drawn vehicles or
machinery, and is used principally for agricultural purposes.
(ORC 4511.01(GGG))
301.51 NATURAL RESOURCES OFFICER.
   “Natural resources officer” means an officer appointed pursuant to Ohio R.C.
1501.24.
(ORC 4511.01(XXX))
301.52 OPERATE.
   “Operator” means to cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
(ORC 4511.01(HHH))
301.53 PARKED OR PARKING.
   “Parked” or “parking” means the standing of a vehicle upon a street, road,
alley, highway or public ground, whether accompanied or unaccompanied by a
driver, but does not include the temporary standing of a vehicle for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or loading merchandise or
passengers.
301.54 PEDESTRIAN.
   “Pedestrian” means any person on foot, in a motorized or non-motorized
wheelchair, or using another equivalent device, such as skates or a skateboard.
The term includes a personal delivery device as defined in Ohio R.C. 4511.513
unless the context clearly suggests otherwise.
(ORC 4511.01(X))
301.55 PERSON.
   “Person” means every natural person, firm, partnership, association or
corporation.
(ORC 4511.01(W))
301.56 POLE TRAILER.
   “Pole trailer” means every trailer or semitrailer attached to the towing
vehicle by means of a reach, pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to
the towing vehicle, and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular
shaped loads such as poles, pipes, or structural members capable, generally, of
sustaining themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
(ORC 4511.01(O))
301.57 POLICE OFFICER.
   “Police officer” means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic, or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
(ORC 4511.01(Z))
301.58 PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE.
   “Predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense” means any of the following:
   (a)    A violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.132,
4511.16, 4511.20, 4511.201, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32,
4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40,
4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451,
4511.452, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.48, 4511.481, 4511.49, 4511.50, 4511.511,
4511.53, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.56, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60,
4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.66, 4511.661, 4511.68, 4511.70, 4511.701, 4511.71,
4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, 4511.73, 4511.763, 4511.771, 4511.78, or
4511.84;
   (b)   A violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.17(A)(2), 4511.51(A) through (D), or
4511.74(A);
   (c)   A violation of any provision of Ohio R.C. 4511.01 through 4511.76 for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains the
provision violated;
   (d)   A violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.214;
   (e)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent
to any section or provision set forth or described in subsection (a), (b), (c)
or (d) of this definition.
      (ORC 4511.01(III))
301.59 PRIVATE ROAD.
   “Private road” means every way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner, and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons. (ORC 4511.01(DD))
301.60 PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   “Public safety vehicle” means any of the following:
   (a)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to a
municipality, township, or county, and private ambulances and nontransport
vehicles bearing license plates issued under Ohio R.C. 4503.49;
   (b)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state;
   (c)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the Director
of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to provide
emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and when operated by a
duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
volunteer fire department, and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The State Fire Marshal shall be designated by the
Director of Public Safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described herein;
   (d)   Vehicles used by fire departments, including motor vehicles when used
by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the fire department
service when identified as required by the Director of Public Safety;
   (e)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service to
an ill or injured person, when certified as a public safety vehicle, shall be
considered such a vehicle when transporting an ill or injured person to a
hospital, regardless of whether such vehicle has already passed a hospital;
   (f)   Vehicles used by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the
enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission as specified
in Ohio R.C. 5503.34. (ORC 4511.01(E))
301.61 RAILROAD.
   “Railroad” means a carrier of persons or property operating upon rails or
tracks placed principally on a private right-of-way.
(ORC 4511.01(P))
301.62 RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL.
   “Railroad sign or signal” means any sign, signal, or device erected by
authority of a public body or official or by a railroad, and intended to give
notice of the presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a train.
(ORC 4511.01(SS))
301.63 RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   “Residence district” means the territory, not comprising a business
district, fronting on a street or highway, including the street or highway,
where, for a distance of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with
residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
(ORC 4511.01(OO))
301.64 RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENT.
   “Ridesharing arrangement” includes the transportation of persons in a motor
vehicle where the transportation is incidental to another purpose of a
volunteer driver, and includes arrangements known as carpools, vanpools, and
buspools.
(ORC 4511.01(DDD))
301.65 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   “Right-of-way” means either of the following, as the context requires:
   (a)    The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly in a
lawful manner in the direction in which it, he or she is moving, in preference
to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different direction into
its, his or her path;
   (b)   A general term denoting land, property, or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, “right-of-way” includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch, and slopes extending to the rightof-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
      (ORC 4511.01(UU))
301.66 ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE.
   “Road service vehicle” means wreckers, utility repair vehicles, and state,
county, and municipal service vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of
flashing, rotating, or oscillating lights. (ORC 4511.01(JJJ))
301.67 ROADWAY.
   “Roadway” means that portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel and parking lanes, not including the berm, sidewalk,
or shoulder, even if the berm, sidewalk, or shoulder is used by a person
operating a bicycle or other human-powered vehicle. If a highway includes two
or more separate roadways, the term means any such roadway separately but not
all such roadways collectively.
(ORC 4511.01(EE))
301.68 ROUNDABOUT.
   “Roundabout” means a circular intersection with a yield control at each
entry, which permits a vehicle on the circulatory roadway to proceed, with
deflection of the approaching vehicles counter-clockwise around a central
island.
(ORC 4511.01(JJJJ))
301.69 RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE.
   “Rural mail delivery vehicle” means every vehicle used to deliver United
States mail on a rural mail delivery route.
(ORC 4511.01(VV))
301.70 SAFETY ZONE.
   “Safety zone” means the area or space officially set apart within a roadway
for the exclusive use of pedestrians, and protected or marked or indicated by
adequate signs so as to be plainly visible at all times.
(ORC 4511.01(MM))
301.71 SCHOOL BUS.
   “School bus” means every bus designed for carrying more than nine passengers
that is owned by a public, private, or governmental agency or institution of
learning and operated for the transportation of children to or from a school
session or a school function, or owned by a private person and operated for
compensation for the transportation of children to or from a school session or
a school function. The term does not include any of the following:
   (a)   A bus operated by a municipally owned transportation system, a mass
transit company operating exclusively within the territorial limits of a
municipal corporation, or within such limits and the territorial limits of
municipal corporations immediately contiguous to such municipal corporation,
nor a common passenger carrier certified by the public utilities commission
unless such bus is devoted exclusively to the transportation of children to and
from a school session or a school function;
   (b)   A van or bus used by a licensed child care center or type A family
child care home to transport children from the child care center or type A
family child care home to a school if the van or bus does not have more than
fifteen children in the van or bus at any time;
   (c)   An alternative vehicle as defined in Ohio R.C. 4511.76.
      (ORC 4511.01(F))
301.72 SEMITRAILER.
   “Semitrailer” means every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or
property with another and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part of
its own weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by
another vehicle.
(ORC 4511.01(N))
301.73 SHARED-USE PATH.
   “Shared-use path” means a bikeway outside the traveled way and physically
separated from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and
either within the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A
shared-use path also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers,
users of manual and motorized wheelchairs, and other authorized motorized and
nonmotorized users. A shared-use path does not include any trail that is
intended to be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or
other similar uses, or any other single track or natural surface trail that has
historically been reserved for non-motorized use.
(ORC 4511.01(PPP))
301.74 SHOULDER.
   “Shoulder” means a longitudinal area contiguous with the traveled way that
is used for accommodating vehicles that are stopped for an emergency and for
lateral support of base and surface courses; graded for emergency stopping;
either paved or unpaved; and when paved, may be open for parttime travel by
some or all vehicles or may also be available for use by pedestrians or
bicycles in the absence of other pedestrian or bicycle facilities.
(ORC 4511.01(KKKK))
301.75 SIDEWALK.
   “Sidewalk” means that portion of a street between the curb lines, or the
lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines or easements of
private property, that is paved or improved, and is intended for the use of
pedestrians.
(ORC 4511.01(FF))
301.76 SITE ROADWAY OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL.
   “Site roadway open to public travel” means a roadway or bikeway on site of a
shopping center, office park, airport, school, university, sports arena,
recreational park, or other similar business, government, or recreation
facility that is publicly or privately owned but where the public is allowed to
travel without full-time access restrictions. The term does not include a
roadway where access is restricted at all times by gates or guards to
residents, employees, or other specifically authorized persons, a parking area,
a driving aisle within a parking area, or a private highway-rail grade
crossing.
(ORC 4511.01(OOO))
301.77 STANDING.
   “Standing” when prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even
momentarily, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
301.78 STATE.
   “State” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4501.01.
301.79 STATE HIGHWAY.
   “State highway” means a highway under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Transportation, outside the limits of municipalities, provided that the
authority conferred upon the Director of Transportation in Ohio R.C. 5511.01 to
erect state highway route markers and signs directing traffic shall not be
modified by Ohio R.C. 4511.01 through 4511.79 and 4511.99.
(ORC 4511.01(II))
301.80 STATE ROUTE.
   “State route” means every highway which is designated with an official state
route number and so marked. (ORC 4511.01(JJ))
301.81 STOP.
   “Stop” when required, means a complete cessation of movement.
301.82 STOP INTERSECTION.
   “Stop intersection” means any intersection at one or more entrances of which
stop signs are erected. (ORC 4511.01(BBB))
301.83 STOPPING.
   “Stopping” when prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even
momentarily, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
301.84 STREET OR HIGHWAY.
   “Street or highway” means a general term for denoting a public way for
purposes of travel by vehicles and vulnerable road users, including the entire
area within the right-of-way.
(ORC 4511.01(BB))
301.85 THROUGH HIGHWAY.
   “Through highway” means every street or highway as provided in Ohio R.C.
4511.65, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(ORC 4511.01(HH))
301.86 THRUWAY.
   “Thruway” means a through highway whose entire roadway is reserved for
through traffic and on which roadway parking is prohibited.
(ORC 4511.01(AAA))
301.87 TRAFFIC.
   “Traffic” means pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars,
and other devices, either singly or together, while using for purposes of
travel any highway or site roadway open to public travel.
(ORC 4511.01(TT))
301.88 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE.
   “Traffic control device” means a flagger, sign, signal, marking,
channelization device, or other device that uses colors, shapes, symbols,
words, sounds, or tactile information for the primary purpose of communicating
a regulatory, warning, or guidance message to road users on
a street, highway, site roadway open to public travel, pedestrian facility,
bikeway, or pathway.
(ORC 4511.01(QQ))
301.89 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL.
   “Traffic control signal” means a highway traffic signal placed at an
intersection, movable bridge, fire station, mid-block crosswalk, alternating
one-way sections of a single lane road, private driveway, or other location
that requires conflicting traffic to be directed to stop and permitted to
proceed in an orderly manner. The term includes a vehicular signal indication,
a pedestrian signal indication, and a bicycle symbol signal indication. The
term does not include an emergency-vehicle hybrid beacon or a pedestrian hybrid
beacon.
(ORC 4511.01(RR))
301.90 TRAILER.
   “Trailer” means every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or
property wholly on its own structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle,
including any vehicle when formed by or operated as a combination of a
semitrailer and a vehicle of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a
trailer dolly, a vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural
production materials between a local place of storage or supply and the farm
when drawn or towed on a street or highway at a speed greater than twenty-five
miles per hour and a vehicle designed and used exclusively to transport a boat
between a place of storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn
or towed on a street or highway for a distance of more than ten miles or at a
speed of more than twenty-five miles per hour.
(ORC 4511.01(M))
301.91 TRAIN.
   “Train” means one or more locomotives coupled, with or without cars, that
operates on rails or tracks and to which all other traffic is required by law
to yield the right-of-way at highway-rail grade crossings. (ORC 4511.01(Q))
301.92 TRUCK.
   "Truck" means every motor vehicle designed and used to carry property, which
motor vehicle is rated one and one half tons or greater in capacity as
determined by its manufacturer, except trailers and semi-trailers. (Ord. 3473.
Passed 1-7-85.)
   In addition, "truck" shall also include every trailer, boat, camper or self-
propelled vehicle which at any point exceeds any of the following dimensions:
Height:   7 feet (measured from ground level) plus one addition 1½ ft. for
accessories, but no antenna shall be measured in determining the height,
Width:      7 feet,
Length:   20 feet.
(Ord. 2959. Passed 4-19-76.)
301.93 TWO-STAGE BICYCLE TURN BOX.
   “Two-stage bicycle turn box” means a designated area at an intersection that
is intended to provide bicyclists a place to wait for traffic to clear before
proceeding in a different direction of travel. (ORC 4511.01(CCCC))
301.94 TYPE A FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME.
   “Type A family child care home” has the same meaning as set forth in Ohio
R.C. 5104.01.
   
301.945 UNDER-SPEED VEHICLE.
   "Under-speed vehicle" means a three- or four-wheeled vehicle, including a
vehicle commonly known as a golf cart, with an attainable speed on a paved
level surface of not more than twenty miles per hour and with a gross vehicle
weight rating less than three thousand pounds.
(Ord. 4876. Passed 1-7-19.)
301.95 URBAN DISTRICT.
   “Urban district” means the territory contiguous to and including any street
or highway which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or
dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of
one-quarter of a mile or more, and the character of the territory is indicated
by official traffic-control devices.
(ORC 4511.01(PP))
   
301.955 UTILITY VEHICLE.
   "Utility vehicle" means a self-propelled vehicle designed with a bed,
principally for the purpose of transporting material or cargo in connection
with construction, agricultural, forestry, grounds maintenance, lawn and
garden, materials handling, or similar activities.
(Ord. 4876. Passed 1-7-19.)
301.96 VEHICLE.
   “Vehicle” means every device, including a bicycle, motorized bicycle and an
electric bicycle, in, upon, or by which any person or property may be
transported or drawn upon a highway. The term does not include any motorized
wheelchair, any electric personal assistive mobility device, any low-speed
micromobility device, any personal delivery device as defined in Ohio R.C.
4511.513, any device that is moved by power collected from overhead electric
trolley wires or that is used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, or
any device that is moved by human power.
(ORC 4511.01(A))
301.97 WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE.
   “Waste collection vehicle” means a vehicle used in the collection of
garbage, refuse, trash, or recyclable materials.
(ORC 4511.01(RRR))
301.98 WILDLIFE OFFICER.
   “Wildlife officer” means an officer designated pursuant to Ohio R.C.
1531.13.
(ORC 4511.01(YYY))
CHAPTER 303
Enforcement, Impounding and Penalty
303.01   Compliance with lawful order of police officer; fleeing.
303.02   Traffic direction in emergencies; obedience to school guard.
303.03   Officer may remove ignition key.
303.04   Road workers, motor vehicles and equipment excepted.
303.041   Emergency, public safety and coroner’s vehicles exempt.
303.05   Application to persons riding, driving animals upon roadway.
303.06   Freeway use prohibited by pedestrians, bicycles and animals.
303.07   Application to drivers of government vehicles.
303.08   Impounding and immobilization of vehicles; redemption.
303.081   Impounding vehicles on private residential or agricultural property.
303.082   Private tow-away zones.
303.083   Impounding vehicles on public property.
303.09   Providing false information to police officer.
303.10   Failure to appear in court.
303.99   General Traffic Code penalties.
303.991   Committing an offense while distracted penalty.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
See sectional histories for similar State law
Disposition of unclaimed vehicles - see Ohio R.C. 737.32, 4513.62 et seq.
Citations for minor misdemeanors - see Ohio R.C. 2935.26 et seq.
Power of trial court of record to suspend or revoke license for certain
violations - see Ohio R.C. 4507.16, 4507.34
State point system suspension - see Ohio R.C. 4507.40
Uniform application of Ohio Traffic Law - see Ohio R.C. 4511.06
Marking motor vehicles used by traffic officers - see Ohio R.C. 4549.13
Distinctive uniform required for traffic officers - see Ohio R.C. 4549.15
Exceptions for emergency or public safety vehicles - see TRAF.
331.20,
333.06
 
 
303.01 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWFUL ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER; FLEEING.
   (a)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control or regulate
traffic.
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring the person’s motor vehicle to a stop.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)    A violation of subsection (a) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (3)    Except as provided in subsections (c)(4) and (c)(5) of this
section, a violation of subsection (b) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)    A violation of subsection (b) of this section is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier
of fact finds by proof beyond a reasonable doubt that in committing the
offense, the offender was fleeing immediately after the commission of a felony.
      (5)    A.   A violation of subsection (b) of this section is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier
of fact finds any of the following by proof beyond a reasonable doubt:
            1.    The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a
proximate cause of serious physical harm to persons or property.
            2.    The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property.
         B.   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating
subsection (b) of this section and subsection (c)(5)A. of this section applies,
the sentencing court, in determining the seriousness of an offender’s conduct
for purposes of sentencing the offender for a violation of subsection (b) of
this section, shall consider, along with the factors set forth in Ohio R.C.
2929.12 and 2929.13 that are required to be considered, all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the pursuit;
            2.    The distance of the pursuit;
            3.    The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
            4.    Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or
stop signs during the pursuit;
            5.    The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
            6.    Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
            7.    Whether the offender committed a moving violation during the
pursuit;
            8.    The number of moving violations the offender committed during
the pursuit;
            9.    Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender’s
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense
   
   (d)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of
subsection (a) of this section, the court shall impose a class five suspension
from the range specified in Ohio R.C. 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender previously
has been found guilty of an offense under this section or under Ohio R.C.
2921.331 or any other substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, in addition
to any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class
onesuspension as described in Ohio R.C. 4510.02(A)(1). The court may grant
limited driving privileges to the offender on a suspension imposed for a
misdemeanor violation of this section as set forth in R.C. § 4510.021. No judge
shall suspend any portion of the suspension under a class one suspension of an
offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this subdivision.
(ORC 2921.331)
303.02 TRAFFIC DIRECTION IN EMERGENCIES; OBEDIENCE TO SCHOOL GUARD.
   (a)   Police officers shall direct or regulate traffic in accordance with
the provisions of this Traffic Code, provided that, in the event of fire or
other emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, they are
authorized to direct traffic as conditions may require notwithstanding the
provisions of this Traffic Code. Firemen, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity. The direction of traffic may be by word or audible signal, by gesture
or visible signal or by any combination thereof. No person shall fail to comply
with any lawful order or direction of any police officer or fireman issued
pursuant to this section.
   (b)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any school crossing guard invested with authority to direct, control or
regulate traffic in the vicinity of the school to which such guard may be
assigned.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
303.03 OFFICER MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway, or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking. The officer removing such key shall place
notification upon the vehicle detailing his name and badge number, the place
where such key may be reclaimed and the procedure for reclaiming such key. The
key shall be returned to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of
proof of ownership.
(ORC 4549.05)
303.04 ROAD WORKERS, MOTOR VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT EXCEPTED.
   (a)   The provisions of this Traffic Code do not apply to persons, teams,
motor vehicles, and other equipment while actually engaged in work upon the
surface of a highway within an area designated by traffic control devices, but
apply to such persons and vehicles when traveling to or from such work.
   (b)   The driver of a highway maintenance vehicle owned by this state or any
political subdivision of this state, while the driver is engaged in the
performance of official duties upon a street or highway, provided the highway
maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights and such other markings as
are required by law, and such lights are in operation when the driver and
vehicle are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal prosecution for
violations of Sections
331.01 to
331.04,
331.06 to
331.08,
331.31,
333.04,
337.01 and Ohio R.C. 4511.66 and 5577.01 to 5577.09.
   (c)   (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of as highway maintenance
vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of Sections
331.01 to
331.04,
331.06 to
331.08,
331.31,
333.04,
337.01 or Ohio R.C. 4511.66 or 5577.01 to 5577.09.
      (2)   This section does not exempt a driver of a vehicle who is not a
state employee and who is engaged in the transport of highway maintenance
equipment from criminal liability for a violation of Ohio R.C. 5577.01 to
5577.09.
   (d)   As used in this section, “engaged in the performance of official
duties” includes driving a highway maintenance vehicle to and from the
manufacturer or vehicle maintenance provider and transporting a highway
maintenance vehicle, equipment, or materials to and from a work location. (ORC
4511.04)
303.041 EMERGENCY, PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORONER’S VEHICLES EXEMPT.
   (a)   Ohio R.C. 4511.12, 4511.13, 4511.131, 4511.132, 4511.14, 4511.202,
4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28,
4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36,
4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431,
4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60, 4511.61,
4511.62, 4511.66, 4511.68, 4511.681 and 4511.69 and all sections of this
Traffic Code or other municipal ordinances that are substantially equivalent to
the sections listed above, do not apply to the driver of an emergency vehicle
or public safety vehicle if the emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle is
responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and displaying at least one
flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle and if the
driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle or
bell. This section does not relieve the driver of an emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of
all persons and property upon the highway. (ORC 4511.041)
   (b)   Ohio R.C. 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30,
4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38 and 4511.66, and
all sections of this Traffic Code or other municipal ordinances that are
substantially equivalent to the sections listed above, do not apply to a
coroner, deputy coroner, or coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle in
accordance with Ohio R.C. 4513.171. This section does not relieve a coroner,
deputy coroner, or coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the
duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon
the highway. (ORC 4511.042)
303.05 APPLICATION TO PERSONS RIDING, DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAY.
   Every person riding, driving or leading an animal upon a roadway shall be
subject to the provisions of this Traffic Code applicable to the driver of a
vehicle, except those provisions of such sections which by their nature are
inapplicable. (ORC 4511.05)
303.06 FREEWAY USE PROHIBITED BY PEDESTRIANS, BICYCLES AND ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:
      (1)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-
of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance;
      (2)   Occupy any space within the limits of the right of way of a
freeway, with: an animal-drawn vehicle; a ridden or led animal; herded animals;
a pushcart; a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the roadway
and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked for
bicycle use; an electric bicycle; a bicycle with motor attached; a motor driven
cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower; an
agricultural tractor; farm machinery; except in the performance of public works
or official duties.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.051)
303.07 APPLICATION TO DRIVERS OF GOVERNMENT VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this Traffic Code applicable to the drivers of vehicles
shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or operated by the United
States, any state or any political subdivision thereof, including this
Municipality, except as may be otherwise provided by law and subject to such
specific exceptions as are set forth with reference to authorized emergency and
public safety vehicles.
303.08 IMPOUNDING AND IMMOBILIZATION OF VEHICLES; REDEMPTION.
   (a)   Parking Violation, Vacant Car: Whenever any police officer finds a
vehicle unattended upon any street or land owned by the City and parked in
violation of regulation, law or the ordinances of the City, such officer may
provide for the removal of such vehicle to an approved garage or other place of
safety so as to impound the vehicle under this section.
   (b)   Unpaid Parking Ticket: Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle
upon any street or land owned by the City, whether or not attended and whether
or not being operated, having two or more parking tickets previously issued
which have remain unpaid for ten days or more, and if the owner or operator of
such vehicle has failed to post bail on such previous tickets and has failed to
appear in court to answer to the charges contained therein, the officer may:
      (1)   Provide for the removal of such vehicle to an approved garage or
other place of safety so as to impound the vehicle under this section; or
      (2)   Cause such vehicle to be immobilized by the installation of a wheel
clamp, boot or similar device (an “immobilization device”) so as to impound the
vehicle in place under this section.
   (c)   To accomplish the purposes of this section or of any other section of
this Traffic Code which provides for a vehicle to be removed or impounded, a
police officer may secure the services of a private tow truck operator with a
tow truck who may cause a vehicle to be so removed.
   (d)   Any motor vehicle which has been impounded by a police officer of the
City shall be stored at such place or places as may be designated from time to
time by the City Manager.
   (e)   Any motor vehicle which has been immobilized by a police officer of
the City shall remain subject to all parking regulations and ordinances of the
City, including the 18-hour rule.
   (f)   No person shall remove, deface, damage, destroy, tamper with or
attempt to remove, deface, damage, destroy or tamper with, any immobilization
device installed pursuant to this section. A violation of this subsection shall
constitute a misdemeanor of the fourth degree for the first offense, and a
misdemeanor of the third degree for each subsequent offense. This subsection
shall not apply to a police officer of the City, bailiff of the municipal
court, or other authorized person while releasing the motor vehicle to its
owner pursuant to subsection (i) hereof.
   (g)   Notice of the immobilization, removal or impounding of such motor
vehicle shall be mailed to the owner thereof within one (1) regular business
day after the vehicle is immobilized or ordered into storage, or after the
officials of the City discover the name and address of the owner, whichever
occurs later.
   (h)   The City shall not be obligated to guard, protect or in any way to
care for motor vehicles or their contents. The City shall have no liability or
responsibility whatsoever for any damage inflicted upon, or theft of, such
motor vehicles, their parts, accessories or contents, by persons other than
agents or employees of the City.
   (i)   Release of vehicle. Upon the payment by the owner or operator of the
costs incurred by the immobilization, removal or impounding of such motor
vehicle, and upon posting of bail in an amount equal to the maximum fine for
the violation(s) charged against such vehicle, its owner or operator, the
police officer having custody or control of the impounded motor vehicle shall
release it to such owner. For purposes of this subsection, “costs” shall
include all of the following which are applicable:
      (1)   Fees of the tow truck and operator;
      (2)   Storage fees; and
      (3)   An immobilization fee, which shall be established and updated from
time to time by the City Manager in such amount as will reasonably recover the
actual administrative costs associated with the immobilization and release of
an immobilized vehicle. (Ord. 4807. Passed 8-10-15.)
303.081 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES ON PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL OR AGRICULTURAL PROPERTY.
   (a)   (1)   The chief of a law enforcement agency of the municipal
corporation, upon complaint of any person adversely affected may order into
storage any motor vehicle, other than an abandoned junk motor vehicle as
defined in Ohio R.C. 4513.63, that has been left on private residential or
private agricultural property for at least four hours without the permission of
the person having the right to the possession of the property. The chief, upon
complaint of a repair garage or place of storage, may order into storage any
motor vehicle, other than an abandoned junk motor vehicle, that has been left
at the garage or place of storage for a longer period than that agreed upon.
When ordering a motor vehicle into storage pursuant to this section, the chief
may arrange for the removal of the motor vehicle by a towing service and shall
designate a storage facility.
      (2)   A towing service towing a motor vehicle under subsection (a)(1) of
this section shall remove the motor vehicle in accordance with that subsection.
The towing service shall deliver the motor vehicle to the location designated
by the chief not more than two hours after the time it is removed from the
private property, unless the towing service is unable to deliver the motor
vehicle within two hours due to an uncontrollable force, natural disaster, or
other event that is not within the power of the towing service.
      (3)   Subject to subsection (b) of this section, the owner of a motor
vehicle that has been removed pursuant to this subsection may recover the
vehicle only in accordance with subsection (d) of this section.
      (4)   As used in this section "private residential property" means
private property on which is located one or more structures that are used as a
home, residence or sleeping place by one or more persons, if no more than three
separate households are maintained in the structure or structures. "Private
residential property" does not include any private property on which is located
one or more structures that are used as a home, residence or sleeping place by
two or more persons, if more than three separate households are maintained in
the structure or structures.
   (b)   If the owner or operator of a motor vehicle that has been ordered into
storage pursuant to subsection (a)(1) of this section arrives after the motor
vehicle has been prepared for removal, but prior to its actual removal from the
property, the towing service shall give the owner or operator oral or written
notification at the time of such arrival that the vehicle owner or operator may
pay a fee of not more than one-half of the fee for the removal of the motor
vehicle established by the Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted under
Ohio R.C. 4921.25, in order to obtain release of the motor vehicle. However, if
the vehicle is within a municipal corporation and the municipal corporation has
established a vehicle removal fee, the towing service shall give the owner or
operator oral or written notification that the owner or operator may pay not
more than one-half of that fee to obtain release of the motor vehicle. That fee
may be paid by use of a major credit card unless the towing service uses a
mobile credit card processor and mobile service is not available at the time of
the transaction.
   Upon payment of the applicable fee, the towing service shall give the
vehicle owner or operator a receipt showing both the full amount normally
assessed and the actual amount received and shall release the motor vehicle to
the owner or operator. Upon its release, the owner or operator immediately
shall move it so that it is not on the private residential or private
agricultural property without the permission of the person having the right to
possession of the property, or is not at the garage or place of storage without
the permission of the owner, whichever is applicable.
   (c)   (1)   The chief of a law enforcement agency in the municipal
corporation shall maintain a record of motor vehicles that the chief orders
into storage pursuant to subsection (a)(1) of this section. The record shall
include an entry for each such motor vehicle that identifies the motor
vehicle’s license number, make, model and color, the location from which it was
removed, the date and time of its removal, the telephone number of the person
from whom it may be recovered, and the address of the place to which it has
been taken and from which it may be recovered. The chief shall provide any
information in the record that pertains to a particular motor vehicle to any
person who, either in person or pursuant to a telephone call, identifies self
as the owner or operator of the motor vehicle and requests information
pertaining to its location.
      (2)   Any person who registers a complaint that is the basis of the
chief’s order for the removal and storage of a motor vehicle under subsection
(a)(1) of this section shall provide the identity of the law enforcement agency
with which the complaint was registered to any person who identifies self as
the owner or operator of the motor vehicle and requests information pertaining
to its location.
   (d)   (1)   The owner or lienholder of a motor vehicle that is ordered into
storage pursuant to subsection (a)(1) of this section may reclaim it upon both
of the following:
         A.   Payment of all applicable fees established by the Public
Utilities Commission in rules adopted under Ohio R.C. 4921.25 or, if the
vehicle was towed within a municipal corporation that has established fees for
vehicle removal and storage, payment of all applicable fees established by the
municipal corporation.
         B.   Presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by a
certificate of title to the motor vehicle, a certificate of registration for
the motor vehicle, or a lease agreement.
      (2)   When the owner of a vehicle towed under this section retrieves the
vehicle, the towing service or storage facility in possession of the vehicle
shall give the owner written notice that if the owner disputes that the motor
vehicle was lawfully towed, the owner may be able to file a civil action under
Ohio R.C. 4513.611.
      (3)   Upon presentation of proof of ownership as required under
subsection (d)(1)B. of this section, the owner of a motor vehicle that is
ordered into storage under subsection (a)(1) of this section may retrieve any
personal items from the motor vehicle without retrieving the vehicle and
without paying any fee. However, a towing service or storage facility may
charge an after-hours retrieval fee established by the Public Utilities
Commission in rules adopted under Ohio R.C. 4921.25 if the owner retrieves the
personal items after hours, unless the towing service or storage facility fails
to provide the notice required under division (B)(3) of Ohio R.C. 4513.69, if
applicable. The owner of a motor vehicle shall not do either of the following:
         A.   Retrieve any personal item that has been determined by the chief
to be necessary to a criminal investigation;
         B.   Retrieve any personal item from a vehicle if it would endanger
the safety of the owner unless the owner agrees to sign a waiver of liability.
For purposes of subsection (d)(2) of this section, “personal items” do not
include any items that are attached to the motor vehicle.
      (4)   If a motor vehicle that is ordered into storage pursuant to
subsection (a)(1) of this section remains unclaimed by the owner for thirty
days, the procedures established by Ohio R.C. 4513.61 and 4513.62 apply.
   (e)   (1)   No person shall remove, or cause the removal of, any motor
vehicle from any private residential or private agricultural property other
than in accordance with subsection (a)(1) of this section or Ohio R.C. 4513.61
to 4513.65.
      (2)   No towing service or storage facility shall fail to comply with the
requirements of this section.
   (f)   This section does not apply to any private residential or private
agricultural property that is established as a private tow-away zone in
accordance with Section
303.082.
   (g)   Whoever violates subsection (e) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.60)
303.082 PRIVATE TOW-AWAY ZONES.
   (a)   The owner of a private property may establish a private tow-away zone,
but may do so only if all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The owner of the private property posts on the property a sign,
that is at least eighteen inches by twenty-four inches in size, that is visible
from all entrances to the property, and that includes all of the following
information:
         A.   A statement that the property is a tow-away zone;
         B.   A description of persons authorized to park on the property. If
the property is a residential property, the owner of the private property may
include on the sign a statement that only tenants and guests may park in the
private tow-away zone, subject to the terms of the property owner. If the
property is a commercial property, the owner of the private property may
include on the sign a statement that only customers may park in the private
tow-away zone. In all cases, if it is not apparent which persons may park in
the private tow-away zone, the owner of the private property shall include on
the sign the address of the property on which the private tow-away zone is
located, or the name of the business that is located on the property designated
as a private tow-away zone.
         C.   If the private tow-away zone is not enforceable at all times, the
times during which the parking restrictions are enforced;
         D.   The telephone number and the address of the place from which a
towed vehicle may be recovered at any time during the day or night;
         E.   A statement that the failure to recover a towed vehicle may
result in the loss of title to the vehicle as provided in division (B) of Ohio
R.C. 4505.101.
In order to comply with the requirements of subsection (a)(1) of this section,
the owner of a private property may modify an existing sign by affixing to the
existing sign stickers or an addendum in lieu of replacing the sign.
      (2)   A towing service ensures that a vehicle towed under this section is
taken to a location from which it may be recovered that complies with all of
the following:
         A.   It is located within twenty-five linear miles of the location of
the private tow-away zone, unless it is not practicable to take the vehicle to
a place of storage within twenty-five linear miles.
         B.   It is well-lighted.
         C.   It is on or within a reasonable distance of a regularly scheduled
route of one or more modes of public transportation, if any public
transportation is available in the municipal corporation or township in which
the private tow-away zone is located.
   (b)   (1)   If a vehicle is parked on private property that is established
as a private tow- away zone in accordance with subsection (a) of this section,
without the consent of the owner of the private property or in violation of any
posted parking condition or regulation, the owner of the private property may
cause the removal of the vehicle by a towing service. The towing service shall
remove the vehicle in accordance with this section. The vehicle owner and the
operator of the vehicle are considered to have consented to the removal and
storage of the vehicle, to the payment of the applicable fees established by
the Public Service Commission in rules adopted under Ohio R.C. 4921.25, and to
the right of a towing service to obtain title to the vehicle if it remains
unclaimed as provided in Ohio R.C. 4505.101. The owner or lienholder of a
vehicle that has been removed under this section, subject to subsection (c) of
this section, may recover the vehicle in accordance with subsection (g) of this
section.
      (2)   If a municipal corporation requires tow trucks and tow truck
operators to be licensed, no owner of a private property located within the
municipal corporation shall cause the removal and storage of any vehicle
pursuant to subsection (b) of this section by an unlicensed tow truck or
unlicensed tow truck operator.
      (3)   No towing service shall remove a vehicle from a private tow-away
zone except pursuant to a written contract for the removal of vehicles entered
into with the owner of the private property on which the private tow-away zone
is located.
   (c)   If the owner or operator of a vehicle that is being removed under
authority of subsection (b) of this section, arrives after the vehicle has been
prepared for removal, but prior to the actual removal from the property, the
towing service shall give the vehicle owner or operator oral or written
notification at the time of such arrival that the vehicle owner or operator may
pay a fee of not more than one-half of the fee for the removal of the vehicle
established by the Public Service Commission in rules adopted under Ohio R.C.
4921.25, in order to obtain release of the vehicle. That fee may be paid by use
of a major credit card unless the towing service uses a mobile credit card
processor and mobile service is not available at the time of the transaction.
Upon payment of that fee, the towing service shall give the vehicle owner or
operator a receipt showing both the full amount normally assessed and the
actual amount received and shall release the vehicle to the owner or operator.
Upon its release the owner or operator immediately shall move the vehicle so
that the vehicle is not parked on the private property established as a private
tow-away zone without the consent of the owner of the private property or in
violation of any posted parking condition or regulation.
   (d)   (1)   Prior to towing a vehicle under subsection (b) of this section,
a towing service shall make all reasonable efforts to take as many photographs
as necessary to evidence that the vehicle is clearly parked on private property
in violation of a private tow-away zone established under subsection (a) of
this section.
   The towing service shall record the time and date of the photographs taken
under this section. The towing service shall retain the photographs and the
record of the time and date, in electronic or printed form, for at least thirty
days after the date on which the vehicle is recovered by the owner or
lienholder or at least two years after the date on which the vehicle was towed,
whichever is earlier.
      (2)   A towing service shall deliver a vehicle towed under subsection (b)
of this section to the location from which it may be recovered not more than
two hours after the time it was removed from the private tow-away zone, unless
the towing service is unable to deliver the motor vehicle within two hours due
to an uncontrollable force, natural disaster, or other event that is not within
the power of the towing service.
   (e)   (1)   If an owner of a private property that is established as a
private tow-away zone in accordance with subsection (a) of this section causes
the removal of a vehicle from that property by a towing service under
subsection (b) of this section, the towing service, within two hours of
removing the vehicle, shall provide notice to the law enforcement agency of the
municipal corporation concerning all of the following:
         A.   The vehicle’s license number, make, model and color;
         B.   The location from which the vehicle was removed;
         C.   The date and time the vehicle was removed;
         D.   The telephone number of the person from whom the vehicle may be
recovered;
         E.   The address of the place from which the vehicle may be recovered.
      (2)   The chief of a law enforcement agency of the municipal corporation
shall maintain a record of any vehicle removed from private property in the
chief’s jurisdiction that is established as a private tow-away zone of which
the chief has received notice under this section. The record shall include all
information submitted by the towing service. The chief shall provide any
information in the record that pertains to a particular vehicle to a person
who, either in person or pursuant to a telephone call, identifies self as the
owner, operator or lienholder of the vehicle, and requests information
pertaining to the vehicle.
   (f)   (1)   When a vehicle is removed from private property in accordance
with this section, within three business days of the removal, the towing
service or storage facility from which the vehicle may be recovered shall cause
a search to be made of either of the following to ascertain the identity of the
owner and any lienholder of the vehicle:
         A.   The records of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles;
         B.   The records of any vendor or vendors, approved by the Registrar
of Motor Vehicles, that are capable of providing real-time access to owner and
lienholder information.
      (2)   The towing service or storage facility may search the National
Motor Vehicle Title Information System in order to determine the state in which
the vehicle is titled. The entity that provides the record of the owner and any
lienholder under this division shall ensure that such information is provided
in a timely manner.
      (3)   Subject to subsection (f)(6) of this section, the towing service or
storage facility shall send notice to the vehicle owner and any known
lienholder as follows:
         A.   Within five business days after the applicable entity provides
the identity of the owner and any lienholder of the motor vehicle, if the
vehicle remains unclaimed, to the owner’s and lienholder’s last known address
by certified or express mail with return receipt requested, by certified mail
with electronic tracking, or by a commercial carrier service utilizing any form
of delivery requiring a signed receipt.
         B.   If the vehicle remains unclaimed thirty days after the first
notice is sent, in the manner required under subsection (f)(3)A. of this
section.
      (4)   Sixty days after any notice sent pursuant to subsection (f)(3) of
this section is received, as evidenced by a receipt signed by any person, or
the towing service or storage facility has been notified that delivery was not
possible, the towing service or storage facility, if authorized under Ohio R.C.
4505.101(B), may initiate the process for obtaining a certificate of title to
the motor vehicle as provided in that section.
      (5)   A towing service or storage facility that does not receive a signed
receipt of notice, or a notification that delivery was not possible, shall not
obtain, and shall not attempt to obtain, a certificate of title to the motor
vehicle under Ohio R.C. 4505.101(B).
      (6)   With respect to a vehicle concerning which a towing service or
storage facility is not eligible to obtain title under Ohio R.C. 4505.101, the
towing service or storage facility need only comply with the initial notice
required under subsection (f)(3)A. of this section.
   (g)   (1)   The owner or lienholder of a vehicle that is removed under
subsection (b) of this section may reclaim it upon both of the following:
         A.   Presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by a
certificate of title to the vehicle, a certificate of registration for the
motor vehicle or a lease agreement;
         B.   Payment of the following fees:
            1.   All applicable fees established by the Public Utilities
Commission in rules adopted under Ohio R.C. 4921.25, except that the lienholder
of a vehicle may retrieve the vehicle without paying any storage fee for the
period of time that the vehicle was in the possession of the towing service or
storage facility prior to the date the lienholder received the notice sent
under subsection (f)(1)A. of this section;
            2.   If notice has been sent to the owner and lienholder as
described in subsection (f) of this section, a processing fee of twenty-five
dollars ($25.00).
      (2)   A towing service or storage facility in possession of a vehicle
that is removed under authority of subsection (b) of this section shall show
the vehicle owner, operator or lienholder who contests the removal of the
vehicle all photographs taken under subsection (d) of this section. Upon
request, the towing service or storage facility shall provide a copy of all
photographs in the medium in which the photographs are stored, whether paper,
electronic, or otherwise.
      (3)   When the owner of a vehicle towed under this section retrieves the
vehicle, the towing service or storage facility in possession of the vehicle
shall give the owner written notice that if the owner disputes that the motor
vehicle was lawfully towed, the owner may be able to file a civil action under
Ohio R.C. 4513.611.
      (4)   Upon presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by
a certificate of title to the vehicle, a certificate of registration for the
motor vehicle or a lease agreement, the owner of a vehicle that is removed
under authority of subsection (b) of this section may retrieve any personal
items from the vehicle without retrieving the vehicle and without paying any
fee. The owner of the vehicle shall not retrieve any personal items from a
vehicle if it would endanger the safety of the owner, unless the owner agrees
to sign a waiver of liability. For purposes of subsection (g)(4) of this
section, “personal items” do not include any items that are attached to the
vehicle.
   (h)   No person shall remove, or cause the removal of any vehicle from
private property that is established as a private tow-away zone under this
section, or store such a vehicle other than in accordance with this section, or
otherwise fail to comply with any applicable requirement of this section.
   (i)   This section does not affect or limit the operation of Ohio R.C.
4513.60 or Ohio R.C. 4513.61 to 4613.65 as they relate to property other than
private property that is established as a private tow-away zone under
subsection (a) of this section.
   (j)   Whoever violates subsection (h) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
   (k)   As used in this section, “owner of a private property” or “owner of
the private property” includes, with respect to a private property, any of the
following:
      (1)   Any person who holds title to the property;
      (2)   Any person who is a lessee or sublessee with respect to a lease or
sublease agreement for the property;
      (3)   A person who is authorized to manage the property;
      (4)   A duly authorized agent of any person listed in subsections (k)(1)
to (3) of this section. (ORC 4513.601)
303.083 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (a)   The chief of a law enforcement agency of the municipal corporation,
within the chief’s respective territorial jurisdiction, or a state highway
patrol trooper, upon notification to the chief of such action and of the
location of the place of storage, may order into storage any motor vehicle,
including an abandoned junk motor vehicle as defined in Ohio R.C. 4513.63,
that:
      (1)   Has come into the possession of the chief, or state highway patrol
trooper as a result of the performance of the chief’s or trooper’s duties; or
      (2)   Has been left on a public street or other property open to the
public for purposes of vehicular travel, or upon or within the right-of-way of
any road or highway, for forty-eight hours or longer without notification to
the chief of the reasons for leaving the motor vehicle in such place. However,
when such a motor vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic it may be
ordered into storage immediately unless either of the following applies:
         A.   The vehicle was involved in an accident and is subject to Ohio
R.C. 4513.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         B.   The vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle. If the vehicle is a
commercial motor vehicle, the chief, or state highway patrol trooper shall
allow the owner or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to arrange for the
removal of the motor vehicle within a period of time specified by the chief, or
state highway patrol trooper. If the chief, or state highway patrol trooper
determines that the vehicle cannot be removed within the specified period of
time, the chief, or state highway patrol trooper shall order the removal of the
vehicle.
      (3)   Subject to subsection (c) of this section, the chief shall
designate the place of storage of any motor vehicle so ordered removed.
   (b)   If the chief, or a state highway patrol trooper issues an order under
subsection (a) of this section and arranges for the removal of a motor vehicle
by a towing service, the towing service shall deliver the motor vehicle to the
location designated by the chief not more than two hours after the time it is
removed.
   (c)   (1)   The chief shall cause a search to be made of the records of an
applicable entity listed in Ohio R.C. 4513.601(F)(1) to ascertain the identity
of the owner and any lienholder of a motor vehicle ordered into storage by the
chief, or by a state highway patrol trooper within five business days of the
removal of the vehicle. Upon obtaining such identity, the chief shall send or
cause to be sent to the owner or lienholder at the owner’s or lienholder’s last
known address by certified or express mail with return receipt requested, by
certified mail with electronic tracking, or by a commercial carrier service
utilizing any form of delivery requiring a signed receipt. The notice shall
inform the owner or lienholder that the motor vehicle will be declared a
nuisance and disposed of if not claimed within ten days of the date of the
sending of the notice.
      (2)   A.   The owner or lienholder of the motor vehicle is responsible
for payment of any expenses or charges incurred in its removal and storage and
may reclaim the motor vehicle upon payment of those expenses or charges, and
presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by a certificate of
title or memorandum certificate of title to the motor vehicle, a certificate of
registration for the motor
vehicle, or a lease agreement. Upon presentation of proof of ownership
evidenced as provided above, the owner of the motor vehicle also may retrieve
any personal items from the vehicle without retrieving the vehicle and without
paying any fee. However, a towing service or storage facility may charge an
after-hours retrieval fee established by the Public Utilities Commission in
rules adopted under Ohio R.C. 4921.25 if the owner retrieves the personal items
after hours, unless the towing service or storage facility fails to provide the
notice required under Ohio R.C. 4513.69(B)(3), if applicable. However, the
owner shall not do either of the following:
            1.   Retrieve any personal item that has been determined by the
chief, or a state highway patrol trooper, as applicable, to be necessary to a
criminal investigation;
            2.   Retrieve any personal item from a vehicle if it would endanger
the safety of the owner, unless the owner agrees to sign a waiver of liability.
         B.   For purposes of subsection (c)(2) of this section, “personal
items” do not include any items that are attached to the vehicle.
      (3)   If the owner or lienholder of the motor vehicle reclaims it after a
search of the applicable records has been conducted and after notice has been
sent to the owner and any lienholder as described in this section, and the
search was conducted by the place of storage, and the notice was sent to the
motor vehicle owner by the place of storage, the owner or lienholder shall pay
to the place of storage a processing fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00), in
addition to any expenses or charges incurred in the removal and storage of the
vehicle.
   (d)   If the owner or lienholder makes no claim to the motor vehicle within
ten days of the date of sending the notice, and if the vehicle is to be
disposed of at a public auction as provided in Ohio R.C. 4513.62 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the chief, without charge to any
party, shall file with the Clerk of Courts of the county in which the place of
storage is located an affidavit showing compliance with the requirements of
this section. Upon presentation of the affidavit, the Clerk, without charge,
shall issue a salvage certificate of title, free and clear of all liens and
encumbrances, to the chief. If the vehicle is to be disposed of to a motor
vehicle salvage dealer or other facility as provided in Ohio R.C. 4513.62 or
any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the chief shall execute in
triplicate an affidavit, as prescribed by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
describing the motor vehicle and the manner in which it was disposed of, and
that all requirements of this section have been complied with. The chief shall
retain the original of the affidavit for the chief’s records, and shall furnish
two copies to the motor vehicle salvage dealer or other facility. Upon
presentation of a copy of the affidavit by the motor vehicle salvage dealer,
the Clerk of Courts, within thirty days of the presentation, shall issue a
salvage certificate of title, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances.
   (e)   Whenever a motor vehicle salvage dealer or other facility receives an
affidavit for the disposal of a motor vehicle as provided in this section, the
dealer or facility shall not be required to obtain an Ohio certificate of title
to the motor vehicle in the dealer’s or facility’s own name if the vehicle is
dismantled or destroyed and both copies of the affidavit are delivered to the
Clerk of Courts.
   (f)   No towing service or storage facility shall fail to comply with this
section.
(ORC 4513.61)
303.09 PROVIDING FALSE INFORMATION TO POLICE OFFICER.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly present, display or orally communicate a
false name, social security number or date of birth to a law enforcement
officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic ticket or
complaint.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC 4513.361)
303.10 FAILURE TO APPEAR IN COURT.
   (a)   No person who is issued a traffic ticket for the violation of any
provisions of this Traffic Code, whereon a certain time and date are given when
the accused is required to appear in court to answer the charge or charges
made, shall fail to appear in court at the time and on the date given.
   (b)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
303.99 GENERAL TRAFFIC CODE PENALTIES.
   (a)   General Misdemeanor Classifications. Whoever violates any provision of
this Traffic Code for which violation no penalty is otherwise provided, is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
   (b)   Penalties.  
      (1)   Any natural person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor shall be imprisoned for a definite term or fined, or both, which
term of imprisonment and fine shall be fixed by the court as provided in this
subsection.
 
Classification of Maximum Term    Maximum
Misdemeanor       of Imprisonment Fine
First degree      180 days        $1,000.00
Second degree     90 days         750.00
Third degree      60 days         500.00
Fourth degree     30 days         250.00
Minor             No imprisonment 150.00
 
      (2)   In addition to any such penalty, the court may require any person
who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor to make restitution for
all or part of the property damage that is caused by his offense.
      (3)   Regardless of the penalties provided in subsection (1) above, an
organization (as opposed to a natural person) convicted of an offense pursuant
to Section
501.11 shall be fined, and the penalty of imprisonment shall not apply. Such
fines shall be fixed by the court as follow:
 
Type of Misdemeanor Maximum Fine
First degree        $5,000.00
Second degree       4,000.00
Third degree        3,000.00
Fourth degree       2,000.00
Minor               1,000.00
 
      (4)   When an organization is convicted of an offense, and the section
defining the offense includes a penalty and plainly indicates a purpose to
impose that penalty upon organizations, then such penalty shall be imposed in
lieu of the penalty provided in subsection (b)(3) hereof.
      (5)   When an organization is convicted of an offense, and the section
defining the offense includes a penalty and that penalty includes a higher fine
than that provided in subsection (b)(3) hereof, then the penalty imposed shall
be pursuant to that higher penalty.
      (6)   Subsection (b)(3) does not prevent the imposition of available
civil sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to
Section
501.11 , either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to
subsection (b)(3) hereof.
303.991 COMMITTING AN OFFENSE WHILE DISTRACTED PENALTY.
   (a)   As used in this section and each section of the Traffic Code where
specified, all of the following apply:
      (1)   “Distracted” means doing either of the following while operating a
vehicle:
         A.   Using an electronic wireless communications device, as defined in
Ohio R.C. 4511.204, in violation of that section.
         B.   Engaging in any activity that is not necessary to the operation
of a vehicle and impairs, or reasonably would be expected to impair, the
ability of the operator to drive the vehicle safely.
      (2)   “Distracted” does not include operating a motor vehicle while
wearing an earphone or earplug over or in both ears at the same time. A person
who so wears earphones or earplugs may be charged with a violation of Section
331.43 .
      (3)   “Distracted” does not include conducting any activity while
operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or on behalf of a utility,
provided that the driver of the vehicle is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage or a circumstance affecting the health or safety of individuals.
As used in subsection (a)(3) of this section:
         A.   “Utility” means an entity specified in division (A), (C), (D),
(E) or (G) of Ohio R.C. 4905.03.
         B.   “Utility service vehicle” means a vehicle owned or operated by a
utility.
   (b)   If an offender violates any section of this Traffic Code which
provides for an enhanced penalty for an offense committed while distracted and
the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
violation, the offender is subject to the applicable penalty for the violation
and, notwithstanding Ohio R.C. 2929.28, is subject to an additional fine of not
more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) as follows:
      (1)   Subject to Traffic Rule 13, if a law enforcement officer issues an
offender a ticket, citation or summons for a violation of any section of the
Traffic Code that indicates that the offender was distracted while committing
the violation and that the distracting activity was a contributing factor to
the commission of the violation, the offender may enter a written plea of
guilty and waive the offender’s right to contest the ticket, citation or
summons in a trial provided that the offender pays the total amount of the fine
established for the violation and pays the additional fine of one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
   In lieu of payment of the additional fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00),
the offender instead may elect to attend a distracted driving safety course,
the duration and contents of which shall be established by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety. If the offender attends and successfully completes the course,
the offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00), so long as the offender
submits to the court both the offender’s payment in full and such written
evidence within ninety days of the underlying violation that resulted in the
imposition of the additional fine under this section.
      (2)   If the offender appears in person to contest the ticket, citation
or summons in a trial and the offender pleads guilty to or is convicted of the
violation, the court, in addition to all other penalties provided by law, may
impose the applicable penalty for the violation and may impose the additional
fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
If the court imposes upon the offender the applicable penalty for the violation
and an additional fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), the
court shall inform the offender that, in lieu of payment of the additional fine
of not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), the offender instead may elect
to attend the distracted driving safety course described in subsection (b)(1)
of this section. If the offender elects the course option and attends and
successfully completes the course, the offender shall be issued written
evidence that the offender successfully completed the course. The offender
shall be required to pay the total amount of the fine established for the
violation, but shall not be required to pay the additional fine of not more
than one hundred dollars ($100.00), so long as the offender submits to the
court the offender’s payment and such written evidence within ninety days of
the underlying violation that resulted in the imposition of the additional fine
under this section.
   (c)   If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of subsection (b) of this section that indicates that
the offender was distracted while committing the violation and that the
distracting activity was a contributing factor to the commission of the
violation, the officer shall do both of the following:
      (1)   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation, or summons to the
officer’s law enforcement agency;
      (2)   Ensure that such report indicates the offender’s race.
         (ORC 4511.991)
CHAPTER 305
Traffic Control Map; Traffic Regulations
305.01   Traffic control map.
305.02   Incorporation, maintenance and amendments.
305.03   Authority of City Manager to adopt regulations.
305.04   Effective date of regulations.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
See sectional history for similar State law
Power to designate highway as included in a freeway, expressway or thruway -
see Ohio R.C. 4511.011
Uniform system of traffic control devices - see Ohio R.C. 4511.09, 4511.11(D)
Placing and maintaining local traffic control devices - see Ohio R.C. 4511.10,
4511.11
Alteration of prima-facie speed limits - see Ohio R.C. 4511.21, 4511.22(A),
4511.23
Power to erect stop signs at grade crossings - see Ohio R.C. 4511.61
Designation of through streets and erection of stop or yield signs - see Ohio
R.C. 4511.65; TRAF.
313.02
Traffic control devices defined - see TRAF.
301.88
 
 
305.01 TRAFFIC CONTROL MAP.
   There is established a traffic control map which shall reflect by legend and
proper designation the city's currently existing:
   (a)   Traffic control signals.
   (b)   Through streets and state routes.
   (c)   One-way streets and alleys.
   (d)   Stop intersections.
   (e)   Yield right-of-way intersections.
   (f)   Commercial and passenger loading zones.
   (g)   Prohibited and limited parking areas.
   (h)   Angle parking areas.
   (i)   Parking meter areas.
305.02 INCORPORATION, MAINTENANCE AND AMENDMENTS.
   (a)   The traffic control map, as existing on the date of passage of the
Traffic Code of this City, is incorporated as a part of this Traffic Code. The
map shall be prepared and maintained up to date by such person, division or
department as may be designated by the City Manager. (Ord. 4312. Passed 11-6-
95.)
   (b)   Council may amend the traffic control map by ordinance, or the City
Manager may amend the traffic control map by regulation, pursuant to Sections
305.03 and
305.04. No such ordinance or regulation shall be enforceable until after the
effective date of the ordinance or regulation and the official signs, signals,
markings or parking meters, where required, are erected or placed in proper
position. Such person, division or department as may be designated by the City
Manager from time to time, upon receipt of a copy of the ordinance or
regulations, shall record the information and amend the map to conform with the
provisions thereof. (See 305.04 as to effective date of traffic regulations by
the City Manager.)
(Ord. 4312. Passed 11-6-95.)
305.03 AUTHORITY OF CITY MANAGER TO ADOPT REGULATIONS.
   The City Manager is authorized to adopt regulations as follows:
   (a)   To designate streets or portions of streets upon which there shall be
no parking of vehicles at any time, for a limited time or during certain hours,
including but not limited to, establishment on City-owned land of special
parking locations and/or privileges for handicapped persons (under Chapter
351)  and establishment of fire lanes on private property and city owned land
(under Chapter
351) ; (see limitations in (d) below)
   (b)   To close temporarily any street or portion of any street or to
restrict the use thereof when required by public safety;
   (c)   To prohibit and/or permit left-hand turns or right-hand turns by
vehicles at designated intersections;
   (d)   To regulate the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles, trackless
trolleys and streetcars, but under ORC 4511.69 the following matters may be
controlled or adopted only by ordinances passed by Council and not by traffic
regulations of the City Manager:
      (1)   Authorization of angle parking, or
      (2)   Authorization of parallel parking on the left-hand side of any one-
way street.
         (Ord. 3141. Passed 3-19-80.)
   (e)   To designate entrances to intersections as points at which traffic
shall stop before entering the intersection upon the erection of stop signs at
such points;
   (f)   To designate intersections at which automatic traffic control signals
displaying alternating red, amber and green lights or displaying flashing red
or amber lights shall be installed and maintained; and
   (g)   In populous, high traffic and business areas where there are traffic
control problems which would be intensified by additional construction or
change in use of the abutting property if a permit is requested for such
additional construction or change in use, to require the construction and/or
installation of traffic control devices such as but not limited to acceleration
or de-acceleration lanes, traffic lights, lines, lane dividers, islands and/or
any other devices helpful in traffic control.
      (1)   Such devices shall be designed so as to reduce traffic control
problems and may extend onto the privately owned premises of the adjacent
developed areas if the street or other public way is not wide enough to permit
the installation of such devices.
      (2)   All expenses for the installation of such devices, including costs
of advance information signs relating to such devices and any necessary
easements, shall be borne by the adjacent property owners who wish to engage in
such additional construction or change in the use of the abutting property.
      (3)   The Building Commissioner shall not issue any permits for
additional construction or change in use of such property when in the opinion
of the City Manager issuance of such permit(s) would intensify traffic control
problems.
   (h)   To regulate vehicles on land and lots owned by the city and to impound
vehicles in violation as provided in Section
303.08.
(Ord. 4018. Passed 11-12-90.)
305.04 EFFECTIVE DATE OF REGULATIONS.
   Regulations promulgated by the City Manager pursuant to the authority of
Section
305.03 shall become effective and be in force as though fully written in the
Traffic Code from and after the time all the following things, insofar as
applicable, have been done and performed:
   (a)   The regulation, in typewritten form, is to be filed with the Clerk of
Council and the Clerk shall maintain the same in a book or volume for such
purpose only in his or her office so it is available to the public for
inspection during hours the administrative offices of the city are open. This
requirement shall not apply to temporary street closures or traffic
restrictions implemented for public safety purposes, provided that temporary
traffic control devices are visibly displayed and substantially in compliance
with design guidelines set forth in the Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices.
   (b)   For regulations pertaining to parking, curbs where parking is
prohibited at all times shall be painted yellow, and/or signs shall be erected
along the curb to advise of limited or prohibited parking; and stripes shall be
painted on the pavement to indicate diagonal parking.
   (c)   For regulations prohibiting left-hand or right-hand turns at
intersections, a visible sign shall be erected at the intersection.
   (d)   For regulations establishing stop intersections, a sign of the size
and design approved by the Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) shall be
erected on the stop street to advise travelers of the requirement to stop.
   (e)   For regulations establishing automatic traffic control signals or
flashing signals, such signal device shall be erected and maintained at the
intersection.
   (f)   Any other traffic control device required by the Ohio Manual of
Uniform Traffic Control Devices for any such regulations must be erected or
otherwise placed in operation. (Ord. 4845. Passed 10-2-17.)
EDITOR'S NOTE:
The provisions of this chapter describe administrative authority as to traffic
matters. There are no rules of conduct, no requirements to be obeyed in this
chapter. Accordingly, Section
303.99 which provides penalties for, and classification of, violations for all
sections of the Traffic Code (except those for which some specific penalty and/
or classification is provided in the particular section or chapter) shall not
apply to this Chapter 305 or any section herein.
TITLE THREE - Streets and Traffic Control Devices
Chap.
311. Street Obstructions and Special Situations.
Chap.
313. Traffic Control Devices.
CHAPTER 311
Street Obstructions and Special Situations
311.01   Placing injurious material or obstruction in street.
311.02   Parades and blocking streets; Parade and Assembly Appeals Board.
311.03   Zones of quiet.
311.04   Play streets.
311.05   Toy vehicles upon roadway.
311.06   Traffic in areas adjoining gasoline filling stations.
311.07   Special police required for commercial establishments creating traffic
problems.
311.08   Authority of real estate owner to control traffic on that land.
311.09   Littering.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
See sectional history for similar State law
Power to regulate processions or assemblages - see Ohio R.C. 4511.07(C)
Dropping, sifting and leaking loads - see TRAF.
339.08
Subpoena power of Parade and Assembly Appeals Board - see ADM.
160.02
 
 
311.01 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL OR OBSTRUCTION IN STREET.
   (a)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a street,
highway or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or other articles which
may damage or injure any person, vehicle or animal traveling along or upon such
street, except such substances that may be placed upon the roadway by proper
authority for the repair or construction thereof.
   (b)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
street any noxious, destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove
the same.
   (c)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
street shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
street from such vehicle.
   (d)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a street, alley or
highway without proper authority. (Ord. 4583. Passed 4-18-05.)
   (e)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or vehicle,
shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road, street or
alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or other articles which may damage
or injure any person, vehicle or animal traveling along or upon such highway,
except such substances that may be placed upon the roadway by proper authority
for the repair or construction thereof.
   (f)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever
violates any provision of subsections (a) to (d) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offense, whoever violates any provision of subsections (a) to (d) of
this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any provision of
subsections (a) to (d) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates subsection (e) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. (ORC 4511.74)
311.02 PARADES AND BLOCKING STREETS; PARADE AND ASSEMBLY APPEALS BOARD.
   (a)   No person shall conduct or participate in any parade upon that portion
of any street or highway which is open to the use of the public as a
thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular traffic, nor block off any such portion
of a street or highway area, without first obtaining a permit from the Director
of the Department of Public Safety of this City.
   (b)   A parade is defined to be a formal or informal march or procession of
two or more individuals, vehicles or animals moving from one point to another
in an organized manner so as to interfere with the free and uninterrupted use
by the public of such street or highway.
   (c)   Applications for such permits shall be made on forms prescribed by the
City and shall contain such information as is reasonably necessary to a fair
determination of whether a permit should be issued, including but not limited
to the exact portions of any street or highway to be blocked off, the exact
route of the parade, the date and hours of the day for which the permit is
requested, the number of persons anticipated to be involved and the number,
type and size of vehicles and animals anticipated to be involved. Applications
shall be filed with the Director of the Department of Public Safety not less
than 4 days before the time intended for such parade or blocking off. (Ord.
3069. Passed 11-20-78.)
   (d)   The permit shall be issued unless the Director finds that the
resultant conditions would unreasonably hinder the use by the public of such
portion of the street or highway or would require the diversion of sufficient
police officers or firemen so as to deprive the City of normal police and fire
protection, in which case the application shall be rejected or conditions
imposed as set forth below.
   (e)   The permit or any order accompanying it may prescribe reasonable
conditions as to the hours, the places of assembly and of dispersal, the route
and manner of march or travel, the number, type and size of animals and
vehicles and the streets, highways or portions thereof which may be used or
occupied. Further, the Director may require additional conditions for the
issuance of the permit, including but not limited to requirements and
restrictions that the person conducting the parade or blocking off the street
assume, in writing, the obligation of paying the costs to the City of
supervising and directing such parade or blocking off, including the cost of
providing personnel from the Departments of Safety and Service or any other
City personnel, including the costs of the services of outside contractors, and
including that such person provide evidence of ability to pay such costs.
   (f)   The Director of the Department of Public Safety shall issue the permit
(with or without conditions) or a written rejection of the application within
four days after the application was filed. It shall be the duty of the
applicant to pick up the permit or rejection at the City offices.
   (g)   If the decision of the Director was to reject the application, or to
approve it but subject to conditions imposed by the Director, the City shall
take the initiative in providing for an administrative hearing and review
within 5 days after the rejection or conditional approval was issued. There is
hereby created a Parade and Assembly Appeals Board to conduct such hearings and
to review and make determinations as authorized herein. The members of the
Local Board of Tax Review, as established under Chapter 148-1, shall, for the
purposes set forth herein, constitute such Parade and Assembly Appeals Board.
The character of the Board and terms of office of its members shall be as
prescribed in Codified Ordinance 148-1.18(A). (See ADMIN 160.02 for subpoena
power)
      (1)   Notice. Notice of the hearing before such Board shall be given to
the applicant for the permit by telegram, night-letter or other form of
delivery of a written notice of the date, place and hour of the hearing.
      (2)   Decision. The Board shall reverse the decision of the Director and
shall grant the permit applied for, without conditions, unless it finds that
the rejection of the application, or the conditions imposed upon approval of
the application, were based upon a valid and correct determination by the
Director, supported by clear and convincing evidence presented to the Board,
that resulting conditions would have unreasonably hindered use by the public of
such street or highway or would have required the diversion of police or fire
personnel so as to deprive the City of its normal protection. The decision of
the Board shall be made and issued at a public meeting of that body held not
later than three days after the administrative review hearing referred to
above.
      (3)   Judicial appeal. Decisions of this board shall constitute final
administrative decisions so as to be subject to judicial review under Chapter
2506 of the Ohio Revised Code upon appeal to the court system by the applicant
for such a permit. The applicant may combine such an appeal with a request for
immediate restraining order and/or injunctive relief as authorized by the Ohio
Rules of Civil Procedure. The applicant shall be informed of this right of
judicial review.
         (Ord. 4819. Passed 2-22-16.)
   (h)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
311.03 ZONES OF QUIET.
   (a)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a zone of quiet, no
person operating a vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
   (b)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
311.04 PLAY STREETS.
   (a)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part
thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street
or portion thereof except drivers having business or residences within that
play area; and then such drivers shall exercise the greatest care in driving
within that play area.
   (b)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
311.05 TOY VEHICLES UPON ROADWAY.
   (a)   No person riding upon any coaster, roller skates, skate board, sled,
toy vehicle, wagon or other similar device shall go upon any roadway except
while crossing a street on a crosswalk; and when so crossing that person shall
be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties
applicable to pedestrians. This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any street while it is set aside as a play street under Section
311.04 ;
      (2)    The use of a scooter, skateboard, or pair of inline roller skates,
provided the same is used or operated in accordance with Section
371.13 . For purposes of this provision, the following definitions shall apply:
         A.   "Scooter" shall mean a vehicle that is not a "Shared Mobility
Device" as defined in Section
375.10 , and which consists of a deck or platform with one or more wheels
attached, typically operated or ridden in a standing or crouching position,
with a hand-operated steering bar or wheel, and propelled by gravity, human
foot power, or an electric motor that is capable of propelling the vehicle not
more than twenty miles per hour.
         B.   "Skateboard" shall mean a vehicle that consists of a deck or
platform with one or more wheels attached, typically operated or ridden in a
standing or crouching position, without hand-operated steering controls, and
propelled solely by gravity or human foot power.
         C.   "Inline roller skates" shall mean a type of wearable skates
consisting of a pair of boots or over-shoes, each having two to five hard
rubber or urethane wheels attached in a single-file configuration.
   (b)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Ord. 4928. Passed 1-4-21.)
311.06 TRAFFIC IN AREAS ADJOINING GASOLINE FILLING STATIONS.
   In order to prevent traffic congestion caused by a back-up of vehicles
attempting to enter onto the premises of a gasoline filling station, any
entrance drive to such a business establishment shall be located not less than
200 feet from the nearest intersection (formed by the right-of-way liens of the
nearest intersecting streets). In order to provide a safe and convenient means
of exit for vehicles leaving such premises, the exit drives shall be located no
less than 200 feet from the nearest intersection as defined above. These
requirements shall not apply to existing exit drives of existing establishments
of this nature.
311.07 SPECIAL POLICE REQUIRED FOR COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS CREATING TRAFFIC
PROBLEMS.
   Commercial establishments which by the nature of their merchandising
techniques or location create particular traffic control hazards on public
streets or create crowd control problems shall be required to hire special
private policemen or private detectives when, in the opinion of the Chief of
Police, such private policemen or detectives would help to control such
problems.
311.08 AUTHORITY OF REAL ESTATE OWNER TO CONTROL TRAFFIC ON THAT LAND.
   The provisions of this Traffic Code do not prevent the owner of real
property (used by the public for purposes of vehicular traffic by permission of
the owner and not as a matter of right) from prohibiting that use or from
requiring conditions or types of performance in addition to those specified in
the Traffic Code, or otherwise regulating such vehicular use in the manner
which seems best to that owner.
311.09 LITTERING.
   (a)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road or highway, except in a litter receptacle in a
manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (b)   No operator of a motor vehicle while in operation on any street, road
or highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded or deposited
from the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that
prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (c)   As used in this section, "litter" means garbage, trash, waste,
rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts,
furniture, glass, and anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
   (d)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
CHAPTER 313
Traffic Control Devices
313.01   Obedience to traffic control devices.
313.02   Through highways; stop and yield right-of-way signs.
313.021   Stop and yield signs.
313.03   Traffic signal indications.
313.04   Lane-use control signal indications.
313.05   Special pedestrian control signals.   
313.06   Flashing traffic signals. (Repealed)
313.07   Unauthorized signs and signals, hiding from view, advertising.
313.08   Alteration, injury, removal of traffic control devices.
313.09   Driver's duties upon approaching ambiguous or non-working traffic
signal.
313.10   Unlawful purchase, possession or sale.
313.11   Portable signal preemption devices prohibited.
313.12   Bicycle symbol signal indications.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
See sectional histories for similar State law
Designation of through streets or stop intersections - see Ohio R.C. 4511.07
(F), 4511.65
Uniform system of traffic control devices - see Ohio R.C. 4511.09, 4511.11(D)
Placing and maintaining local traffic control devices - see Ohio R.C. 4511.10,
4511.11
Traffic control devices defined - TRAF.
301.88
 
 
313.01 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (a)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of
any traffic control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this
Traffic Code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a police officer.
   No provisions of this Traffic Code for which signs are required shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged
violation an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section of
this Traffic Code does not state that signs are required, that section shall be
effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.12)
313.02 THROUGH HIGHWAYS; STOP AND YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY SIGNS.
   (a)   All State routes are hereby designated as through highways, provided
that stop signs, yield signs or highway traffic signals shall be erected at all
intersections with such through highways by the Department of Transportation as
to highways under its jurisdiction and by local authorities as to highways
under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section. Where
two or more State routes that are through highways intersect and no highway
traffic signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Ohio Department of Transportation or by
local authorities having jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this
section.
   Whenever the Ohio Director of Transportation determines on the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop
traffic on a through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent such installations. When circumstances
warrant, the Director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through
highways under the Director’s jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs
or removes a stop sign under this paragraph, the Director shall give notice, in
writing, of that proposed action to the Municipality at least thirty days
before installing or removing the stop sign.
   (b)   Other streets or highways, or portions thereof, are hereby designated
through highways, if they are within the Municipality, if they have a
continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of such street or
highway or portion thereof, and if they have "stop" or "yield" signs or highway
traffic signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or
highways. For purposes of this section, the limits of such street or highway,
or portion thereof, shall be a municipal corporation line, the physical
terminus of the street or highway or any point on the streets or highway at
which vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or
yield to traffic on the intersecting street, provided that in residence
districts the Municipality may by ordinance designate such street or highway,
or portion thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected
residence district shall be indicated by official traffic control devices.
Where two or more streets or highways designated under this subsection (b)
intersect and no highway traffic signal is in operation, stop signs or yield
signs shall be erected at one or more entrances thereto by the Ohio Department
of Transportation or by Council or the authorized local authority, except as
otherwise provided in this section.
   (c)   Stop signs need not be erected at intersections so constructed as to
permit traffic to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop.
Signs shall be erected at such intersections indicating that the operator of a
vehicle shall yield the right of way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on
the through highway.
   (d)   Council or the authorized local authority may designate additional
through highways and shall erect stop signs, yield signs or highway traffic
signals at all streets and highways intersecting such through highways, or may
designate any intersection as a stop or yield intersection and shall erect like
signs at one or more entrances to such intersection.
(ORC 4511.65)
313.021 STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (a)   Every stop sign shall bear the word "stop" in letters not less than
six inches in height. Every stop sign shall be located as near as practicable
at the property line of the street or highway at the entrance to which the stop
must be made, or at the nearest line of the crosswalk thereat, or, if none, at
the nearest line of the roadway.
(Ord. 2965. Passed 6-21-76.)
   (b)   See
313.02  as to placement of stop or yield signs with relationship to through
streets and highways.
   (c)   As permitted by Ohio R.C. 4511.65(D) and 4511.07(F), the city may (by
ordinance or by traffic regulation under Section
305.03 ) designate any intersection as a stop or yield intersection; and the
City shall thereafter erect stop or yield signs at one or more entrances to
that intersection.
313.03 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL TERMS AND LIGHTS.
   Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles, and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings:
   (a)   Steady Green Signal Indication:
      (1)   A.   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication is
permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left, or make a u-turn
movement except as such movement is modified by a lane- use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal
indication, or other traffic control device. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         B.   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, is permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         A.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk.
         B.   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   A.   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in Section
313.05 , pedestrians facing a circular green signal indication are permitted to
proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk.
The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the
intersection or so close as to create an immediate hazard at the time that the
green signal indication is first displayed.
         B.   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
   (b)   Steady Yellow Signal Indication:
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
is thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing arrow
movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in Section
313.05  or other traffic control device, shall not start to cross the roadway.
   (c)   Steady Red Signal Indication:
      (1)   A.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, before then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in subsections (c)(1), (2) and (3)
of this section.
         B.   Except when a traffic control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted, after
stopping, to enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-
way street into a one-way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   A.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         B.   When a traffic control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the intersection to turn
right or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street. The right to
proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the arrow,
and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop
at a stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in Section 
313.05  or other traffic control device, pedestrians facing a steady circular
red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not enter the roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on State highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (d)   Flashing Green Signal Indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (e)   Flashing Yellow Signal Indication:
      (1)   A.   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane-use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications, or other traffic control devices. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall
yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         B.   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn to
the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   A.   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination with
another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the intersection
only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or other such movement as is
permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same time. Such
vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn,
shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         B.   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn to
the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (f)   Flashing Red Signal Indication:
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter, or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (g)   General Application: In the event an official highway traffic signal
is erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions
of this section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by
their nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign
or marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the
absence of any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (h)   Exception. This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings.
Conduct of drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be
governed by Ohio R.C. 4511.61 and 4511.62. (ORC 4511.13)
313.04 LANE-USE CONTROL SIGNAL INDICATIONS.
   (a)   The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
      (1)    A steady downward green arrow means that the lane over which the
arrow signal indication is located is open to vehicle travel in that direction.
      (2)   A steady yellow “X” means that the lane over which the signal
indication is located is about to be closed to vehicle traffic in that
direction and will be followed by a steady red “X” signal indication, either
within the same signal face or in a downstream signal face.
      (3)   A steady white two-way left-turn arrow means that the lane over
which the signal indication is located is open to traffic making a left turn
from either direction of travel, but not for through travel.
      (4)   A steady white one-way left-turn arrow means that the lane over
which the signal indication is located is open to traffic making a left turn in
that direction, without opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through
travel.
      (5)   A steady red “X” means that the lane over which the signal
indication is located is closed to vehicle traffic in the direction viewed by
the road user.
         (ORC 4511.131)
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.99)
313.05 SPECIAL PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   (a)   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words
“walk” or “don’t walk”, or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm
are in place, such signals shall indicate the following instructions:
      (1)   A steady walking person signal indication, which symbolizes “walk”,
means that a pedestrian facing the signal indication is permitted to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, possibly in
conflict with turning vehicles. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the walking person
signal indication is first shown.
      (2)   A flashing upraised hand signal indication, which symbolizes “don’t
walk”, means that a pedestrian shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal indication, but that any pedestrian who has already
started to cross on a steady walking person signal indication shall proceed to
the far side of the traveled way of the street or highway, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic control device to proceed only to the median of a divided
highway or only to some other island or pedestrian refuge area.
      (3)   A steady upraised hand signal indication means that a pedestrian
shall not enter the roadway in the direction of the signal indication.
      (4)   Nothing int his section shall be construed to invalidate the
continued use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word “wait” if those
signals were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
      (5)   A flashing walking person signal indication has no meaning and
shall not be used. (ORC 4511.14)
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.99)
313.06 FLASHING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (Former Ohio R.C. 4511.15 from which Section 313.06 was derived was repealed
by House Bill 349, effective April 20, 2012.)
313.07 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS, HIDING FROM VIEW, ADVERTISING.
   (a)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be,
is an imitation of or resembles a traffic control device or railroad sign or
signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or hides from view
or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit upon any street any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit either the
erection upon private property adjacent to streets of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic
control devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4511.211 and
4511.432.
   Every such prohibited sign, signal, marking or device is a public nuisance,
and the Police Chief is authorized to remove it or cause it to be removed.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.16)
313.08 ALTERATION, INJURY, REMOVAL OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (a)   No person without lawful authority, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic control device, any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield or insignia on the device, sign or signal, or any part of
the device, sign or signal;
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition and is marked by flags, markers, signs or other devices
intended to protect it;
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy or otherwise improperly tamper with
a manhole cover.
   (b)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever
violates subsection (a)(1) or (3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree. If a violation of subsection (a)(1) or (3) of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation of subsection (a)(1) or (3) of
this section causes serious physical harm to property that is owned, leased, or
controlled by a state or local authority, the offender is guilty of a felony
and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates
subsection (a)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates subsection (a)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates subsection (a)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the third degree.
         (ORC 4511.17)
313.09 DRIVER'S DUTIES UPON APPROACHING AMBIGUOUS OR NON-WORKING TRAFFIC
SIGNAL.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle who approaches an intersection where traffic
is controlled by highway traffic signals shall do all of the following if the
signal facing the driver exhibits no colored lights or colored lighted arrows,
exhibits a combination of such lights or arrows that fails to clearly indicate
the assignment of right of way, or, if the vehicle is a bicycle or an electric
bicycle, the signals are otherwise malfunctioning due to the failure of a
vehicle detector to detect the presence of the bicycle or electric bicycle.
      (1)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, stop
before entering the intersection;
      (2)   Yield the right of way to all vehicles in the intersection or
approaching on an intersecting road, if the vehicles will constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways.
      (3)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.132)
313.10 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE, POSSESSION OR SALE.
   (a)   As used in this section, "traffic control device" means any sign,
highway traffic signal or other device conforming to and placed or erected in
accordance with the manual adopted under Ohio R.C. 4511.09 by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, including signs denoting the names of streets and
highways, but does not mean any pavement marking.
   (b)   No individual shall buy or otherwise possess or sell, a traffic
control device, except when one of the following applies:
      (1)   In the course of the individual’s employment by the State or a
local authority for the express or implied purpose of manufacturing, providing,
erecting, moving or removing such a traffic control device;
      (2)   In the course of the individual’s employment by any manufacturer of
traffic control devices other than a State or local authority;
      (3)   For the purpose of demonstrating the design and function of a
traffic control device to State or local officials;
      (4)   When the traffic control device has been purchased from the State
or a local authority at a sale of property that is no longer needed or is unfit
for use;
      (5)   The traffic control device has been properly purchased from a
manufacturer for use on private property and the person possessing the device
has a sales receipt for the device or other acknowledgment of sale issued by
the manufacturer.
   (c)   This section does not preclude, and shall not be construed as
precluding, prosecution for theft in violation of Ohio R.C. 2913.02 or a
municipal ordinance relating to theft, or for receiving stolen property in
violation of Ohio R.C. 2913.51 or a municipal ordinance relating to receiving
stolen property.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(ORC 4511.18)
313.11 PORTABLE SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle used in snow and ice
removal, including a snow plow, when it is owned by a political subdivision and
operated by an employee of that political subdivision.
      (2)   PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 109.71(A)(1),
(A)(12), (A)(14), and (A)(19).
      (3)   PORTABLESIGNALPREEMPTION DEVICE. A device that, if activated by a
person, is capable of changing a highway traffic signal to green out of
sequence.
      (4)   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4511.01
(E)(1), (E)(3), and (E)(4).
   
   (b)   Except as provided in subsections (c) and (d) of this section:
      (1)    No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)    No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of the highway traffic signal.
   (c)   Subsection (b)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the
following persons:
      (1)    A peace officer;
      (2)    A state highway patrol trooper;
      (3)    A person while occupying a public safety vehicle;
      (4)    The authorized employee operator of a highway maintenance vehicle.
   (d)   Subsection (b)(2) of this section does not apply under either of the
following circumstances:
      (1)    When a person listed in subsections (c)(1) to (c)(3) of this
section is responding to an emergency call;
      (2)    When a person listed in subsection (c)(4) of this section is
responding to an emergency level two or level three weather event.
   
   (e)   Whoever violates subsection (b)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates subsection (b)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. (ORC 4511.031)
313.12 BICYCLE SYMBOL SIGNAL INDICATIONS.
   Bicycle symbol signal indications have the following meanings:
   (a)   A steady green bicycle signal indication means that bicyclists are
permitted to enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by the
lane-use arrow displayed on the bicycle signal sign that is located immediately
adjacent to the bicycle signal face. Bicyclists proceeding into the
intersection during the display of the indication shall yield the right-of-way
to both of the following:
      (1)    Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
      (2)    Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
   (b)   A steady yellow bicycle signal indication means that bicyclists are
warned that the related green movement is being terminated and that a steady
red bicycle signal indication will be displayed immediately thereafter when
bicyclists shall not enter the intersection. The provisions governing bicyclist
operations under the movement being terminated continue to apply while the
steady yellow bicycle signal indication is displayed.
   (c)   (1)    A steady red bicycle signal indication means that bicyclists
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the lane-use
arrow displayed on the bicycle signal sign that is located immediately adjacent
to the bicycle signal face. Unless the bicyclist is entering the intersection
to make another movement permitted by another bicycle symbol signal indication,
the bicyclist shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if there is no stop
line, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, shall stop before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a green bicycle signal indication
to proceed is displayed.
      (2)    Except when a traffic control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red, bicyclists facing a steady red bicycle signal indication are
permitted to enter the intersection to turn right if there are no approach
lanes for motor vehicle traffic to their right. The right to proceed with the
turn is subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
   (d)   A flashing green bicycle signal indication and a flashing yellow
bicycle signal indication have no meaning and shall not be used.
   (e)   A flashing red bicycle signal indication means that bicyclists shall
stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if there is no stop line, shall stop
before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection; or if there
is no crosswalk, shall stop at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where
the bicyclists have a view of approaching traffic on that roadway before
entering the intersection. The right to make the movement indicated by the
lane-use arrow displayed on the bicycle signal sign that is located immediately
adjacent to the bicycle signal face is subject to the provisions that are
applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (ORC 4511.15)
TITLE FIVE - Vehicles
Chap.
331. Operation Generally.
Chap.
333. OVI; Willful Misconduct; Speed.
Chap.
335. Licensing; Accidents.
Chap.
337. Safety and Equipment.
Chap.
339. Commercial and Heavy Vehicles.
Chap.
341. Commercial Drivers.
Chap.
343. Interfering With Buses.
CHAPTER 331
Operation Generally
331.01   Driving upon right side of roadway; exceptions.
331.02   Passing to right when proceeding in opposite directions.
331.03   Overtaking, passing to left; driver’s duties.
331.04   Overtaking and passing upon right.
331.05   Overtaking, passing to left of center.
331.06   Additional restrictions on riving upon left side of roadway.
331.07   Hazardous or no passing zones.
331.08   Driving in marked lanes or continuous lines of traffic.
331.09   Following too closely.
331.10   Turning at intersections.
331.11   Turning into private driveway, alley or building.
331.12   “U” turns restricted.
331.13   Starting and backing vehicles.
331.14   Signals before changing course, turning or stopping.
331.15   Hand and arm signals.
331.16   Right of way at intersections.
331.17   Right of way when turning left.
331.18   Operation of vehicle at yield signs.
331.19   Operation of vehicle at stop signs.
331.20   Emergency or public safety vehicles at stop signals or signs.
331.21   Right of way of public safety or coroner’s vehicle.
331.211   Report of vehicle failing to yield right of way to public safety
vehicle.
331.22   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway: duty to yield.
331.23   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway; stopping at
sidewalk.
331.24   Right of way of funeral procession.
331.25   Driver’s view and control to be unobstructed by load or persons.
331.26   Driving upon street posted as closed for repair.
331.27   Following and parking near emergency or safety vehicles.
331.28   Driving over fire hose.
331.29   Driving through safety zone.
331.30   One-way streets and rotary traffic islands.
331.31   Driving upon divided roadways.
331.32   Entering and exiting controlled-access highway.
331.33   Obstructing intersection, crosswalk or grade crossing.
331.34   Failure to control; weaving; full time and attention.
331.35   Occupying travel trailer, fifth wheel vehicle, or manufactured or
mobile home
   while in motion.
331.36   Squealing tires, “peeling”, cracking exhaust noises.
331.37   Driving upon sidewalks, street lawns or curbs.
331.38   Stopping for school bus; discharging children.
331.381   School bus operator to report violations.
331.39   Driving on a Class I Bikeway.
331.40   Shortcutting; avoiding traffic control devices.
331.41   Wearing earplugs or earphones prohibited.
331.42   Vehicular operation on street closed due to rise in water level.
331.43   Restrictions on the operation of school buses.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
See sectional histories for similar State law
Obedience to traffic control devices - see TRAF.
313.01
Operation of bicycles and motorcycles - see TRAF.
373.01 et seq.
School bus operation - see OAC Ch. 4501-3
 
 
331.01 DRIVING UPON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing such movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic;
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic control
device.
   (b)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
such passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         A.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         B.   When preparing for a left turn;
         C.   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in subsection (b)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (c)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under subsection (a) (2) hereof.
   This subsection shall not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the
center line in making a left turn into or from an alley, private road or
driveway.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.25)
331.02 PASSING TO RIGHT WHEN PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (a)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly one-half as is
reasonably possible.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.26)
331.03 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT; DRIVER'S DUTIES.
   (a)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in subsection (a)(3) hereof,
signal to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof at a safe
distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway until
safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. When a motor vehicle overtakes and
passes a bicycle or electric bicycle, three feet or greater is considered a
safe passing distance.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter's audible signal, and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator’s vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided street or highway as defined in
Section
331.31 , a limited access highway as defined in Ohio R.C. 5511.02 or a highway
with four or more traffic lanes, is not required to signal audibly to the
vehicle being overtaken and passed.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.27)
331.04 OVERTAKING AND PASSING UPON RIGHT.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting such movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.28)
331.05 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT OF CENTER.
   (a)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction, unless such
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be completely made,
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching from the
opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In every event the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for
traffic approaching from the opposite direction before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.29)
331.06 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (a)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator's view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct or tunnel;
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (b)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side or
under the conditions described in Section
331.01(a)(2).
 
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.30)
331.07 HAZARDOUS OR NO PASSING ZONES.
   (a)   Hazardous zones, commonly called "no passing zones," shall consist of
an auxiliary yellow line marked on the roadway pavement and placed parallel to
the normal center line or marked lane line. When the auxiliary yellow line
appears on the left side in the driver's lane of travel and to the right of the
normal center line or marked lane line, no driver shall drive across the
auxiliary yellow line to overtake and pass another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction. When auxiliary yellow lines appear on both sides of the normal
center line or marked lane line, drivers proceeding in either direction shall
not drive across such auxiliary yellow lines to overtake and pass another
vehicle proceeding in the same direction. No driver shall, at any other time,
drive across the yellow auxiliary line when it appears in the driver's lane of
travel, except to make a lawfully permitted left-hand turn under the rules
governing such movement. No passing signs may also be erected facing traffic to
indicate the beginning and end of each no passing zone.
   When appropriate signs or markings indicating hazardous or no passing zones
are in place and clearly visible, every operator of a vehicle shall obey the
directions of the signs or markings, notwithstanding the distance set out in
Section
331.06.
   
   (b)   Subsection (a) of this section does not apply when all of the
following apply:
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location.
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit.
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or center line of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
Section
331.05 , considering the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.31)
331.08 DRIVING IN MARKED LANES OR CONTINUOUS LINES OF TRAFFIC.
   (a)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic or wherever traffic is lawfully moving in two or more
substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the following rules
apply:
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from such lane
or line until the driver has first ascertained that such movement can be made
with safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane
except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is clearly
visible and such center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or
when preparing for a left turn, or where such center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding and is posted with signs to give notice of such allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs.
      (4)   Official traffic control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the
directions of every such device.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.33)
331.09 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (a)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
   The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle, when
traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between such vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
such space without danger. This paragraph does not prevent overtaking and
passing nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business or
residence district in a caravan or motorcade, shall maintain a sufficient space
between such vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy such space
without danger. This paragraph shall not apply to funeral processions.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.34)
331.10 TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of such center line where it
enters the intersection and after entering the intersection the left turn shall
be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line of the
roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the left turn shall be made in that
portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle, and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so as
to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane of
the roadway being entered lawfully available to the traffic moving in that
lane.
      (4)   Markers, buttons or signs may be placed within or adjacent to
intersections and thereby require and direct that a different course from that
specified in this section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection,
and when such markers, buttons or signs are so placed, no operator of a vehicle
shall turn such vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and required
by such markers, buttons or signs.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.36)
331.11 TURNING INTO PRIVATE DRIVEWAY, ALLEY OR BUILDING.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn into a private road or
driveway, alley or building from a public street or highway shall be governed
by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   Upon a roadway where traffic is proceeding in opposite directions,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made from that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the center line thereof.
      (3)   Upon a roadway where traffic is restricted to one direction,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable
to the left-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   It shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle entering a private road or
driveway, alley or building to yield the right of way to pedestrians lawfully
using the sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, private
road, driveway or building.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
331.12 "U" TURNS RESTRICTED.
   (a)   Except as provided in Section
313.03 and subsection (b) hereof, no vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed
in the opposite direction upon any curve, or upon the approach to or near the
crest of a grade, if the vehicle cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver
of any other vehicle approaching from either direction.
   (b)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This subsection applies only when the emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle or bell. This subsection does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(ORC 4511.37)
   (c)   Except as provided in subsection (b) hereof, no vehicle shall be
turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction within an intersection, or
upon any street in a business district, or upon a freeway, expressway or
controlled-access highway, or where authorized signs are erected to prohibit
such movement, or at any other location unless such movement can be made with
reasonable safety to other users of the street and without interfering with the
safe operation of any traffic that may be affected by such movement.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.37)
331.13 STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
   (a)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked
until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning, and while
backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on the
street or highway.
   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except: in a rest area;
in the performance of public works or official duties; as a result of an
emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a motor vehicle.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.38)
331.14 SIGNALS BEFORE CHANGING COURSE, TURNING OR STOPPING.
   (a)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a highway
unless and until such person has exercised due care to ascertain that the
movement can be made with reasonable safety nor without giving an appropriate
signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left shall be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a bicycle
or electric bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time but is not
required to be continuous. A bicycle or electric bicycle operator is not
required to make a signal if the bicycle or electric bicycle is in a designated
turn lane, and a signal shall not be given when the operator’s hands are needed
for the safe operation of the bicycle or electric bicycle.
   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without
first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the driver
of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give a
signal.
   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given either by
means of the hand and arm, or by signal lights that clearly indicate to both
approaching and following traffic intention to turn or move right or left,
except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped with, and
the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the distance from the
center of the top of the steering post to the left outside limit of the body,
cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds twenty-four inches, or when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit of
the body or load thereof exceeds fourteen feet, whether a single vehicle or a
combination of vehicles.
   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on one side
only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or "do pass" signal to
operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.39)
331.15 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (a)   Except as provided in subsection (b) hereof, all signals required by
this Traffic Code, when given by hand and arm shall be given from the left side
of the vehicle in the following manner, and such signals shall indicate as
follows:
      (1)   Left turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn: Hand and arm extended upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed: Hand and arm extended downward.
   (b)   As an alternative to subsection (a)(2) hereof, a person operating a
bicycle or electric bicycle may give a right turn signal by extending the right
hand and arm horizontally and to the right side of the bicycle or electric
bicycle.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.40)
331.16 RIGHT OF WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (a)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right of way to the vehicle on the right.
   (b)   The right of way rule declared in subsection (a) hereof, is modified
at through highways and otherwise as stated in this Traffic Code and Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4511.
(ORC 4511.41)
   (c)   Subject to compliance with any traffic control device, when two
vehicles approach or enter a junction of two or more alleys from different
directions at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the
left shall yield the right of way to the vehicle on the right.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.41)
331.17 RIGHT OF WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   (a)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right
of way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction, whenever the
approaching vehicle is within the intersection or so close to the intersection,
alley, private road or driveway as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.42)
331.18 OPERATION OF VEHICLE AT YIELD SIGNS.
   (a)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a speed
reasonable for the existing conditions and, if required for safety to stop,
shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, if any, but if there is no stop line,
shall stop before entering any crosswalk on the near side of the intersection,
or if there is no crosswalk, shall stop at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driveway has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering it. After slowing or stopping, the driver
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching
it on another roadway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during
the time the driver is moving across or within the intersection or junction of
roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a collision with a vehicle in the
intersection or junction of roadways, after driving past a yield sign without
stopping, the collision shall be prima-facie evidence of the driver's failure
to yield the right-of-way. (Ord. 3577. Passed 9-15-86.)
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.43(B))
331.19 OPERATION OF VEHICLE AT STOP SIGNS.
   (a)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, if any, but if there is no such line, shall stop before entering any
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, but if there is no such
crosswalk, shall stop at the stop sign itself. If, however, a clear and safe
view of the intersection and approaching traffic is not available to the driver
at the stop line, crosswalk or stop sign, then the driver shall stop at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver does have a view of
approaching traffic on that roadway before entering it. After having stopped
the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the intersection or
approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time the driver is moving across or within the intersection or
junction of roadways.
(Ord. 3577. Passed 9-15-86.)
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.43(A))
331.20 EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES AT STOP SIGNALS OR SIGNS.
   (a)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any
stop sign shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed
cautiously past such red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the street or highway.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.03)
331.21 RIGHT OF WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY OR CORONER’S VEHICLE.
   (a)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner’s vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive if practical to a position parallel to and as close
as possible to, the right edge or curb of the street clear of any intersection,
and stop and remain in that position until the public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   
   (b)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the street.
   (c)   This section applies to a coroner’s vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4513.171. As used in this section,
“coroner’s vehicle” means a vehicle used by a coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator that is equipped with a flashing, oscillating or
rotating red or blue light and a siren, exhaust whistle, or bell capable of
giving an audible signal.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection or Section
331.211, whoever violates subsection (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense. On a second offense within
one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree, and, on each subsequent offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree. (ORC
4511.45)
331.211 REPORT OF VEHICLE FAILING TO YIELD RIGHT OF WAY TO PUBLIC SAFETY
VEHICLE.
   (a)   When the failure of a motor vehicle operator to yield the right-of-way
to a public safety vehicle as required by Section
331.21(a) impedes the ability of the public safety vehicle to respond to an
emergency, any emergency personnel in the public safety vehicle may report the
license plate number and a general description of the vehicle and the operator
of the vehicle to the law enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the
area where the alleged violation occurred.
   (b)   (1)   Upon receipt of a report under subsection (a) of this section,
the law enforcement agency may conduct an investigation to attempt to determine
or confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation.
      (2)   If the identity of the operator at the time of an alleged violation
of Section
331.21 (a) is established, the law enforcement agency has probable cause to
issue either a written warning or a citation for that violation, and the agency
shall issue a written warning or a citation to the operator.
      (3)   If the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency may issue a
warning to the person who owned the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation. However, in the case of a leased or rented vehicle, the law
enforcement agency shall issue the written warning to the person who leased or
rented the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates Section
331.21(a) based on a report filed under subsection (a) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00).
      (2)   If a person who is issued a citation for a violation of Section
331.21(a) based on a report filed under subsection (a) of this section does not
enter a written plea of guilty and does not waive the person’s right to contest
the citation but instead appears in person in the proper court to answer the
charge, the trier of fact cannot find beyond a reasonable doubt that the person
committed that violation unless the emergency personnel who filed the report
appears in person in the court and testifies.
   (d)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “License plate” includes any temporary motor vehicle license
registration issued under Ohio R.C. 4503.182 or similar law of another
jurisdiction.
      (2)   “Public safety vehicle” does not include an unmarked public safety
vehicle or a vehicle used by a public law enforcement officer or other person
sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the State or a vehicle used
by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the enforcement of orders and rules
of the Public Utilities Commission. (ORC 4511.454)
331.22 DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PLACE OTHER THAN ROADWAY: DUTY TO YIELD.
   (a)   Subject to compliance with any traffic control device, the operator of
a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from an alley or from any place
other than another roadway shall yield the right of way to all traffic
approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.44)
331.23 DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PLACE OTHER THAN ROADWAY: STOPPING AT
SIDEWALK.
   (a)   Subject to compliance with any traffic control device, the driver of a
vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private road or driveway within a
business or residence district shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across the alley,
building entrance, road or driveway, or in the event there is no sidewalk area,
shall stop at the point nearest the street to be entered where the driver has a
view of approaching traffic thereon.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.431)
331.24 RIGHT OF WAY OF FUNERAL PROCESSION.
   (a)   As used in this section "funeral procession" means two or more
vehicles accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in
the daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights lighted and is
displaying a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each
vehicle in such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from
any direction.
   (b)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with Section
331.21 or when directed otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the
operators of all vehicles shall yield the right of way to each vehicle that is
a part of a funeral procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral
procession lawfully enters an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in
the procession may continue to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection
notwithstanding any traffic control devices or right-of-way provisions of this
Traffic Code, provided that the operator of each vehicle exercises due care to
avoid colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (c)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
without having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and without displaying a
purple and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.451)
331.25 DRIVER'S VIEW AND CONTROL TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED BY LOAD OR PERSONS.
   (a)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or to interfere with the driver's
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (b)    No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.70(A),(B),(D))
331.26 DRIVING UPON STREET POSTED AS CLOSED FOR REPAIR.
   (a)   No person shall drive upon, along or across a street or highway, or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by
the authority having jurisdiction to close such street or highway.
   (b)    Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.71)
331.27 FOLLOWING AND PARKING NEAR EMERGENCY OR SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (a)   The driver of any vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle on official business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet,
or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has
stopped in answer to a fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer
or a firefighter.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.72)
331.28 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (a)   No vehicle shall, without the consent of the Fire Chief or fire
official in command, be driven over any unprotected fire hose that is laid down
on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of fire.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.73)
331.29 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   (a)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.60)
331.30 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (a)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way traffic a
vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated. A vehicle passing
around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only to the right of the rotary
traffic island.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.32)
331.31 DRIVING UPON DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (a)   Whenever any street has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across or within any such dividing space, barrier or median section, except
through an opening, crossover or intersection established by public authority.
This section does not prohibit the occupancy of such dividing space, barrier or
median section for the purpose of an emergency stop or in compliance with an
order of a police officer.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.35)
331.32 ENTERING AND EXITING CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   (a)   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access
highway except at such entrances and exits as are established by public
authority.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
331.33 OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTION, CROSSWALK OR GRADE CROSSING.
   (a)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians, or trains, notwithstanding any highway traffic signal
indication to proceed.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.712)
331.34 FAILURE TO CONTROL; WEAVING; FULL TIME AND ATTENTION.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any street, highway, or
property open to the public for vehicular traffic without being in reasonable
control of such vehicle. (See
333.02  for reckless operation.) (Ord. 3548. Passed 4-14-86.)
   (b)   No person shall operate a vehicle in a weaving or zigzag course unless
such irregular course is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with
law.
   (c)   No person shall operate a vehicle without giving his full time and
attention to the operation of such vehicle.
   (d)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
331.35 OCCUPYING TRAVEL TRAILER, FIFTH WHEEL VEHICLE, OR MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE
HOME WHILE IN MOTION.
   (a)   Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, no person shall
occupy any travel trailer, fifth wheel trailer, or manufactured or mobile home
while it is being used as a conveyance upon a street or highway.
   (b)   (1)   Subsection (a) of this section does not apply to a fifth wheel
trailer when both of the following apply:
         A.   Any child riding in the fifth wheel trailer is properly secured
in the manner provided in Ohio R.C. 4511.81.
         B.   The operator of the vehicle towing the fifth wheel trailer has
some means of viable communication with the passengers riding in the trailer.
      (2)   As used in this section, “viable communication” includes a cellular
or satellite telephone, a radio or any other similar electronic wireless
communications device.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   
   (d)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and Ohio R.C. 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense
as a strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense. (ORC 4511.701)
331.36 SQUEALING TIRES, "PEELING," CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES.
   (a)   No person shall unnecessarily race the motor of any vehicle and no
person shall operate any motor vehicle, except in an emergency, in such a
manner that the vehicle is so rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped
position that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or chattering noise
unusual to its normal operation, or whereby the tires of such vehicle squeal or
leave tire marks on the roadway, commonly called "peeling".
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
331.37 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALKS, STREET LAWNS OR CURBS.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a sidewalk, street lawn area
or the curb of a street, boulevard or other public property, except when
entering or leaving a permanent or temporary driveway or when lawfully
authorized. (Ord. 4740. Passed 11-7-11.)
      (2)    This prohibition does not apply to a law enforcement officer, or
other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, using
an electric bicycle with the motor engaged while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
      (3)    Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting local
authorities from regulating the operation of bicycles or electric bicycles,
except that no local authority may require that bicycles or electric bicycles
be operated on sidewalks. (ORC 4511.711(A))
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.711)
331.38 STOPPING FOR SCHOOL BUS; DISCHARGING CHILDREN.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and County boards of developmental disabilities, or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until such
school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed.
   It is no defense to a charge under this subsection (a) hereof that the
school bus involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically
extended stop warning sign as required by subsection (b) hereof.
   (b)   Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual signals
meeting the requirements of Ohio R.C. 4511.771, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce, which shall be
actuated by the driver of the bus whenever but only whenever the bus is stopped
or stopping on the roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school
children, persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental
health and County boards of developmental disabilities, or children attending
programs offered by head start agencies. A school bus driver shall not actuate
the visual signals or the stop warning sign in designated school bus loading
areas where the bus is entirely off the roadway or at school buildings when
children or persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental
health and County boards of developmental disabilities are loading or unloading
at curbside or at buildings when children attending programs offered by head
start agencies are loading or unloading at curbside. The visual signals and
stop warning sign shall be synchronized or otherwise operated as required by
rule of the Ohio Administrative Code.
   (c)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and County boards of developmental disabilities, or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with subsection (a) hereof.
   (d)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and County
boards of developmental disabilities, and children attending programs offered
by head start agencies on their residence side of the highway.
   (e)   No school bus driver shall start the driver’s bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and County boards of developmental disabilities, or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child or person’s residence side of the road.
   (f)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Head start agency” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 3301.32.
      (2)   “School bus”, as used in relation to children who attend a program
offered by a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a
head start agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign
of a type approved by the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce, is
painted the color and displays the markings described in Ohio R.C. 4511.77, and
is equipped with amber and red visual signals meeting the requirements of Ohio
R.C. 4511.77, irrespective of whether or not the bus has fifteen or more
children aboard at any time. “School bus” does not include a van owned and
operated by a head start agency, irrespective of its color, lights, or
markings.
   (g)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (a) of this section may be fined an
amount not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). A person who is issued a
citation for a violation of subsection (a) of this section is not permitted to
enter a written plea of guilty and waive the person’s right to contest the
citation in a trial but instead must appear in person in the proper court to
answer the charge.
      (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court or mayor may impose upon an offender who violates this section a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in division (a)(7) of Ohio R.C.
4510.02. When a license is suspended under this section, the court or mayor
shall cause the offender to deliver the license to the court, and the court or
clerk of the court immediately shall forward the license to the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles, together with notice of the court’s action. (ORC 4511.75)
331.381 SCHOOL BUS OPERATOR TO REPORT VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   Definition. As used in this section, "license plate" includes, but is
not limited to, any temporary motor vehicle license registration issued under
Ohio R.C. 4503.182 or similar law of another jurisdiction.
   (b)   Report by School Bus Driver. When the operator of a school bus
believes that a motorist has violated Section
331.38(a), the operator shall report the license plate number and a general
description of the vehicle and of the operator of the vehicle to the law
enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the area where the alleged
violation occurred. The information contained in the report relating to the
license plate number and to the general description of the vehicle and the
operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation may be supplied by
any person with first-hand knowledge of the information. Information of which
the operator of the school bus has first-hand knowledge also may be
corroborated by any other person.
   (c)   Investigation. Upon receipt of the report of the alleged violation of
Section
331.38(a), the law enforcement agency shall conduct an investigation to attempt
to determine or confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation. If the identity of the operator at the time of the
alleged violation is established, the reporting of the license plate number of
the vehicle shall establish probable cause for the law enforcement agency to
issue a citation for the violation of Section
331.38(a). However, if the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency
shall issue a warning to the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, except in the case of a leased or rented vehicle when the warning
shall be issued to the lessee at the time of the alleged violation. (ORC
4511.751)
331.39 DRIVING ON A CLASS I BIKEWAY.
   (a)   No person shall operate a vehicle on a Class I Bikeway unless such
vehicle is a two- wheeled vehicle propelled exclusively by human power.
(Ord. 2911. Passed 3-17-75.)
   (b)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
331.40 SHORTCUTTING; AVOIDING TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (a)   No person shall operate a vehicle across public or private property
marked with signs "No Through Traffic" or words of similar import for the
purpose of passing from one roadway to another.
   (b)   No person shall operate a vehicle across public or private property
for the purpose of avoiding compliance with a traffic control device.
   (c)   It shall be prima-facie evidence of a violation of this section for
the operator of a vehicle to cross public or private property as provided
herein without using the service of such property, stopping the engine or both.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
331.41 WEARING EARPLUGS OR EARPHONES PROHIBITED.
   (a)   As used in this section:
(1)   “Earphones” means any device that covers all or a portion of both ears
and that does either of the following:
         A.   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         B.   Provides hearing protection.
“Earphones” does not include speakers or other listening devices that are built
into protective headgear.
(2)   “Earplugs” means any device that can be inserted into one or both ears
and that does either of the following:
         A.   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         B.   Provides hearing protection.
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears.
   (c)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire Department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person engaged in the operation of equipment for use in the
maintenance or repair of any highway;
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment;
      (6)   Any person wearing earphones or earplugs for hearing protection
while operating a motorcycle.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.84)
331.42 VEHICULAR OPERATION ON STREET CLOSED DUE TO RISE IN WATER LEVEL.
   (a)   No person shall operate a vehicle on or onto a public street or
highway that is temporarily covered by a rise in water level, including
groundwater or an overflow of water, and that is clearly marked by a sign that
specifies that the road is closed due to the rise in water level and that any
person who uses the closed portion of the road may be fined up to two thousand
dollars ($2,000).
   (b)   A person who is issued a citation for a violation of subsection (a)
hereof is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and waive the
person’s right to contest the citation in court, but instead must appear in
person in the proper court to answer the charge.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (a) hereof is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
      (2)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required under
Section
501.99 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required under any provision of
law, the court imposing the sentence upon an offender who is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a violation of subsection (a) hereof shall order the offender
to reimburse one or more rescuers for the cost any such rescurer incurred in
rescuing the person, excluding any cost of transporting the rescued person to a
hospital or other facility for treatment of injuries, up to a cumulative
maximum of two thousand dollars ($2,000). If more than one rescuer was involved
in the emergency response, the court shall allocate the reimbursement
proportionately, according to the cost each rescuer incurred. A financial
sanction imposed under this section is a judgment in favor of the rescuer and,
subject to a determination of indigency under division (B) of Ohio R.C.
2929.28, a rescuer may collect the financial sanction in the same manner as
provided in Ohio R.C. 2929.28.
   (d)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Emergency medical service organization”, “firefighting agency” and
“private fire company” have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 9.60.
      (2)   “Rescuer” means a state agency, political subdivision, firefighting
service, private fire company, or emergency medical service organization.
         (ORC 4511.714.)
331.43 RESTRICTIONS ON THE OPERATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.   
   (a)   No person shall operate a vehicle used for pupil transportation within
this Municipality in violation of the rules of the Ohio Department of Education
and Workforce or the Ohio Department of Public Safety. No person, being the
owner thereof, or having the supervisory responsibility therefor, shall permit
the operation of a vehicle used for pupil transportation within this
Municipality in violation of the rules of the Ohio Department of Education and
Workforce or the Ohio Department of Public Safety.
   (b)   As used in this section, “vehicle used for pupil transportation” means
any vehicle that is identified as such by the Ohio Department of Education and
Workforce by rule and that is subject to O.A.C. Chapter 3301-83.
   (c)    Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section
or Ohio R.C. 4511.76, or Ohio R.C. 4511.63, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764,
4511.77, or 4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent
to any of those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. (ORC 4511.76(C), (H), (I))
CHAPTER 333
OVI; Willful Misconduct; Speed
333.01   Driving or physical control while under the influence; evidence.
333.02   Operation in willful or wanton disregard of safety.
333.03   Maximum speed limits; assured clear distance ahead.
333.031   Approaching a stationary public safety, emergency, or road service
vehicle.
333.04   Stopping vehicle; slow speed; posted minimum speeds.
333.05   Speed limitations over bridges.
333.06   Speed exceptions for emergency or safety vehicles.
333.07   Street racing, stunt driving and street takeovers prohibited.
333.08   Certain streets to be alleys.
333.09   Certain streets not to be through streets or highways.
333.10   Operation in violation of immobilization order.
333.11   Electronic wireless communication device use prohibited while driving.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
See sectional histories for similar State law
Drug of abuse defined - see Ohio R.C. 3719.011(A)
Alcohol defined - see Ohio R.C. 4301.01(B)(1)
Alteration of prima-facie speed limits - see Ohio R.C. 4511.21, 4511.22(B),
4511.23
Failure to control vehicle - see TRAF.
331.34
Walking on highway while under the influence - see TRAF.
371.09
 
 
333.01 DRIVING OR PHYSICAL CONTROL WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE; EVIDENCE.
   (a)   (1)   Operation Generally. No person shall operate any vehicle within
this Municipality, if, at the time of the operation, any of the following
apply:
         A.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
a combination of them.
         B.   The person has a concentration of eight-hundredths of one per
cent or more but less than seventeen-hundredths of one per cent by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         C.   The person has a concentration of ninety-six-thousandths of one
per cent or more but less than two hundred four-thousandths of one per cent by
weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
         D.   The person has a concentration of eight-hundredths of one gram or
more but less than seventeen-hundredths of one gram by weight of alcohol per
two hundred ten liters of the person’s breath.
         E.   The person has a concentration of eleven-hundredths of one gram
or more but less than two hundred thirty-eight-thousandths of one gram by
weight of alcohol per one hundred milliliters of the person’s urine.
         F.   The person has a concentration of seventeen-hundredths of one per
cent or more by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         G.   The person has a concentration of two hundred four-thousandths of
one per cent or more by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood
serum or plasma.
         H.   The person has a concentration of seventeen-hundredths of one
gram or more by weight of alcohol per two hundred ten liters of the person’s
breath.
         I.   The person has a concentration of two hundred thirty-eight-
thousandths of one gram or more by weight of alcohol per one hundred
milliliters of the person’s urine.
         J.   Except as provided in subsection (m) of this section, the person
has a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or
metabolites of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least five hundred nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least one hundred nanograms of amphetamine
per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least one hundred fifty nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least fifty nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of
the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least one hundred fifty nanograms of cocaine metabolite
per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine
metabolite in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least
fifty nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least two thousand nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least fifty nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma.
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least twenty-five nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s
urine or a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum
or plasma of at least ten nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            7.   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s
urine of at least ten nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least two nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               a.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse or a combination of them, and the person has a concentration of marihuana
metabolite in the person’s urine of at least fifteen nanograms of marihuana
metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of
marihuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at
least five nanograms of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
               b.   The person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in
the person’s urine of at least thirty-five nanograms of marihuana metabolite
per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana
metabolite in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least
fifty nanograms of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least five hundred nanograms of methamphetamine per
milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in
the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least one hundred
nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma.
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least twenty-five nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of
phencyclidine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            11.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount
of salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and
salvinorin A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s
blood serum or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of
operating any vehicle within this Municipality, the rule is in effect, and the
person has a concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A of at least that
amount so specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the person’s whole blood,
or in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within twenty years of the conduct described in
subsection (a)(2)A. of this section, previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a violation of this subsection or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of subsection (a)(1) of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or any
other equivalent offense shall do both of the following:
         A.   Operate any vehicle within this Municipality while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse or a combination of them;
         B.   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in subsection (a)(2)A. of this section, being asked by a law
enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests under Ohio R.C.
4511.191, and being advised by the officer in accordance with Ohio R.C.
4511.192 of the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission to the test
or tests, refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (b)   Operation After Under-Age Consumption. No person under twenty-one
years of age shall operate any vehicle within this Municipality, if, at the
time of the operation, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least two-hundredths of one
per cent but less than eight-hundredths of one per cent by weight per unit
volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least three-hundredths of one
per cent but less than ninety-six-thousandths of one per cent by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least two-hundredths of one
gram but less than eight-hundredths of one gram by weight of alcohol per two
hundred ten liters of the person’s breath.
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least twenty-eight one-
thousandths of one gram but less than eleven-hundredths of one gram by weight
of alcohol per one hundred milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (c)   One Conviction Limitation. In any proceeding arising out of one
incident, a person may be charged with a violation of subsection (a)(1)A. or
(a)(2) and a violation of subsection (b)(1), (2) or (3) of this section, but
the person may not be convicted of more than one violation of these
subsections. (ORC 4511.19)
   (d)   Physical Control.
      (1)   As used in this subsection, “physical control” means being in the
driver’s position of the front seat of a vehicle and having possession of the
vehicle’s ignition key or other ignition device.
      (2)   A.   No person shall be in physical control of a vehicle if, at the
time of the physical control, any of the following apply:
            1.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse,
or a combination of them.
            2.   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or
urine contains at least the concentration of alcohol specified in subsection
(a)(1)B., C., D. or E. hereof.
            3.   Except as provided in subsection (d)(3) of this section, the
person has a concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds the concentration specified in
subsection (a)(1)J. hereof.
         B.   No person under twenty-one years of age shall be in physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
a combination of them or while the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine contains at least the concentration of alcohol specified in
subsection (b)(1) to (4) hereof.
      (3)   Subsection (d)(2)A.3. of this section does not apply to a person
who is in physical control of a vehicle while the person has a concentration of
a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance
in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or
exceeds the amount specified in subsection (a)(1)J. hereof, if both of the
following apply:
         A.   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
         B.   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled
substance in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (e)   Evidence; Tests.  
      (1)   A.   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of subsection (a)(1)A. of this section or for an equivalent offense
that is vehicle-related, the result of any test of any blood, oral fluid, or
urine withdrawn and analyzed at any health care provider, as defined in Ohio
R.C. 2317.02, may be admitted with expert testimony to be considered with any
other relevant and competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of
the defendant.
         B.   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of subsection (a) or
(b) of this section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, the
court may admit evidence on the presence and concentration of alcohol, drugs of
abuse, controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them in the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, urine, oral fluid, or other bodily substance at the time of the alleged
violation as shown by chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn within three
hours of the time of the alleged violation. The three-hour time limit specified
in this division regarding the admission of evidence does not extend or affect
the two-hour time limit specified in Ohio R.C. 4511.192(A) as the maximum
period of time during which a person may consent to a chemical test or tests as
described in that section. The court may admit evidence on the presence and
concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse, or a combination of them as described
in this division when a person submits to a blood, breath, urine, oral fluid,
or other bodily substance test at the request of a law enforcement officer
under Ohio R.C. 4511.191 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or
a blood or urine sample is
obtained pursuant to a search warrant. Only a physician, a registered nurse, an
emergency medical technician-intermediate, an emergency medical technician-
paramedic, or a qualified technician, chemist, or phlebotomist shall withdraw a
blood sample for the purpose of determining the alcohol, drug, controlled
substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or combination content of the
whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma. This limitation does not apply to
the taking of breath, oral fluid, or urine specimens. A person authorized to
withdraw blood under this division may refuse to withdraw blood under this
division, if in that person’s opinion, the physical welfare of the person would
be endangered by the withdrawing of blood. The bodily substance withdrawn under
this subsection (d)(1)B. shall be analyzed in accordance with methods approved
by the Director of Health by an individual possessing a valid permit issued by
the Director pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3701.143.
         C.   As used in subsection (e)(1)B. of this section, “emergency
medical technician-intermediate” and “emergency medical technician- paramedic”
have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for
violation of subsection (a) of this section or for an equivalent offense that
is vehicle related, if there was at the time the bodily substance was withdrawn
a concentration of less than the applicable concentration of alcohol specified
in subsections (a)(1)B., C., D. and E. of this section, or less than the
applicable concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance specified for a violation of subsection
(a)(1)J. of this section, that fact may be considered with other competent
evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant. This
subsection does not limit or affect a criminal prosecution or juvenile court
proceeding for a violation of subsection (b) of this section or for an
equivalent offense that is substantially equivalent to that subsection.
      (3)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney,
immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis.
If the chemical test was obtained pursuant to subsection (e)(1)B. hereof, the
person tested may have a physician, a registered nurse, or a qualified
technician, chemist or phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing administer a
chemical test or tests, at the person’s expense, in addition to any
administered at the request of a law enforcement officer. If the person was
under arrest as described in division (A)(5) of Ohio R.C. 4511.191, the
arresting officer shall advise the person at the time of the arrest that the
person may have an independent chemical test taken at the person’s own expense.
If the person was under arrest other than described in division (A)(5) of Ohio
R.C. 4511.191, the form to be read to the person to be tested, as required
under Ohio R.C. 4511.192, shall state that the person may have an independent
test performed at the person’s expense. The failure or inability to obtain an
additional chemical test by a person shall not preclude the admission of
evidence relating to the chemical test or tests taken at the request of a law
enforcement officer.
      (4)   A.   As used in subsections (e)(4)B. and C. of this section,
“national highway traffic safety administration” means the National Traffic
Highway Safety Administration established as an administration of the United
States Department of Transportation under 96 Stat. 2415 (1983), 49 U.S.C.A.
105.
         B.   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of subsection (a) or (b) of this section, of a municipal ordinance
relating to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, or of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, oral fluid, or urine, if a law enforcement officer has
administered a field sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in
the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally accepted field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect that were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
subsection (e)(4)B.1. or 2. of this section and if the testimony or evidence is
admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the testimony or
evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the trier of fact
considers to be appropriate.
         C.   Subsection (e)(4)B. of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that
subsection, from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise
disallowed by subsection (e)(4)B. of this section. (ORC 4511.19; 4511.194)
   (f)   Forensic Laboratory Reports.  
      (1)   Subject to subsection (f)(3) of this section, in any criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of subsection (a)
(1)B., C., D., E., F., G., H., I., or J. or (b)(1), (2), (3) or (4) of this
section or for an equivalent offense that is substantially equivalent to any of
those subsections, a laboratory report from any laboratory personnel issued a
permit by the Department of Health authorizing an analysis as described in this
subsection that contains an analysis of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, urine, or other bodily substance tested and that contains all of the
information specified in this subsection shall be admitted as prima- facie
evidence of the information and statements that the report contains. The
laboratory report shall contain all of the following:
         A.   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         B.   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them that was found;
         C.   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director or a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties;
         D.   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training, and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in subsection (f)(1) of this
section is not admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any
proceeding, other than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless
the prosecutor has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or,
if the defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in subsection (f)(1) of this section
shall not be prima-facie evidence of the contents, identity, or amount of any
substance if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains
or the defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (g)   Immunity From Liability For Withdrawing Blood. Except as otherwise
provided in this subsection, any physician, registered nurse, emergency medical
technician-intermediate, emergency medical technician-paramedic, or qualified
technician, chemist, or phlebotomist who withdraws blood from a person pursuant
to this section or Ohio R.C. 4511.191 or 4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid
station, or clinic at which blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this
section or Ohio R.C. 4511.191 or 4511.192, is immune from criminal liability
and civil liability based upon a claim of assault and battery or any other
claim that is not a claim of malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing
blood from the person. The immunity provided in this subsection also extends to
an emergency medical service organization that employs an emergency medical
technician-intermediate or emergency medical technician-paramedic who withdraws
blood under this section. The immunity provided in this subsection is not
available to a person who withdraws blood if the person engaged in willful or
wanton misconduct.
   As used in this subsection, “emergency medical technician-intermediate” and
“emergency medical technician-paramedic” have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C.
4765.01.
   (h)   General OVI Penalty.  
      (1)   Whoever violates any provision of subsections (a)(1)A. to I. or (a)
(2) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle under the influence of
alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them. Whoever violates subsection
(a)(1)J. of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle while under the
influence of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance. The court shall sentence the offender for either offense
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929, and this Traffic Code, except as otherwise
authorized or required by subsections (h)(1)A. to E. of this section:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in subsections (h)(1)B., C., D. or
E. of this section, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree, and the court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
            1.   If the sentence is being imposed for a violation of
subsections (a)(1)A., B., C., D., E., or J. of this section, a mandatory jail
term of three consecutive days. As used in this subsection, three consecutive
days means seventy-two consecutive hours. The court may sentence an offender to
both an intervention program and a jail term. The court may impose a jail term
in addition to the three-day mandatory jail term or intervention program.
However, in no case shall the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense
exceed six months.
The court may suspend the execution of the three-day jail term under this
subsection if the court, in lieu of that suspended term, places the offender
under a community control sanction pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.25 and requires
the offender to attend, for three consecutive days, a drivers’ intervention
program certified under Ohio R.C. 5119.38.
The court also may suspend the execution of any part of the three-day jail term
under this subsection if it places the offender under a community control
sanction pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.25 for part of the three days, requires the
offender to attend for the suspended part of the term a drivers’ intervention
program so certified, and sentences the offender to a jail term equal to the
remainder of the three consecutive days that the offender does not spend
attending the program. The court may require the offender, as a
condition of community control and in addition to the required attendance at a
drivers’ intervention program, to attend and satisfactorily complete any
treatment or education programs that comply with the minimum standards adopted
pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 5119 by the Director of Mental Health and
Addiction Services that the operators of the drivers’ intervention program
determine that the offender should attend and to report periodically to the
court on the offender’s progress in the programs. The court also may impose on
the offender any other conditions of community control that it considers
necessary.
If the court grants unlimited driving privileges to a first-time offender under
Ohio R.C. 4510.022, all penalties imposed upon the offender by the court under
subsection (h)(1)A.1. of this section for the offense apply, except that the
court shall suspend any mandatory or additional jail term imposed by the court
under subsection (h)(1)A.1. of this section upon granting unlimited driving
privileges in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4510.022.
            2.   If the sentence is being imposed for a violation of subsection
(a)(1)F., G., H. or I. or (a)(2) of this section, except as otherwise provided
in this subsection, a mandatory jail term of at least three consecutive days
and a requirement that the offender attend, for three consecutive days, a
drivers’ intervention program that is certified pursuant to Ohio R.C. 5119.38.
As used in this subsection, three consecutive days means seventy-two
consecutive hours. If the court determines that the offender is not conducive
to treatment in a drivers’ intervention program, if the offender refuses to
attend a drivers’ intervention program, or if the jail at which the offender is
to serve the jail term imposed can provide a drivers’ intervention program, the
court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term of at least six
consecutive days.
If the court grants unlimited driving privileges to a first-time offender under
Ohio R.C. 4510.022, all penalties imposed upon the offender by the court under
subsection (h)(1)A.2. of this section for the offense apply, except that the
court shall suspend any mandatory or additional jail term imposed by the court
under subsection (h)(1)A.2. of this section upon granting unlimited driving
privileges in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4510.022.
The court may require the offender, under a community control sanction imposed
under Ohio R.C. 2929.25, to attend and satisfactorily complete any treatment or
education programs that comply with the minimum standards adopted pursuant to
Ohio R.C. Chapter 5119 by the Director of Mental Health and Addiction Services,
in addition to the required attendance at drivers’ intervention program, that
the operators of the drivers’ intervention program determine that the offender
should attend and to report periodically to the court on the offender’s
progress in the programs. The court also may impose any other conditions of
community control on the offender that it considers necessary.
            3.   In all cases, a fine of not less than three hundred seventy-
five dollars ($375.00) and not more than one thousand seventy-five dollars
($1,075).
            4.   In all cases, a suspension of the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege for a
definite period of one to three years. The court may grant limited driving
privileges relative to the suspension under Ohio R.C. 4510.021 and 4510.13. The
court may grant unlimited driving privileges with an ignition interlock device
relative to the suspension and may reduce the period of suspension as
authorized under Ohio R.C. 4510.022.
         B.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (h)(1)E. of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of subsection (a) or (b) of
this section or one other equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
            1.   If the sentence is being imposed for a violation of subsection
(a)(1)A., B., C., D., E., or J. of this section, a mandatory jail term of ten
consecutive days. The court shall impose the ten-day mandatory jail term under
this subsection unless, subject to subsection (h)(3) of this section, it
instead imposes a sentence under that subsection consisting of both a jail term
and a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring, with continuous alcohol
monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring. The court may impose a jail term in addition to the ten-day
mandatory jail term. The cumulative jail term imposed for the offense shall not
exceed six months.
In addition to the jail term or the term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring or both types of monitoring and
jail term, the court shall require the offender to be assessed by a community
addiction services provider that is authorized by Ohio R.C. 5119.21, subject to
subsection (k) of this section, and shall order the offender to follow the
treatment recommendations of the services provider. The purpose of the
assessment is to determine the degree of the offender’s alcohol usage and to
determine whether or not treatment is warranted. Upon the request of the court,
the services provider shall submit the results of the assessment to the court,
including all treatment recommendations and clinical diagnoses related to
alcohol use.
            2.   If the sentence is being imposed for a violation of subsection
(a)(1)F., G., H. or I. or (a)(2) of this section, except as otherwise provided
in this subsection, a mandatory jail term of twenty consecutive days. The court
shall impose the twenty-day mandatory jail term under this subsection unless,
subject to subsection (h)(3) of this section, it instead imposes a sentence
under that subsection consisting of both a jail term and a term of house arrest
with electronic monitoring, with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both
electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol monitoring. The court
may impose a jail term in addition to the twenty-day mandatory jail term. The
cumulative jail term imposed for the offense shall not exceed six months.
In addition to the jail term or the term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring or both types of monitoring and
jail term, the court shall require the offender to be assessed by a community
addiction services provider that is authorized by Ohio R.C. 5119.21, subject to
subsection (k) of this section, and shall order the offender to follow the
treatment recommendations of the services provider. The purpose of the
assessment is to determine the degree of the offender’s alcohol usage and to
determine whether or not treatment is warranted. Upon the request of the court,
the services provider shall submit the results of the assessment to the court,
including all treatment recommendations and clinical diagnoses related to
alcohol use.
            3.   In all cases, notwithstanding the fines set forth in Section
303.99 , a fine of not less than five hundred twenty-five dollars ($525.00) and
not more than one thousand six hundred twenty-five dollars ($1,625).
            4.   In all cases, a suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege for a definite period of one to
seven years. The court may grant limited driving privileges relative to the
suspension under Ohio R.C. 4510.021 and 4510.13. (ORC 4511.19)
            5.   In all cases, if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s
name, immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense for ninety days in
accordance with Ohio R.C. 4503.233 and impoundment of the license plates of
that vehicle for ninety days. (ORC 4511.193)
         C.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (h)(1)E. of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of subsection (a) or (b) of
this section or other equivalent offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
            1.   If the sentence is being imposed for a violation of subsection
(a)(1)A., B., C., D., E., or J. of this section, a mandatory jail term of
thirty consecutive days. The court shall impose the thirty-day mandatory jail
term under this subsection unless, subject to subsection (h)(3) of this
section, it instead imposes a sentence under that subsection consisting of both
a jail term and a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring, with
continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and
continuous alcohol monitoring. The court may impose a jail term in addition to
the thirty-day mandatory jail term. Notwithstanding the jail terms set forth in
Section
303.99 , the additional jail term shall not exceed one year, and the cumulative
jail term imposed for the offense shall not exceed one year.
            2.   If the sentence is being imposed for a violation of subsection
(a)(1)F., G., H. or I. or (a)(2) of this section, a mandatory jail term of
sixty consecutive days. The court shall impose the sixty-day mandatory jail
term under this subsection unless, subject to subsection (h)(3) of this
section, it instead imposes a sentence under that subsection consisting of both
a jail term and a term of electronically monitored house arrest with continuous
alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring. The court may impose a jail term in addition to the sixty-day
mandatory jail term. Notwithstanding the terms of imprisonment set forth in
Section
303.99 , the additional jail term shall not exceed one year, and the cumulative
jail term imposed for the offense shall not exceed one year.
            3.   In all cases, notwithstanding the fines set forth in Section
303.99 , a fine of not less than eight hundred fifty dollars ($850.00) and not
more than two thousand seven hundred fifty dollars ($2,750).
            4.   In all cases, a suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege for a definite period of two to
twelve years. The court may grant limited driving privileges relative to the
suspension under Ohio R.C. 4510.021 and 4510.13. (ORC 4511.19)
            5.   In all cases, if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s
name, criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense in accordance
with Ohio R.C. 4503.234. Subsection (h)(5) of this section applies regarding
any vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal forfeiture under this
subsection. (ORC 4511.193)
            6.   In all cases, the court shall order the offender to
participate with a community addiction services provider authorized by Ohio
R.C. 5119.21, subject to subsection (k) of this section, and shall order the
offender to follow the treatment recommendations of the services provider. The
operator of the services provider shall determine and assess the degree of the
offender’s alcohol dependency and shall make recommendations for treatment.
Upon the request of the court, the services provider shall submit the results
of the assessment to the court, including all treatment recommendations and
clinical diagnoses related to alcohol use.
         D.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (h)(1)E. of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or four violations of subsection (a) of
this section or other equivalent offenses or an offender who, within twenty
years of the offense, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
five or more violations of that nature, or an offender who previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a specification of the type described in Ohio
R.C. 2941.1413, is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
         E.   An offender who previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A) that was a felony, regardless of
when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, is guilty of a
felony of the third degree and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   An offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
subsection (a) of this section and who subsequently seeks reinstatement of the
driver’s or occupational driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege suspended under this section as a result of the conviction or guilty
plea shall pay a reinstatement fee as provided in division (F)(2) of Ohio R.C.
4511.191.
      (3)   If an offender is sentenced to a jail term under subsection (h)
(1)B.1. or 2. or (h)(1)C.1. or 2. of this section and if, within sixty days of
sentencing of the offender, the court issues a written finding on the record
that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail where the offender is
required to serve the term, the offender will not be able to begin serving that
term within the sixty-day period following the date of sentencing, the court
may impose an alternative sentence under this subsection that includes a term
of house arrest with electronic monitoring, with continuous alcohol monitoring,
or with both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol monitoring.
As an alternative to a mandatory jail term of ten consecutive days required by
subsection (h)(1)B.1. of this section, the court, under this subsection, may
sentence the offender to five consecutive days in jail and not less than
eighteen consecutive days of house arrest with electronic monitoring, with
continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and
continuous alcohol monitoring. The cumulative total of the five consecutive
days in jail and the period of house arrest with electronic monitoring,
continuous alcohol monitoring, or both types of monitoring shall not exceed six
months. The five consecutive days in jail do not have to be served prior to or
consecutively to the period of house arrest.
As an alternative to the mandatory jail term of twenty consecutive days
required by subsection (h)(1)B.2. of this section, the court, under this
subsection, may sentence the offender to ten consecutive days in jail and not
less than thirty-six consecutive days of house arrest with electronic
monitoring, with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic
monitoring and continuous alcohol monitoring. The cumulative total of the ten
consecutive days in jail and the period of house arrest with electronic
monitoring, continuous alcohol monitoring or both types of monitoring shall not
exceed six months. The ten consecutive days in jail do not have to be served
prior to or consecutively to the period of house arrest.
As an alternative to a mandatory jail term of thirty consecutive days required
by subsection (h)(1)C.1. of this section, the court, under this subsection, may
sentence the offender to fifteen consecutive days in jail and not less than
fifty-five consecutive days of house arrest with electronic monitoring, with
continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and
continuous alcohol monitoring. The cumulative total of the fifteen consecutive
days in jail and the period of house arrest with electronic monitoring,
continuous alcohol monitoring or both types of monitoring shall not exceed one
year. The fifteen consecutive days in jail do not have to be served prior to or
consecutively to the period of house arrest.
As an alternative to the mandatory jail term of sixty consecutive days required
by subsection (h)(1)C.2. of this section, the court, under this subsection, may
sentence the offender to thirty consecutive days in jail and not less than one
hundred ten consecutive days of house arrest with electronic monitoring, with
continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and
continuous alcohol monitoring. The cumulative total of the thirty consecutive
days in jail and the period of house arrest with electronic monitoring,
continuous alcohol monitoring, or both types of monitoring shall not exceed one
year. The thirty consecutive days in jail do not have to be served prior to or
consecutively to the period of house arrest.
      (4)   If an offender’s driver’s or occupational driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended under subsection (h) of
this section and if Ohio R.C. 4510.13 permits the court to grant limited
driving privileges, the court may grant the limited driving privileges in
accordance with that section. If division (A)(7) of that section requires that
the court impose as a condition of the privileges that the offender must
display on the vehicle that is driven subject to the privileges restricted
license plates that are issued under Ohio R.C. 4503.231, except as provided in
division (B) of that section, the court shall impose that condition as one of
the conditions of the limited driving privileges granted to the offender,
except as provided in division (B) of Ohio R.C. 4503.231.
      (5)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal
forfeiture under this section is assigned or transferred and division (B)(2) or
(3) of Ohio R.C. 4503.234 applies, in addition to or independent of any other
penalty established by law, the court may fine the offender the value of the
vehicle as determined by publications of the national auto dealers association.
The proceeds of any fine so imposed shall be distributed in accordance with
division (C)(2) of that section.
      (6)   In all cases in which an offender is sentenced under subsection (h)
of this section, the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in Ohio R.C. 4509.01. If the offender fails to
provide that proof of financial responsibility, the court, in addition to any
other penalties provided by law, may order restitution pursuant to Ohio R.C.
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000)
for any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct
and proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during
or after committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under
subsection (h) of this section.
      (7)   A court may order an offender to reimburse a law enforcement agency
for any costs incurred by the agency with respect to a chemical test or tests
administered to the offender if all of the following apply:
         A.   The offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
subsection (a) of this section.
         B.   The test or tests were of the offender’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, oral fluid, or urine.
         C.   The test or tests indicated that the offender had one of the
following at the time of the offense:
            1.    A prohibited concentration of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance in the offender’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine;
            2.    A drug of abuse or a metabolite of a drug of abuse in the
offender’s oral fluid.
      (8)    A court may warn any person who is convicted of or who pleads
guilty to a violation of subsection (a) of this section or an equivalent
offense that a subsequent violation of this section or an equivalent offense
that results in the death of another or the unlawful termination of another’s
pregnancy may result in the person being guilty of aggravated vehicular
homicide under Ohio R.C. 2903.06. The court may warn the person of the
applicable penalties for that violation under Ohio R.C. 2903.06 and 2929.142.
      (9)   As used in subsection (h) of this section, “electronic monitoring”,
“mandatory prison term” and “mandatory term of local incarceration” have the
same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 2929.01.
   (i)   Vehicle Operation After Underage Alcohol Consumption Penalty. Whoever
violates subsection (b) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle after
underage alcohol consumption and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (i)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition to
any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class six
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in division (A)(6) of Ohio R.C. 4510.02.
The court may grant limited driving privileges relative to the suspension under
Ohio R.C. 4510.021 and 4510.13. The court may grant unlimited driving
privileges with an ignition interlock device relative to the suspension and may
reduce the period of suspension as authorized under Ohio R.C. 4510.022. If the
court grants unlimited driving privileges under Ohio R.C. 4510.022, the court
shall suspend any jail term imposed under subsection (i)(1) of this section as
required under that section.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of subsection (a)
of this section or other equivalent offenses, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in division (A)(4) of Ohio R.C. 4510.02. The court may grant limited
driving privileges relative to the suspension under Ohio R.C. 4510.021 and
4510.13.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in Ohio R.C. 4509.01. If the offender fails to
provide that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to Ohio
R.C. 2929.28, in an amount not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) for any
economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during or
after committing the violation of subsection (b) of this section.
         (ORC 4511.19)
   (j)   Physical Control Penalty. Whoever violates subsection (d) hereof is
guilty of having physical control of a vehicle while under the influence, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to other sanctions imposed, the
court may impose on the offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in division (A)(7) of Ohio R.C. 4510.02. (ORC 4511.194)
   (k)   Compliance With Ohio R.C. Chapter 5119 Standards.
      (1)   No court shall sentence an offender to an alcohol treatment program
under this section unless the treatment program complies with the minimum
standards for alcohol treatment programs adopted under Ohio R.C. Chapter 5119
by the Director of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
      (2)   An offender who stays in a driver’s intervention program or in an
alcohol treatment program under an order issued under this section shall pay
the cost of the stay in the program. However, if the court determines that an
offender who stays in an alcohol treatment program under an order issued under
this section is unable to pay the cost of the stay in the program, the court
may order that the cost be paid from the court’s indigent drivers’ alcohol
treatment fund.
   (l)   Appeal Does Not Stay Operation of License Suspension. If a person
whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege is suspended under this section files an appeal regarding
any aspect of the person’s trial or sentence, the appeal itself does not stay
the operation of the suspension.
   (m)   Subsection (a)(1)J. of this section does not apply to a person who
operates a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds the amount
specified in that subsection, if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (n)   The prohibited concentrations of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance listed in subsection (a)(1)J. of this
section also apply in a prosecution of a violation of Ohio R.C. 2923.16(D) in
the same manner as if the offender is being prosecuted for a prohibited
concentration of alcohol.
   (o)   Conflict of Terms. All terms defined in Ohio R.C. 4510.01 apply to
this section. If the meaning of a term defined in Ohio R.C . 4510.01 conflicts
with the meaning of the same term as defined in Ohio R.C. 4501.01 or this
Traffic Code, the term as defined in Ohio R.C. 4510.01 applies to this section.
(ORC 4511.19)
   (p)   Indigent Drivers Alcohol Treatment Fund. Twenty-five dollars ($25.00)
of any fine imposed for a violation of subsection (a) hereof shall be deposited
into the municipal or county indigent drivers alcohol treatment fund pursuant
to Ohio R.C. 4511.193. (ORC 4511.193)
   (q)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   “Equivalent offense” means any of the following:
         A.   A violation of division (A) of Ohio R.C. 4511.19;
         B.   A violation of a municipal OVI ordinance;
         C.   A violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.04 in a case in which the offender
was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that section;
         D.   A violation of division (A)(1) of Ohio R.C. 2903.06 or 2903.08 or
a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those
divisions;
         E.   A violation of division (A)(2), (3) or (4) of Ohio R.C. 2903.06,
division (A)(2) of Ohio R.C. 2903.08, or former Ohio R.C. 2903.07, or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions
or that former section, in a case in which a judge or jury as the trier of fact
found that the offender was under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
a combination of them;
         F.   A violation of division (A) of Ohio R.C. 1547.11;
         G.   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane or similar device on the waters of this
State while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or    from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane or
similar device on the waters of this State with a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine;
         H.   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
division (A) of Ohio R.C. 4511.19 or division (A) of Ohio R.C. 1547.11;
         I.   A violation of a former law of this State that was substantially
equivalent to division (A) of Ohio R.C. 4511.19 or division (A) of Ohio R.C.
1547.11;
      (2)   “Mandatory jail term” means the mandatory term in jail of three,
six, ten, twenty, thirty, or sixty days that must be imposed under subsection
(h)(1)A., B. or C. upon an offender convicted of a violation of subsection (a)
hereof and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         A.   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail.
         B.   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced or otherwise modified pursuant to Ohio R.C.
2929.21 to 2929.28, or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (3)   “Municipal OVI ordinance” and “municipal OVI offense” mean any
municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or
prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration
of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance
in the whole blood, blood serum, or plasma, breath or urine.
      (4)   “Community residential sanction”, “continuous alcohol monitoring”,
“jail”, “mandatory prison term”, “mandatory term of local incarceration”,
“sanction” and “prison term” have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 2929.01.
      (5)   “Drug of abuse” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4506.01.
      (6)   “Equivalent offense that is vehicle-related” means an equivalent
offense that is any of the following:
         A.   A violation described in subsection (q)(1), (2), (3), (4) or (5)
hereof;
         B.   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
division (A) or (B) of Ohio R.C. 4511.19;
         C.   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to division (A) or (B) of Ohio R.C. 4511.19.
            (ORC 4511.181)
333.02 OPERATION IN WILLFUL OR WANTON DISREGARD OF SAFETY.
   (a)    No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful
or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property. (ORC 4511.20)
   (b)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private property
other than streets or highways, in willful or wanton disregard of the safety of
persons or property.
   This subsection does not apply to the competitive operation of vehicles on
public or private property when the owner of such property knowingly permits
such operation thereon.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree. (ORC 4511.201)
   (d)   Whenever a person is found guilty under this section of operating a
motor vehicle in violation of this section relating to reckless operation, the
trial court of any court of record, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may impose a class five suspension of the offender’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in division (A)(5) of Ohio R.C. 4510.02.
(ORC 4510.15)
333.03 MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS; ASSURED CLEAR DISTANCE AHEAD.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and
width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed
than will permit the person to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (b)   It is prima-facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared
pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4511.21 by the Ohio Director of Transportation or
Council, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed not
exceeding the following:
      (1)   A.   Twenty miles per hour in school zones during school recess and
while children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing
hours, and when twenty miles per hour school speed limit signs are erected. The
end of every school zone may be marked by a sign indicating the end of the
zone. Nothing in this section or in the manual and specifications for a uniform
system of traffic control devices shall be construed to require school zones to
be indicated by signs equipped with flashing or other lights, or giving other
special notice of the hours in which the school zone speed limit is in effect.
          B.   As used in this section, “school” means all of the following:
            1.    Any school chartered under Ohio R.C. 3301.16;
            2.    Any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce in compliance with O.A.C. §
3301-35-08, a copy of the school’s report for the parents of the school’s
pupils certifying that the school meets state minimum standards for
nonchartered, nontax-supported schools and presents evidence of this filing to
the jurisdiction from which it is requesting the establishment of a school
zone;
            3.    Any special elementary school that in writing requests the
County Engineer to create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon
receipt of such written request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone
at that location by erecting appropriate signs;
            4.    Any preschool education program operated by an educational
service center that is located on a street or highway with a speed limit of
forty-five miles per hour or more, when the educational service center in
writing requests that either the Director of Transportation or the County
Engineer, as applicable based on who has jurisdiction of the street or highway,
to create a school zone at the location of that program. Upon receipt of such a
written request, the Director of Transportation or the County Engineer shall
create a school zone at that location by erecting the appropriate signs.
         C.   As used in this section, "school zone" means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway. Upon request from the Municipality for streets and highways under its
jurisdiction, the Ohio Director of Transportation may extend the traditional
school zone boundaries. The distances in subsections (b)(1)C.1. to 3. hereof
shall not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction and are bounded by
whichever of the following distances or combinations thereof the Director
approves as most appropriate:
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction of highway;
            Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director's initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in subsections (b)
(1)A. and C. hereof.
         D.   As used in this subsection, "crosswalk" has the meaning given
that term in Section 
301.21 . The Director may, upon request by resolution of Council, and upon
submission by the Municipality of such engineering, traffic and other
information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school zone on any
portion of a    State route lying within the Municipality that includes a
crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school during
recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured in a
straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of the crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
on each approach direction of the State route;
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in all other portions of the
Municipality, except on State routes outside business districts, through
highways outside business districts and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five miles per hour on all State routes or through highways
within the Municipality outside business districts, except as provided in
subsections (b)(4) and (5) hereof;
      (4)   Fifty miles per hour on controlled-access highways and expressways
within the Municipality, except as provided in subsections (b)(8) to (b)(12) of
this section;
      (5)   Fifty miles per hour on State routes within the Municipality
outside urban districts unless a lower prima-facie speed is established as
further provided in this section;
      (6)   Fifteen miles per hour on all alleys within the Municipality;
      (7)   Fifty-five miles per hour on freeways with paved shoulders inside
the Municipality other than freeways as provided in subsection (b)(10) and
(12);
      (8)   Sixty miles per hour on rural expressways with traffic control
signals and on all portions of rural divided highways, except as provided in
subsections (b)(9) and (10) of this section;
      (9)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all rural expressways without traffic
control signals;
      (10)   Seventy miles per hour on all rural freeways;
      (11)   Fifty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways in congested areas as determined by the Director and that are
located within a municipal corporation or within an interstate freeway
outerbelt, except as provided in subsection (b)(12) of this section;
      (12)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways without traffic control signals in urbanized areas.
   (c)   It is prima-facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in subsection (b)(1)A. to (b)(6) hereof, or any declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director or local authorities and
it is unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed limitations in
subsection (d) hereof. No person shall be convicted of more than one violation
of this section for the same conduct, although violations of more than one
provision of this section may be charged in the alternative in a single
affidavit.
   (d)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding fifty-five miles per hour, except upon a
highway, expressway or freeway as provided in subsection (b)(8), (9), (10) and
(12) hereof;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding sixty miles per hour upon a highway as
provided in subsection (b)(8) hereof;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding sixty-five miles per hour upon an expressway
as provided in subsection (b)(9) hereof, or upon a freeway as provided in
subsection (b)(12) of this section, except upon a freeway as provided in
subsection (b)(10) hereof;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding seventy miles per hour upon a freeway as
provided in subsection (b)(10) hereof;
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
   (e)   In every charge of violation of this section the affidavit and warrant
shall specify the time, place and speed at which the defendant is alleged to
have driven, and in charges made in reliance upon subsection (c) hereof also
the speed which subsections (b)(1)A. to (b)(6) hereof, or a limit declared or
established pursuant to this section declares is prima-facie lawful at the time
and place of such alleged violation, except that in affidavits where a person
is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than will permit the person to
bring the vehicle to a stop within the assured clear distance ahead the
affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which the defendant is
alleged to have driven.
   (f)   When a speed in excess of both a prima-facie limitation and a
limitation in subsection (d) hereof is alleged, the defendant shall be charged
in a single affidavit, alleging a single act, with a violation indicated of
both subsections (b)(1)A. to (b)(6) hereof, or of a limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director or local authorities, and
of the limitation in subsection (d) hereof. If the court finds a violation of
subsection (b)(1)A. to (b)(6) hereof, or a limit declared or established
pursuant to this section has occurred, it shall enter a judgment of conviction
under such subsection and dismiss the charge under subsection (d) hereof. If it
finds no violation of subsections (b)(1)A. to (b)(6) hereof or a limit declared
or established pursuant to this section, it shall then consider whether the
evidence supports a conviction under subsection (d) hereof.
   (g)   Points shall be assessed for violation of a limitation under
subsection (d) hereof in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4510.036.
   (h)   Whenever, in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4511.21 or this section, the
speed limitations as established herein have been altered, either higher or
lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been erected as required,
operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed limitations set
forth on such signs. It is prima-facie unlawful for any person to exceed the
speed limits posted upon such signs.
   (i)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Interstate system" has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C.A. 101.
      (2)   "Commercial bus" means a motor vehicle designed for carrying more
than nine passengers and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
      (3)   "Noncommercial bus" includes but is not limited to a school bus, or
a motor vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated
with a charitable or nonprofit organization.
      (4)   “Outerbelt” means a portion of a freeway that is part of the
interstate system and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal
corporation or group of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      (5)   “Rural” means an area outside urbanized areas and outside of a
business or urban district, and areas that extend within urbanized areas where
the roadway characteristics remain mostly unchanged from those outside the
urbanized areas.
      (6)   “Urbanized area” has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. 101.
      (7)   “Divided” means a roadway having two or more travel lanes for
vehicles moving in opposite directions and that is separated by a median of
more than four feet, excluding turn lanes.
   (j)   (1)   A violation of any provision of this section is one of the
following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in subsections (j)(1)B., (1)C., (2)
and (3) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
         B.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of this
section or of any provision of Ohio R.C. 4511.21 or a municipal ordinance that
is substantially similar to any provision of this section, a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree;
         C.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of this section or of any provision of Ohio R.C. 4511.21 or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially similar to any provision of this
section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender operated a motor vehicle faster than thirty-five
miles an hour in a business district of a municipal corporation, faster than
fifty miles an hour in other portions of a municipal corporation, or faster
than thirty-five miles an hour in a school zone during recess or while children
are going to or leaving school during the school’s opening or closing hours, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. This subsection does not apply if penalties
may be imposed under subsections (j)(1)B. or (j)(1)C. of this section.
      (3)   Notwithstanding subsection (j)(1) of this section, if the offender
operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then posted in
accordance with Ohio R.C. 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other
penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times
the usual amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two
times the usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the
offender alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this subsection and if the court determines that the offender is an
indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
      (4)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991  of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.21)
333.031 APPROACHING A STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY, EMERGENCY OR ROAD SERVICE
VEHICLE.
   (a)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection
vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor
vehicle inspections in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4923.04 and 4923.06 or a
highway maintenance vehicle that is displaying the appropriate visual signals
by means of flashing, oscillating or rotating lights, as prescribed in Section
337.16, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a street or
highway that consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same
direction of travel as that of the driver’s motor vehicle, the driver shall
proceed with due caution and, if possible with due regard to the road, weather,
and traffic conditions, shall change lanes into a lane that is not adjacent to
that of the stationary public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service
vehicle, waste collection vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities
Commission to conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance with Ohio R.C.
4923.04 and 4923.06 or a highway maintenance vehicle.
      (2)   If the driver is not traveling on a street or highway of a type
described in subsection (a)(1) of this section, or if the driver is traveling
on a highway of that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so
would be unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of
the motor vehicle, and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather and traffic
conditions.
   (b)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle,
emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection vehicle, vehicle used
by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle inspections in
accordance with Ohio R.C. 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle
from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons and
property upon the highway.
   (c)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
subsection (a)(1) or (2) of this section when so required by subsection (a) of
this section.
   (d)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding Section
303.99(b), upon a finding that a person operated a motor vehicle in violation
of subsection (c) of this section, the court, in addition to all other
penalties provided by law, shall impose a fine of two times the usual amount
imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code.
   (e)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and Ohio R.C. 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense
as a strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense. (ORC 4511.213)
333.04 STOPPING VEHICLE; SLOW SPEED; POSTED MINIMUM SPEEDS.
   (a)   No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to
comply with law.
   (b)   Whenever, in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4511.22(B), the minimum speed
limit of a controlled-access highway, expressway or freeway has been declared
and the appropriate signs giving notice have been erected as required,
operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed limitations set
forth on such signs. No person shall operate a motor vehicle below the speed
limits posted upon such signs except when necessary for safe operation or in
compliance with law.
   
   (c)   In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact, in
determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.22)
333.05 SPEED LIMITATIONS OVER BRIDGES.
   (a)   No person shall operate a vehicle over any bridge or other elevated
structure constituting a part of a street at a speed which is greater then the
maximum speed that can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure,
when such structure is posted with authorized signs stating such maximum speed.
Such signs shall be erected and maintained at a distance of at least 100 feet
before each end of such structure.
   (b)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this section,
proof of the determination of the maximum speed and the existence of such signs
shall constitute prima-facie evidence of the maximum speed which can be
maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.23)
333.06 SPEED EXCEPTIONS FOR EMERGENCY OR SAFETY VEHICLES.
   The prima-facie speed limitations set forth in Section
333.03 do not apply to emergency vehicles or public safety vehicles when they
are responding to emergency calls and are equipped with and displaying at least
one flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle and when the
drivers thereof sound audible signals by bell, siren or exhaust whistle. This
section does not relieve the driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons
using the street or highway. (ORC 4511.24)
333.07 STREET RACING, STUNT DRIVING AND STREET TAKEOVERS PROHIBITED.
   (a)    As used in this section:
      (1)   BURNOUT. A maneuver performed while operating a vehicle whereby the
vehicle is kept in a stationary position, but the wheels of the vehicle are
spun, which may cause the tires of the vehicle to become heated and emit smoke
from the friction.
      (2)   DOUGHNUT. A maneuver performed while operating a vehicle whereby
the front or rear of the vehicle is rotated around the opposite set of wheels
in a continuous motion, which may cause a circular skid-mark pattern of rubber
on the driving surface, or the tires of the vehicle to become heated and emit
smoke from the friction, or both.
      (3)   DRIFTING. A maneuver performed while operating a vehicle whereby
the vehicle is driven in a manner that causes a controlled, sideways skid
during a turn, with the front wheels pointing in a direction that is the
opposite of the direction of the turn.
      (4)   STREET RACING. The operation of two or more vehicles from a point
side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive attempt to out-distance
each other or the operation of one or more vehicles over a common selected
course, from the same point to the same point, wherein timing is made of the
participating vehicles involving competitive accelerations or speeds. The
operation of two or more vehicles side by side either at speeds in excess of
prima-facie lawful speeds established by Ohio R.C. 4511.21(B)(1)(a) to (B)(9)
or rapidly accelerating from a common starting point to a speed in
excess of such prima-facie lawful speeds shall be prima-facie evidence of
street racing.
      (5)   STREET TAKEOVER. Blocking or impeding the regular flow of vehicle
or pedestrian traffic on a public road, street, or highway or on private
property that is open to the general public for the purpose of street racing or
stunt driving.
      (6)   STUNT DRIVING. Performing or engaging in burnouts, doughnuts,
drifting, or wheelies, or allowing a passenger to ride either partially or
fully outside of the vehicle while operating that vehicle.
      (7)   WHEELIE. A maneuver performed while operating a vehicle whereby the
front wheel or wheels of the vehicle are raised off of the ground or whereby
two wheels that are on the same side of the vehicle are raised off of the
ground.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly participate in street racing, stunt driving,
or street takeover upon any public road, street, or highway, or on private
property that is open to the general public.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, stunt
driving, or street takeover, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to
any other sanctions, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege for not less than thirty days or
more than three years. No judge shall suspend the first thirty days of any
suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege imposed under this
division.
   (d)   Persons rendering assistance in any manner to street racing, stunt
driving, or street takeover shall be equally charged as the participants.
   (e)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of vehicles
on public or private property when the political subdivision with jurisdiction
of the location or owner of the property knowingly permits such operation
thereon. (ORC 4511.251)
333.08 CERTAIN STREETS TO BE ALLEYS.
   The following streets are declared to be alleys, as defined in Section
301.03:
   (a)   That portion of the northbound lanes of Far Hills Avenue which is
utilized as a parking area and cruise lane, which is separated from the
remaining paved portion of Far Hills Avenue by a section of real estate
improved with physical barriers thereon, and which lies immediately to the east
of said remaining northbound lanes of Far Hills Avenue, said portion beginning
at the south city limits and extending northward to Peach Orchard Drive.
   (b)   That portion of the southbound lanes of Far Hills Avenue which is
utilized as a parking area and cruise lane, which is separated from the
remaining paved portion of Far Hills Avenue by a section of real estate
improved with physical barriers thereon, and which lies immediately to the west
of said remaining southbound lanes of Far Hills Avenue, said portion beginning
at Peach Orchard Drive and extending southward to the north property line of
Lot 3854, said Lot 3854 being located at the northwest corner of the
intersection of Dell Park Avenue and Far Hills Avenue.
      (Ord. 2917. Passed 5-5-75.)
333.09 CERTAIN STREETS NOT TO BE THROUGH STREETS OR HIGHWAYS.
   The following streets are hereby designated not to fall in the
classification of "through streets or highways," as defined in
301.43,  with the result that the prima-facie speed limit applicable to these
streets shall be twenty-five miles per hour: Shafor Boulevard and East Schantz
Avenue. (Ord. 2966. Passed 6-21-76; Ord. 3066. Passed 10-2-78.)
333.10 OPERATION IN VIOLATION OF IMMOBILIZATION ORDER.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or permit the operation of a
motor vehicle upon any public or private property used by the public for
vehicular travel or parking knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that
the motor vehicle has been ordered immobilized pursuant to an immobilization
order issued under Ohio R.C. 4503.233.
   (b)   A motor vehicle that is operated by a person during a violation of
subsection (a) hereof shall be criminally forfeited in accordance with the
procedures contained in Ohio R.C. 4503.234.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
(ORC 4503.236)
333.11 ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICE USE PROHIBITED WHILE DRIVING.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or
property open to the public for vehicular traffic while using, holding, or
physically supporting with any part of the person’s body an electronic wireless
communications device.
   (b)   Subsection (a) of this section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device to make
contact, for emergency purposes, with a law enforcement agency, hospital or
health care provider, fire department, or other similar emergency agency or
entity.
      (2)   A person driving a public safety vehicle while using an electronic
wireless communications device in the course of the person’s duties.
      (3)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device when
the person’s motor vehicle is in a stationary position and is outside a lane of
travel, at a highway traffic signal that is currently directing traffic to
stop, or parked on a road or highway due to an emergency or road closure;
      (4)   A person using and holding an electronic wireless communications
device directly near the person’s ear for the purpose of making, receiving, or
conducting a telephone call, provided that the person does not manually enter
letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
      (5)   A person receiving wireless messages on an electronic wireless
communications device regarding the operation or navigation of a motor vehicle;
safety-related information, including emergency, traffic, or weather alerts; or
data used primarily by the motor vehicle, provided that the person does not
hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (6)   A person using the speaker phone function of the electronic
wireless communications device, provided that the person does not hold or
support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (7)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
navigation purposes, provided that the person does not do either of the
following during the use:
         A.   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         B.   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (8)   A person using a feature or function of the electronic wireless
communications device with a single touch or single swipe, provided that the
person does not do either of the following during the use:
         A.   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         B.   Hold or support the device wtih any part of the person’s body;
      (9)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data;
      (10)   A person operating a utilty service vehicle or a vehicle for or on
behalf of a utility, if the person is acting in response to an emergency, power
outage, or circumstance that affects the health or safety of individuals;
      (11)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device in
conjunction with a voice-operated or hands-free feature or function of the
vehicle or of the device without the use of either hand except to activate,
deactivate, or initiate the feature or function with a single touch or swipe,
provided the person does not hold or support the device with any part of the
person’s body;
      (12)   A person using technology that physically or electronically
integrates the device into the motor vehicle, provided that the person does not
do either of the following during the use:
         A.   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         B.   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (13)   A person storing an electronic wireless communications device in a
holster, harness, or article of clothing on the person’s body.
   (c)   If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a ticket, citation or
summons for a violation of subsection (a) of this section, the officer shall do
both of the following:
      (1)   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation, or summons to the
officer’s law enforcement agency;
      (2)   Ensure that such report indicates the offender’s race.
   (d)   Whoever violates subsection (a) of this section is guilty of operating
a motor vehicle while using an electronic wireless communication device, an
unclassified misdemeanor, and shall be punished as provided in subsections (d)
(1) to (5) of this section.
      (1)   The offender shall be fined, and is subject to a suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege, as follows:
         A.   Except as provided in subsections (d)(1)B., (d)(1)C., (d)(1)D.
and (d)(2) of this section, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine of
not more than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
         B.   If, within two years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one prior violation of this section, Ohio
R.C. 4511.204, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court
shall impose upon the offender a fine of not more than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00).
         C.   If, within two years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more prior violations of this section,
Ohio R.C. 4511.204, or a substantially equivalent or municipal ordinance, the
court shall impose upon the offender a fine of not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). The court also may impose a suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege for ninety days.
         D.   Notwithstanding subsections (d)(1)A. to (d)(1)C. of this section,
if the offender was operating the motor vehicle at the time of the violation in
a construction zone where a sign was posted in accordance with Ohio R.C.
4511.98, the court, in addition to all other penalties provided by law, shall
impose upon the offender a fine of two times the amount imposed for the
violation under subsections (d)(1)A., (d)(1)B., or (d)(1)C. of this section, as
applicable.
      (2)   If the offender is in the category of offenders to whom subsection
(d)(1)A of this section applies, in lieu of payment of the fine of one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00) under subsection (d)(1)A. of this section and the
assessment of points under subsection (d)(4) of this section, the offender
instead may elect to attend the distracted driving safety course, as described
in Section
303.991 . If the offender attends and successfully completes the course, the
offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall not be required to pay the fine and
shall not have the points assessed against that offender’s driver’s license if
the offender submits the written evidence to the court. This subsection does
not apply with respect to any offender in the category of offenders to whom
subsection (d)(1)B., C., or D. of this section applies.
      (3)   The court may impose any other penalty authorized under Ohio R.C.
2929.21 to 2929.28. However, the court shall not impose a fine or a suspension
not otherwise specified in subsection (d)(1) of this section. The court also
shall not impose a jail term or community residential sanction.
      (4)   Except as provided in subsection (d)(2) of this section, points
shall be assessed for a violation of subsection (a) of this section in
accordance with Ohio R.C. 4510.036.
      (5)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and Ohio R.C. 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense
as a strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
   (e)   A prosecution for an offense in violation of this section does not
preclude a prosecution for an offense in violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.204 based
on the same conduct. However, the two offenses are allied offenses of similar
import under Ohio R.C. 2941.25.
   (f)   (1)   A law enforcement officer does not have probable cause and shall
not stop the operator of a motor vehicle for the purposes of enforcing this
section unless the officer visually observes the operator using, holding, or
physically supporting with any part of the person’s body the electronic
wireless communications device.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer who stops the operator of a motor vehicle
for a violation of subsection (a) of this section shall inform the operator
that the operator may decline a search of the operator’s electronic wireless
communications device. The officer shall not do any of the following:
         A.   Access the device without a warrant unless the operator
voluntarily and unequivocally gives consent for the officer to access the
device;
         B.   Confiscate the device while awaiting the issuance of a warrant to
access the device;
         C.   Obtain consent from the operator to access the device through
coercion or any other improper means. Any consent by the operator to access the
device shall be voluntary and unequivocal before the officer may access the
device without a warrant.
   (g)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Electronic wireless communications device”, includes any of the
following:
         A.   A wireless telephone;
         B.   A text-messaging device;
         C.   A personal digital assistant;
         D.   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
         E.   Any device capable of displaying a video, movie, broadcast
television image, or visual image;
         F.   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is designed
or used to communicate text, initiate or receive communication, or exchange
information or data.
An “electronic wireless communications device” does not include a two- way
radio transmitter or receiver used by a person who is licensed by the federal
communications commission to participate in the amateur radio service.
      (2)   “Utility” means an entity specified in Ohio R.C. 4905.03(A), (C),
(D), (E) or (G).
      (3)   “Utility service vehicle” means a vehicle owned or operated by a
utility.
      (4)   “Voice-operated or hands-free feature or function” means a feature
or function that allows a person to use an electronic wireless communications
device without the use of either hand, except to activate, deactivate, or
initiate the feature or function with a single touch or single swipe.
         (ORC 4511.204)
CHAPTER 335
Licensing; Accidents
335.01   Driver’s license or commercial driver’s license required.
335.02   Permitting operation without valid license; one license permitted.
335.021   Ohio driver’s license required for in state residents.
335.03   Driving with temporary instruction permit; curfew.
335.031   Driving with probationary license; curfew.
335.032   Use of electronic wireless communication device prohibited while
driving.
335.04   Certain acts prohibited.
335.05   Wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
335.06   Display of license.
335.07   Driving under suspension or license restriction.
335.071   Driving under OVI suspension.
335.072   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or
cancellation; driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension.
335.073   Driving without complying with license reinstatement requirements.
335.074   Driving under license forfeiture or child support suspension.
335.08   Operation or sale without certificate of title.
335.09   Display of license plates or validation stickers; registration.
335.091   Operating without dealer or manufacturer license plates.
335.10   Expired or unlawful license plates.
335.11   Use of illegal license plates; transfer of registration.
335.111   Registration within thirty days of residency.
335.12   Stopping after accident upon streets; collision with unattended
vehicle.
335.13   Stopping after accident upon property other than street.
335.14   Vehicle accident resulting in damage to realty.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
See sectional histories for similar State law
Deposit of driver's license as bond - see Ohio R.C. 2937.221
Motor vehicle licensing law - see Ohio R.C. Ch. 4503
Driver's license law - see Ohio R.C. Ch. 4507
Power of trial court of record to suspend or revoke license for certain
violations - see Ohio R.C. Ch. 4510
State point system suspension - see Ohio R.C. 4510.03.6
State accident reports - see Ohio R.C. 4509.01(J), 4509.06, 4509.74, 5502.11
Motorized bicycle operator's license - see Ohio R.C. 4511.521
Glass removal from street after accident - see TRAF.
311.01
 
 
335.01 DRIVER'S LICENSE OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under Ohio R.C.
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public
road or highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this Municipality unless the person
has a valid driver's license issued under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 or a
commercial driver's license issued under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under Ohio R.C.
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this Municipality unless the person has a valid
license as a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507. The license shall be
in the form of an endorsement, as determined by the Registrar, upon a driver’s
or commercial driver’s license, if the person has a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle, or in the form of a restricted
license as provided in Ohio R.C. 4507.14, if the person does not have a valid
license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle.
   (b)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of subsection (a)(1) or (2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima-facie evidence that the person did not have either a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license at the time of the alleged violation of
subsection (a)(1) of this section or a valid license as a motorcycle operator
either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or a restricted license at the time of the alleged violation of
subsection (a)(2) of this section. The person charged with a violation of
subsection (a)(1) or (2) of this section may offer evidence to rebut this
prima-facie evidence.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender, if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator, either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this subsection, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.26; notwithstanding division
(A)(2)(a) of Ohio R.C. 2929.28, the offender may be fined up to one thousand
dollars ($1,000); and, notwithstanding division (A)(3) of Ohio R.C. 2929.27,
the offender may be ordered pursuant to division (C) of that section to serve a
term of community service of up to five hundred hours.
The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service imposed by
the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under division (A) of
Ohio R.C. 2705.02 that may be filed in the underlying case. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of Ohio
R.C. 4510.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender’s restricted license was expired at the time of the
offense, except as otherwise provided in this subsection, the offense is a
minor misdemeanor. If, within three years of the offense, the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of
Ohio R.C. 4510.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
offense is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (d)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender’s
last violation of Ohio R.C. 4510.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (e)   If the offender is sentenced under subsection (c)(2) hereof, if within
three years of the offense the offender previously was convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more violations of Ohio R.C. 4510.12 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and if the offender’s license was expired for
more than six months at the time of the offense, the court may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in division (A)(7) of Ohio R.C.
4510.02.
(ORC 4510.12)
   
335.02 PERMITTING OPERATION WITHOUT VALID LICENSE; ONE LICENSE PERMITTED.
   (a)   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle upon any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking knowing the operator does not have a valid driver’s license issued
to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a Deputy Registrar under
Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver’s license issued under Ohio
R.C. Chapter 4506.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall receive a driver’s license, or a motorcycle
operator’s endorsement of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card unless and until the person
surrenders to the Registrar or a deputy registrar all valid licenses, temporary
instruction permits, and identification cards issued to the person by another
jurisdiction recognized by this state.
      (2)   The Registrar shall report the cancellation of a license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card to the issuing authority, together
with information that the license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card is now issued in this state. The Registrar or a deputy
registrar shall destroy any such license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (3)   No person shall possess more than one valid license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card at any time.
         (ORC 4507.02(A))
   (c)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever
violates subsection (a) hereof is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.26; notwithstanding division
(A)(2)(a) of Ohio R.C. 2929.28, the offender may be fined up to one thousand
dollars ($1,000) and, notwithstanding division (A)(3) of Ohio R.C. 2929.27, the
offender may be ordered pursuant to division (C) of that section to serve a
term of community service of up to five hundred hours. The failure of an
offender to complete a term of community service imposed by the court may be
punished as indirect criminal contempt under division (A) of Ohio R.C. 2705.02
that may be filed in the underlying case. If, within three years of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two
or more violations of Ohio R.C. 4507.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates subsection (b) hereof is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree. (ORC 4507.02; 4507.99)
335.021 OHIO DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED FOR IN STATE RESIDENTS.
   (a)   Any person who becomes a resident of this State, within thirty days of
becoming a resident, shall surrender any driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card issued by another state to the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a Deputy Registrar. If such a person intends to
operate a motor vehicle upon the public roads or highways, the person shall
apply for a temporary instruction permit or driver’s license in this State. If
the person fails to apply for a driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit within thirty days of becoming a resident, the person shall not operate
any motor vehicle in this municipality under a license or permit issued by
another state.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (a) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   The offense established under subsection (b)(1) of this section is
a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of Ohio R.C. 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
   (c)   For purposes of subsection (a) of this section, “resident” means any
person to whom any of the following applies:
      (1)   The person maintains their principal residence in this State and
does not reside in this State as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States Armed Forces.
      (2)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to be a
resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under Ohio R.C.
4507.01. (ORC 4507.213)
335.03 DRIVING WITH TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION PERMIT; CURFEW.
   (a)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under Ohio R.C.
4507.05(A) shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
in violation of the following conditions:
      (1)   If the permit is issued to a person who is at least fifteen years
six months of age, but less than sixteen years of age:
         A.   The permit and identification card are in the holder’s immediate
possession;
         B.   The holder is accompanied by an eligible adult who actually
occupies the seat beside the permit holder and does not have a prohibited
concentration of alcohol in the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or
urine as provided in Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A);
         C.   The total number of occupants of the vehicle does not exceed the
total number of occupant restraining devices originally installed in the motor
vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the vehicle is wearing all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
      (2)   If the permit is issued to a person who is at least sixteen years
of age:
         A.   The permit and identification card are in the holder’s immediate
possession;
         B.   The holder is accompanied by a licensed operator who is at least
twenty-one years of age and is actually occupying a seat beside the driver and
does not have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine as provided in Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A);
         C.   The total number of occupants of the vehicle does not exceed the
total number of occupant restraining devices originally installed in the motor
vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the vehicle is wearing all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
   (b)   Except as provided in subsection (b) hereof, no holder of a temporary
instruction permit that is issued under Ohio R.C. 4507.05(A) and that is issued
on or after July 1, 1998, and who has not attained the age of eighteen years,
shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property
used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking between the
hours of midnight and six a.m.
   The holder of a permit issued under Ohio R.C. 4507.05(A) on or after July 1,
1998, who has not attained the age of eighteen years, may operate a motor
vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and six
a.m. if, at the time of such operation, the holder is accompanied by the
holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian, and the parent, guardian or custodian
holds a current valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this
State and is actually occupying a seat beside the permit holder, and does not
have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine as provided in Section
333.01(a).
   (c)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Eligible adult” means any of the following:
         A.   An instructor of a driver education course approved by the
Department of Education or a driver training course approved by the Department
of Public Safety;
         B.   Any of the following persons who holds a current valid driver’s
or commercial driver’s license issued by this State:
            1.   A parent, guardian or custodian of the permit holder;
            2.   A person twenty-one years of age or older who acts in loco
parentis of the permit holder.
      (2)   “Occupant restraining device” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
4513.263.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4507.05)
335.031 DRIVING WITH PROBATIONARY LICENSE; CURFEW.
   (a)   (1)   A.   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held
the license for less than twelve months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and six a.m. unless
the holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
         B.   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for twelve months or longer shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking between the hours of one a.m. and five a.m. unless
the holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
      (2)   A.   Subject to subsection (c)(1) of this section, subsection (a)
(1)A. of this section does not apply to the holder of a probationary driver’s
license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of midnight and
six a.m. provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of midnight and six a.m., provided
that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of midnight and six a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
         B.   Subsection (a)(1)B. of this section does not apply to the holder
of a probationary driver’s license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of one a.m. and
five a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of one a.m. and five a.m., provided
that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of one a.m. and five a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
      (3)   An employer, school official or official affiliated with a
religious event is not liable in damages in a civil action for any injury,
death or loss to person or property that allegedly arises from, or is related
to, the fact that the employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event provided the holder of a probationary driver’s license with the
written documentation described in subsection (a)(2) of this section.
The Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall make available at no cost a form to serve
as the written documentation described in subsection (a)(2) of this section,
and employers, school officials, officials affiliated with religious events,
and holders of probationary driver’s licenses may utilize that form or may
choose to utilize any other written documentation to meet the requirements of
that subsection.
      (4)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for less than twelve months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking with more than one person who is not a family
member occupying the vehicle unless the probationary license holder is
accompanied by the probationary license holder’s parent, guardian or custodian.
   (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of subsection (a)(1)A. or
B. of this section if, at the time of the violation, an emergency existed that
required the holder of the probationary driver’s license to operate a motor
vehicle in violation of subsection (a)(1)A. or B. of this section; or the
holder was an emancipated minor.
   (c)   (1)   If a person is issued a probationary driver’s license prior to
attaining the age of seventeen years and the person pleads guilty to, is
convicted of, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a moving
violation during the six-month period commencing on the date on which the
person is issued the probationary driver’s license, the court with jurisdiction
over the violation may order that the holder must be accompanied by the
holder’s parent or guardian whenever the holder is operating a motor vehicle
upon a highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking for a period not to exceed six months
or the date the holder attains the age of seventeen years, whichever occurs
first.
      (2)   Any person who is subject to the operating restrictions established
under subsection (c)(1) of this section as a result of a first moving violation
may petition the court for driving privileges without being accompanied by the
holder’s parent or guardian during the period of time determined by the court
under that subsection. In granting the driving privileges, the court shall
specify the purposes of the privileges and shall issue the person appropriate
forms setting forth the privileges granted. If a person is convicted of, pleads
guilty to, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a second or
subsequent moving violation, the court with jurisdiction over the violation may
terminate any driving privileges previously granted under this division.
      (3)   No person shall violate any operating restriction imposed under
subsection (c)(1) or (2) of this section.
   (d)   No holder of a probationary license shall operate a motor vehicle upon
a highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking unless the total number of occupants of the vehicle
does not exceed the total number of occupant restraining devices originally
installed in the motor vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the
vehicle is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted
occupant restraining device.
   (e)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by subsection (d) hereof, or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket,
citation, or summons if the requirement in that subsection has been or is being
violated, or for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person
for a violation of that requirement.
   (f)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of subsection (a)(1)A. or B. hereof has been or
is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for such a violation or for causing the arrest of or commencing a
prosecution of a person for such violation.
   (g)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Occupant restraining device” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
4513.263.
      (2)   “Family member” of a probationary license holder includes any of
the following:
         A.   A spouse;
         B.   A child or stepchild;
         C.   A parent, stepparent, grandparent, or parent-in-law;
         D.   An aunt or uncle;
         E.   A sibling, whether or the whole or half blood or by adoption, a
brother-in-law or a sister-in-law;
         F.   A son or daughter of the probationary license holder’s stepparent
if the stepparent has not adopted the probationary license holder;
         G.   An eligible adult, as defined in Ohio R.C. 4507.05.
      (3)   “Moving violation” means any violation of any statute or ordinance
that regulates the operation of vehicles, streetcars, or trackless trolleys on
the highways or streets. “Moving violation” does not include a violation of
Ohio R.C. 4513.263 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a
violation of any statute or ordinance regulating pedestrians or the parking of
vehicles, vehicle size or load limitations, vehicle fitness requirements, or
vehicle registration.
   (h)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. (ORC
4507.071)
335.032 USE OF ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICE PROHIBITED WHILE
DRIVING.
   (a)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the
age of eighteen years and no holder of a probationary driver’s license shall
drive a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property used by the public
for purposes of vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (b)   Subsection (a) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or other similar
emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and the motor vehicle is outside a
lane of travel;
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (c)   (1)   Except as provided in subsection (c)(2) of this section, whoever
violates subsection (a) of this section shall be fined one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00). In addition, the court shall impose a class seven suspension
of the offender’s driver’s license or permit for a definite period of sixty
days.
      (2)   If the person previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or
a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section, whoever violates
this section shall be fined three hundred dollars ($300.00). In addition, the
court shall impose a class seven suspension of the person’s driver’s license or
permit for a definite period of one year.
   (d)   The filing of a sworn complaint against a person for a violation of
Ohio R.C. 4511.205 does not preclude the filing of a sworn complaint for a
violation of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for the same
conduct. However, if a person is adjudicated a delinquent child or a juvenile
traffic offender for a violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.205 and is also adjudicated
a delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for the same conduct, the two
offenses are allied offenses of similar import under Ohio R.C. 2941.25.
   (e)   As used in this section, “electronic wireless communications device”
includes any of the following:
      (1)   A wireless telephone;
      (2)   A personal digital assistant;
      (3)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
      (4)   A text-messaging device;
      (5)   Any other substantially similar electronic wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate via voice, image, or written word.
         (ORC 4511.205)
335.04 CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display, or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver's or commercial driver's license, temporary
instruction permit or commercial driver's license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended or
altered;
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver's or commercial
driver's license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver's license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
      (3)   Display or represent as one's own, any identification card,
driver's or commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit or
commercial driver's license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver's or commercial driver's
license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver's license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled;
      (5)   In any application for an identification card, driver's or
commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit or commercial
driver's license temporary instruction permit, or any renewal, reprint, or
duplicate thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact, or present any statement
required under Ohio R.C. 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to be false
or fictitious.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (ORC 4507.30)
335.05 WRONGFUL ENTRUSTMENT OF A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges.
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under Ohio R.C. Chapter
4510, or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or this Traffic Code.
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in Ohio R.C. Chapter 4509.
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate Ohio R.C. 4511.19 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under Ohio R.C.
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (b)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of subsection (a)(1), (2), (3), (4) or (5)
of this section has occurred, it shall be prima-facie evidence that the
offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the
motor vehicle owned by the offender or under the offender’s control is in a
category described in subsection (a)(1), (2), (3), (4) or (5) of this section
if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
subsection (a)(1), (3) or (5) of this section, the offender and the operator of
the motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by consanguinity
or affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
subsection (a)(2) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any
violation of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that
would or could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s
license, permit or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
subsection (a)(4) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle and shall be punished as provided in subsections (c) to (h) of
this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in subsection (c)(2) of this section, whoever
violates subsection (a)(1), (2) or (3) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the
offender shall be sentenced pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.21 to 2929.28, except
that the offender shall not be sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not
be sentenced to a community residential sanction pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.26;
notwithstanding division (A)(2)(a) of Ohio R.C. 2929.28, the offender may be
fined up to one thousand dollars ($1,000); and, notwithstanding division (A)(3)
of Ohio R.C. 2929.27, the offender may be ordered pursuant to division (C) of
that section to serve a term of community service of up to five hundred hours.
The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service imposed by
the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under division (A) of
Ohio R.C. 2705.02.
      (2)   A.   If, within three years of a violation of subsection (a)(1),
(2) or (3) of this section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or
been convicted of two or more violations of division (A)(1), (2) or (3) of Ohio
R.C. 4511.203 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   Whoever violates subsection (a)(4) or (5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under Section
303.99 , the court may impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in division (A)(7) of Ohio R.C. 4510.02, and, if the vehicle involved
in the offense is registered in the name of the offender, the court may order
one of the following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c)(3)B. or C. of this
section, the court may order, for thirty days, the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license
plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under Ohio R.C.
4503.233.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.203 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the court may order, for sixty days, the immobilization of
the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s
license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under Ohio
R.C. 4503.233.
         C.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of Ohio R.C. 4511.203 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal forfeiture to
the state of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the order shall be
issued and enforced under Ohio R.C. 4503.234.
If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture
under this subsection is assigned or transferred and division (B)(2) or (3) of
Ohio R.C. 4503.234 applies, in addition to or independent of any other penalty
established by law, the court may fine the offender the value of the vehicle as
determined by
publications of the national automobile dealer’s association. The proceeds from
any fine imposed under this subsection shall be distributed in accordance with
division (C)(2) of Ohio R.C. 4503.234.
   (d)   If a court orders the immobilization of a vehicle under subsection (c)
of this section, the court shall not release the vehicle from the
immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization ordered
unless the court is presented with current proof of financial responsibility
with respect to that vehicle.
   (e)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under
subsection (c) of this section, upon receipt of the order from the court,
neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor any deputy registrar shall accept
any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of denial
shall be five years after the date the order is issued, unless, during that
five-year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in
the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar of the
termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar,
the Registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person to
register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (f)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in Ohio R.C. 4549.65.
   (g)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to, or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section or a substantially similar
municipal ordinance shall not be admissible as evidence in any civil action
that involves the offender or delinquent child who is the subject of the
conviction, plea, or adjudication and that arises from the wrongful entrustment
of a motor vehicle.
   (h)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name.
(ORC 4511.203)
335.06 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (a)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator’s driver’s
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver’s
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made and the operator has the operator’s driver’s license on or about
the operator’s person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person’s failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 when the person does not have the person’s license
on or about the person’s person shall be prima- facie evidence of the person’s
not having obtained a driver’s license.
   (b)   (1)   Except as provided in subsection (b)(2) hereof, whoever violates
this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an
unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to Ohio R.C.
2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be sentenced to a jail
term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community residential sanction
pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.26; notwithstanding division (A)(2)(a) of Ohio R.C.
2929.28, the offender may be fined up to one thousand dollars ($1,000); and,
notwithstanding division (A)(3) of Ohio R.C. 2929.27, the offender may be
ordered pursuant to division (C) of that section to serve a term of community
service of up to five hundred hours. The failure of an offender to complete a
term of community service imposed by the court may be punished as indirect
criminal contempt under division (A) of Ohio R.C. 2705.02 that may be filed in
the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of Ohio R.C.
4507.35 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. (ORC 4507.35)
335.07 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (a)   Except as provided under subsection (b) hereof and Sections
335.072 and
335.074, no person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under any provision of the
Ohio Revised Code, other than Ohio R.C. Chapter 4509, or under any applicable
law in any other jurisdiction in which the person’s license or permit was
issued shall operate any motor vehicle upon the public roads and highways or
upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking within this Municipality during the period of
suspension unless the person is granted limited driving privileges and is
operating the vehicle in accordance with the terms of the limited driving
privileges.
   (b)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this Municipality in violation of any restriction of the person’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit imposed under division (D) of
Ohio R.C. 4506.10 or under Ohio R.C. 4507.14.
   (c)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of subsection (a) or (b) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima-facie evidence that the license of the person was under
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of subsection (a) of this
section or the person operated a motor vehicle in violation of a restriction at
the time of the alleged violation of subsection (b) of this section. The person
charged with a violation of subsection (a) or (b) of this section may offer
evidence to rebut this prima-facie evidence.
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (a) or (b) hereof, is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the offender a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in division (A)(7) of Ohio R.C.
4510.02.
      (2)   A.   Except as provided in subsection (d)(2)B. or C. of this
section, the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on the
offender and if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if, within
three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one violation of Ohio R.C. 4510.11 or Ohio R.C. 4510.111 or
4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon the
offender, may order the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense
for thirty days and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates for thirty
days in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4503.233.
         B.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two violations of Ohio R.C. 4510.11 or any combination
of two violations of Ohio R.C. 4510.11 or Ohio R.C. 4510.111 or 4510.16, or of
a substantially similar municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any
other sentence that it imposes on the offender may order the immobilization of
the vehicle involved in the offense for sixty days and the impoundment of that
vehicle’s license plates for sixty days in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4503.233.
         C.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of Ohio R.C. 4510.11, or any
combination of three or more violations of Ohio R.C. 4501.11 or Ohio R.C.
4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a substantially similar municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to any other sentence that it imposes on the offender may
order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense to the
State.
   (e)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section shall
be issued and enforced under Ohio R.C. 4503.233 and 4507.02, as applicable. The
court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this
section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (f)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under Ohio R.C. 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order
from the court, neither the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a deputy
registrar shall accept any application for the registration or transfer of
registration of any motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the
declaration of forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five
years after the date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having
jurisdiction of the offense that lead to the order terminates the forfeiture
and notifies the Registrar of the termination. The Registrar shall then take
necessary measures to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased
by the person or to transfer registration of the vehicle.
   (g)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in Ohio R.C. 4509.01. If the offender fails to
provide that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to Ohio
R.C. 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) for any
economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this
section. (ORC 4510.11)
   (h)   Any person whose driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or
nonresident operating privileges are suspended as a repeat traffic offender
under this section and who, during the suspension, operates any motor vehicle
upon any public roads and highways is guilty of driving under a twelve-point
suspension, a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the
offender to a minimum term of three days in jail. No court shall suspend the
first three days of jail time imposed pursuant to this subsection. (ORC
4510.037)
   (i)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(ORC 4510.04)
335.071 DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION.
   (a)   No person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under Ohio R.C. 4511.19,
4511.191, or 4511.196 or under Ohio R.C. 4510.07 for a conviction of a
violation of a municipal OVI ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the
public roads or highways within this Municipality during the period of the
suspension.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under OVI
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (b)(2) or (3) of this
section, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The
court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         A.   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to subsection (c) of this section, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than thirty consecutive days of
house arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with
electronic monitoring imposed under this subsection shall not exceed six
months. If the court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this
subsection, the court may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided
that in no case shall the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed
six months.
         B.   A fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and
not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000).
         C.   A license suspension under subsection (e) of this section.
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         A.   A mandatory jail term of ten consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may sentence the
offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The ten-day mandatory
jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to subsection (c) of this section,
the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than ninety consecutive days
of house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of house arrest with
electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year.
         B.   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929,
a fine of not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and not more than two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500).
         C.   A license suspension under subsection (e) of this section.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under OVI suspension is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all
of the following:
         A.   A mandatory jail term of thirty consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may sentence the
offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The court shall not
sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring in
lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term.
         B.   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and not more than two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500).
         C.   A license suspension under subsection (e) of this section.
   (c)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest with
electronic monitoring under subsection (b)(1) or (2) of this section unless,
within sixty days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written finding
on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail where the
offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender will not be
able to begin serving that term within the sixty-day period following the date
of sentencing.
   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house arrest with
electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that period.
   (d)   Fifty per cent of any fine imposed by a court under subsection (b)(1),
(2) or (3) of this section shall be deposited into the county indigent drivers
alcohol treatment fund or municipal indigent drivers alcohol treatment fund
under the control of that court, as created by the county or municipal
corporation pursuant to division (H) of Ohio R.C. 4511.191.
   (e)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law
or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the mayor of a mayor’s
court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in division (A)(7) of Ohio R.C. 4510.02.
   When permitted as specified in Ohio R.C. 4510.021, if the court grants
limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the
privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the offender must
display restricted license plates, issued under Ohio R.C. 4503.231, on the
vehicle driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in division (B) of
that section.
   A suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section shall be
concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under Ohio R.C.
3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding a
commercial driver’s license under Ohio R.C. 4506.16 shall be issued a driver’s
license under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver’s license under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the
suspension.
   (f)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in Ohio R.C. 4509.01. If the offender fails to
provide that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to Ohio
R.C. 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) for any
economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under
this section for which the offender is sentenced. (ORC 4510.14)
   (g)   (1)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to Ohio R.C. 4510.14, the
court, in addition to and independent of any sentence that it imposes upon the
offender for the offense, if the vehicle the offender was operating at the time
of the offense is registered in the offender’s name, shall do whichever of the
following is applicable:
         A.   If, within six years of the current offense, the offender has not
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of Ohio R.C. 4510.14 or
former division (D)(2) of Ohio R.C. 4507.02, or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that section or former division, the court shall
order the immobilization for thirty days of the vehicle involved in the offense
and the impoundment for thirty days of the license plates of that vehicle in
accordance with Ohio R.C. 4503.233.
         B.   If, within six years of the current offense, the offender has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of Ohio R.C. 4510.14 or
former division (D)(2) of Ohio R.C. 4507.02, or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that section or former division, the court shall
order the immobilization for sixty days of the vehicle involved in the offense
and the impoundment for sixty days of the license plates of that vehicle in
accordance with Ohio R.C. 4503.233.
         C.   If, within six years of the current offense, the offender has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of Ohio R.C.
4510.14 or former division (D)(2) of Ohio R.C. 4507.02 or a municipal ordinance
that is substantially equivalent to that section or former division, the court
shall order the criminal forfeiture to the State of the vehicle the offender
was operating at the time of the offense.
      (2)   An order for immobilization and impoundment of a vehicle under this
section shall be issued and enforced in accordance with Ohio R.C 4503.233 and
4507.02, as applicable. The court shall not release a vehicle from
immobilization ordered under this section unless the court is presented with
current proof of financial responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
      (3)   An order for criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under this section
shall be issued and enforced under Ohio R.C. 4503.234. Upon receipt of a copy
of the order from the court, neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a
Deputy Registrar shall accept any application for the registration or transfer
of registration of any motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the
declaration of forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five
years after the date of the order unless, during that period, the court having
jurisdiction of the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and
notifies the Registrar of the termination. The Registrar then shall take the
necessary measures to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased
by the person or to transfer registration of the vehicle.
         (ORC 4510.161)
   (h)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Electronic monitoring” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
2929.01.
      (2)   “Equivalent offense” means any of the following:
         A.   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state, or
law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to subsection (a) of
this section;
         B.   A violation of a former law of this State that was substantially
equivalent to subsection (a) of this section.
      (3)   “Jail” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2929.01.
      (4)   “Mandatory jail term” means the mandatory term in jail of three,
ten, or thirty consecutive days that must be imposed under subsection (b)(1),
(2) or (3) of this section upon an offender convicted of a violation of
subsection (a) of this section and in relation to which all of the following
apply:
         A.   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail.
         B.   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision
of the Ohio Revised Code.
            (ORC 4510.14)
   (i)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency. (ORC 4510.04)
335.072 DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR CANCELLATION;
DRIVING UNDER A NONPAYMENT OF JUDGMENT SUSPENSION.
   (a)    No person, whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle
within this municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the
person to be operated by another person in the municipality, during the period
of the suspension or cancellation, except as specifically authorized by Ohio
R.C. Chapter 4509.
   (b)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this Municipality if the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or temporary instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a
judgment.
   (c)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of subsection (a) or (b) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima-facie evidence that the license of the person was under
either a financial responsibility law suspension at the time of the alleged
violation of subsection (a) of this section or a nonpayment of judgment
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of subsection (b) of this
section. The person charged with a violation of subsection (a) or (b) of this
section may offer evidence to rebut this prima-facie evidence.
   (d)   Whoever violates subsection (a) of this section is guilty of driving
under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall be
punished as provided in subsection (d)(1) to (d)(3) hereof. Whoever violates
subsection (b) of this section is guilty of driving under a nonpayment of
judgment suspension and shall be punished as provided in subsection (d)(1) to
(d)(3) hereof.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d)(2) of this section,
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified
misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.21 to
2929.28, except that the offender shall not be sentenced to a jail term; the
offender shall not be sentenced to a community residential sanction pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 2929.26; notwithstanding division (A)(2)(a) of Ohio R.C. 2929.28, the
offender may be fined up to one thousand dollars ($1,000); and, notwithstanding
division (A)(3) of Ohio R.C. 2929.27, the offender may be ordered pursuant to
division (C) of that section to serve a term of community service of up to five
hundred hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community
service imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt
under division (A) of Ohio R.C. 2705.02 that may be filed in the underlying
case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of Ohio R.C. 4510.16,
or any combination of two violations of Ohio R.C. 4510.16 or Ohio R.C. 4510.11
or 4510.111, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in Ohio R.C. 4509.01. If the offender fails to
provide that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to Ohio
R.C. 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) for any
economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during or
after committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this
section. (ORC 4510.16)
   (e)   No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of financial
responsibility in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4509.101 shall produce any document
or present to a peace officer an electronic wireless communications device that
is displaying any text or images with the purpose to mislead a peace officer
upon the request of a peace officer for proof of financial responsibility made
in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4509.101. Whoever violates this subsection (e)
hereof is guilty of falsification, a misdemeanor of the first degree. (ORC
4509.102)
   (f)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(ORC 4510.04)
335.073 DRIVING WITHOUT COMPLYING WITH LICENSE REINSTATEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   No person whose driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, or nonresident’s operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles, or another provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (b)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of subsection (a) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima- facie evidence that the license of the person had not been reinstated by
the person at the time of the alleged violation of subsection (a) hereof. The
person charged with a violation of subsection (a) hereof may offer evidence to
rebut this prima-facie evidence.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in subsection (c)(2) of this section, whoever
violates subsection (a) hereof is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.26; notwithstanding division
(A)(2)(a) of Ohio R.C. 2929.28, the offender may be fined up to one thousand
dollars ($1,000); and, notwithstanding division (A)(3) of Ohio R.C. 2929.27,
the offender may be ordered pursuant to division (C) of that section to serve a
term of community service of up to five hundred hours. The failure of an
offender to complete a term of community service imposed by the court may be
punished as indirect criminal contempt under division (A) of Ohio R.C. 2705.02
that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of subsection (a) of this
section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two
or more violations of Ohio R.C. 4510.21(A) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in division (A)(7) of Ohio R.C.
4510.02. (ORC 4510.21)
   (d)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(ORC 4510.04)
335.074 DRIVING UNDER LICENSE FORFEITURE OR CHILD SUPPORT SUSPENSION.
   (a)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this Municipality whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license has
been suspended pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2151.354, 2935.27, 3123.58, 4301.99,
4510.032, 4510.22 or 4510.33.
   (b)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of subsection (a) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima- facie evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at
the time of the alleged violation of subsection (a) of this section. The person
charged with a violation of subsection (a) of this section may offer evidence
to rebut this prima-facie evidence.
   (c)   Whoever violates subsection (a) of this section is guilty of driving
under suspension and shall be punished as provided in subsection (c) of this
section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c)(2) of this section,
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.26; notwithstanding division
(A)(2)(a) of Ohio R.C. 2929.28, the offender may be fined up to one thousand
dollars ($1,000); and, notwithstanding division (A)(3) of Ohio R.C. 2929.27,
the offender may be ordered pursuant to division (C) of that section to serve a
term of community service of up to five hundred hours. The failure of an
offender to complete a term of community service imposed by the court may be
punished as indirect criminal contempt under division (A) of Ohio R.C. 2705.02
that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of subsection (A) of
Ohio R.C. 4510.111, or any combination of two or more violations of subsection
(A) of Ohio R.C. 4510.111, or Ohio R.C. 4510.11 or 4510.16, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree and the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in Ohio R.C. 4509.01. If the offender fails to
provide that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to Ohio
R.C. 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) for any
economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during or
after committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this
section. (ORC 4510.111)
   (d)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(ORC 4510.04)
335.08 OPERATION OR SALE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this Municipality a motor vehicle for which a
certificate of title is required without having that certificate in accordance
with Ohio R.C. Chapter 4505 or, if a physical certificate of title has not been
issued for a motor vehicle, operate the motor vehicle in this Municipality
knowing that the ownership information relating to the vehicle has not been
entered into the automated title processing system by a clerk of a court of
common pleas;
      (2)   Display or display for sale or sell as a dealer or acting on behalf
of a dealer, a motor vehicle without having obtained a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate, a certificate of title, or an assignment of a
certificate of title for it as provided in Ohio R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title or any certificate of
registration or license plates upon cancellation of the same by the Registrar
of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed in Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4505;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a clerk of a court of
common pleas as provided in Ohio R.C. Chapter 4505 in case of the destruction
or dismantling or change of a motor vehicle in such respect that it is not the
motor vehicle described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any rules adopted pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in Ohio R.C. Chapter 4505 and Chapter
4517, sell at wholesale a motor vehicle the ownership of which is not evidenced
by an Ohio certificate of title, or the current certificate of title issued for
the motor vehicle, or the manufacturer’s certificate of origin, and all title
assignments that evidence the seller’s ownership of the motor vehicle, and an
odometer disclosure statement that complies with Ohio R.C. 4505.06 and
subchapter IV of the “Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act”, 86 Stat.
961 (1972), 15 U.S.C. 1981;
      (7)   Operate in this Municipality a motor vehicle knowing that the
certificate of title to the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle as otherwise
reflected in the automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (b)   This section does not apply to persons engaged in the business of
warehousing or transporting motor vehicles for the purpose of salvage
disposition.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than two hundred
dollars ($200.00) or imprisoned not more than ninety days, or both. (ORC
4505.18)
335.09 DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES OR VALIDATION STICKERS; REGISTRATION.
   (a)   (1)   Subject to Ohio R.C. 4503.211, no person who is the owner or
operator of a motor vehicle shall fail to display in plain view on the rear of
the motor vehicle a license plate that displays the distinctive number and
registration mark assigned to the motor vehicle by the Ohio Director of Public
Safety, including any county identification sticker and any validation sticker
when required by and issued under Ohio R.C. 4503.19 and 4503.191. However a
commercial tractor shall display the license plate on the front of the
commercial tractor.
      (2)   The license plate shall be securely fastened so as not to swing,
and shall not be covered by any material that obstructs its visibility.
      (3)   Subject to Ohio R.C. 4503.211, no person to whom a temporary motor
vehicle license registration has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle
under Ohio R.C. 4503.182, and no operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to
display the temporary motor vehicle license registration in plain view from the
rear of the vehicle either in the rear window or on an external rear surface of
the motor vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall cover a temporary motor vehicle license
registration by any material that obstructs its visibility.
         (ORC 4503.21(A))
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (a) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   The offenses established under subsection (a) of this section are
strict liability offenses and Ohio R.C. 2901.20 does not apply. The designation
of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
is not a strict liability offense.
         (ORC 4503.21(B), (C))
335.091 OPERATING WITHOUT DEALER OR MANUFACTURER LICENSE PLATES.
   (a)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon a public road or
highway a motor vehicle of a manufacturer or dealer unless the vehicle carries
and displays a placard, except as provided in Ohio R.C. 4503.21, issued by the
Director of Public Safety that displays the registration number of its
manufacturer or dealer.
   (b)   Whoever violates subsection (a) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation of a manufacturer’s or dealer’s motor vehicle, a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4549.10)
335.10 EXPIRED OR UNLAWFUL LICENSE PLATES.
   (a)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle which is parked or
operated upon the public streets or highways shall fail to annually file the
application for registration or to pay the tax therefor, as required by Ohio
R.C. Chapter 4503. (ORC 4503.11)
   (b)   No person shall operate, drive or park upon the public streets or
highways a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered the
motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration. (ORC
4549.11)
   (c)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of Ohio
shall operate, drive or park the motor vehicle upon the public streets or
highways, while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark issued
by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the laws of
Ohio relating to the registration and identification of motor vehicles.
(ORC 4549.12)
   (d)   No person shall park or operate any vehicle upon any public street or
highway upon which is displayed an expired license plate or an expired
validation sticker.
   (e)   No person shall park or operate any vehicle upon any public street or
highway upon which are displayed any license plates not legally registered and
issued for such vehicle, or upon which are displayed any license plates that
were issued on an application for registration that contains any false
statement by the applicant.
   (f)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (a) hereof is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever violates subsection (b) hereof is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on each
subsequent offense.
      (3)   Whoever violates any provision of this section for which no other
penalty is provided is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
         (ORC 4549.11; 4549.12)
335.11 USE OF ILLEGAL LICENSE PLATES; TRANSFER OF REGISTRATION.
   (a)    No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the streets in
this Municipality if it displays a license plate or a distinctive number or
identification mark that meets any of the following criteria:
      (1)   Is fictitious;
      (2)   Is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark;
      (3)   Belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section does
not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the streets in this
Municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates that originally
were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by the same person
who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the streets in this
Municipality, during the thirty-day period described in subsection (c) hereof.
   (b)   Whoever violates subsection (a)(1), (2) or (3) of this section is
guilty of operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or
identification mark, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and
a misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(ORC 4549.08)
   (c)   Upon the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle, the registration of
the motor vehicle expires, and the original owner shall immediately remove the
license plates from the motor vehicle. The transfer of the registration and,
where applicable, the license plates from the motor vehicle for which they
originally were issued to a succeeding motor vehicle purchased by the same
person in whose name the original registration and license plates were issued
shall be done within a period not to exceed thirty days. During that thirty-day
period, the license plates from the motor vehicle for which they originally
were issued may be displayed on the succeeding motor vehicle, and the
succeeding motor vehicle may be operated on the streets of the Municipality.
   (d)   Whoever violates subsection (c) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. (ORC 4503.12)
335.111 REGISTRATION WITHIN THIRTY DAYS OF RESIDENCY.
   (a)   Within thirty days of becoming a resident of this State, any person
who owns a motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways
shall register the vehicle in this State. If such a person fails to register a
vehicle owned by the person, the person shall not operate any motor vehicle in
this Municipality under a license issued by another state.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (a) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   The offense established under subsection (b)(1) of this section is
a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of Ohio R.C. 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
   (c)   For purposes of subsection (a) of this section, “resident” means any
person to whom any of the following applies:
      (1)   The person maintains their principal residence in this State and
does not reside in this State as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States Armed Forces.
      (2)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to be a
resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under Ohio R.C.
4507.01. (ORC 4503.111)
335.12 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT UPON STREETS; COLLISION WITH UNATTENDED VEHICLE.
   (a)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision with
persons or property on a public road or highway, the operator of the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the operator’s motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or collision. The
operator shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
operator has given the operator’s name and address and, if the operator is not
the owner, the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together
with the registered number of that motor vehicle, to all of the following:
         A.   Any person injured in the accident or collision;
         B.   The operator, occupant, owner or attendant of any motor vehicle
damaged in the accident or collision;
         C.   The police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event an injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given under subsection (a)(1) of this section,
the other operator involved in the accident or collision shall notify the
nearest police authority concerning the location of the accident or collision,
and the operator’s name, address and the registered number of the motor vehicle
the operator was operating. The operator shall remain at the scene of the
accident or collision until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the
scene by an emergency vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an
ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (a) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident. Except as otherwise provided in subsection
(b)(2) or (3) of this section, failure to stop after an accident is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after an accident is a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate State law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate State law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in division (A)(5) of Ohio R.C. 4510.02. No judge shall suspend the
first six months of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege
required by this subsection.
   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial responsibility
as defined in Ohio R.C. 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide that proof of
financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other penalties provided by
law, the court may order restitution pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.18 or 2929.28
in an amount not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during or after
committing the offense charged under this section. (ORC 4549.02)
335.13 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT UPON PROPERTY OTHER THAN STREET.
   (a)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision resulting
in injury or damage to persons or property on any public or private property
other than a public road or highway, the operator of the motor vehicle, having
knowledge of the accident or collision, shall stop at the scene of the accident
or collision. Upon request of any person who is injured or damaged, or any
other person, the operator shall give that person the operator’s name and
address, and, if the operator is not the owner, the name and address of the
owner of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the operator’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license.
      (2)   If the operator of the motor vehicle involved in the accident or
collision does not provide the information specified in subsection (a)(1) of
this section, the operator shall give that information, within twenty-four
hours after the accident or collision, to the Police Department.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required under subsection (a)(1) of this section, in
writing, to a conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor
vehicle.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (a) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident. Except as otherwise provided
in subsection (b)(2) or (3) of this section, failure to stop after a nonpublic
road accident is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony and shall
be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony and shall be
prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in division (A)(5) of Ohio R.C. 4510.02. No judge shall suspend the
first six months of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege
required by this subsection.
   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial responsibility
as defined in Ohio R.C. 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide that proof of
financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other penalties provided by
law, the court may order restitution pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.18 or 2929.28
in an amount not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during or after
committing the offense charged under this section. (ORC 4549.021)
335.14 VEHICLE ACCIDENT RESULTING IN DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (a)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in damage
to real property, or personal property attached to real property, legally upon
or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and take
reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address, and of the
registration number of the vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and
if available, shall exhibit the driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located after
reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident resulting
in damage to the property, within twenty-four hours after the accident, shall
forward to the police authority in the municipality in which the accident or
collision occurred, the same information required to be given to the owner or
person in control of the property and give the location of the accident and a
description of the damage insofar as it is known.
   (b)   Whoever violates subsection (a) of this section is guilty of failure
to stop after an accident involving the property of others, a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial responsibility
as defined in Ohio R.C. 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide that proof of
financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other penalties provided by
law, the court may order restitution pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.28 in an amount
not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) for any economic loss arising from
an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the
offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during or after committing
the offense charged under this section. (ORC 4549.03)
CHAPTER 337
Safety and Equipment
337.01   Driving unsafe vehicles.
337.02   Lighted lights; measurement of distances and heights.
337.03   Headlights on motor vehicles and motorcycles.
337.04   Tail light; illumination of rear license plate.
337.05   Rear red reflectors.
337.06   Safety lighting on commercial vehicles.
337.07   Obscured lights on vehicles in combination.
337.08   Red light or red flag on extended loads.
337.09   Lights on parked or stopped vehicles.
337.10   Lights, emblems, and reflectors on slow-moving vehicles, farm
machinery, agricultural tractors, and animal-drawn vehicles.
337.11   Spotlight and auxiliary lights.
337.12   Cowl, fender and back-up lights.
337.13   Display of lighted lights.
337.14   Use of headlight beams.
337.15   Lights of less intensity on slow-moving vehicles.
337.16   Number of lights; limitations on flashing, oscillating or rotating
lights.
337.17   Focus and aim of headlights.
337.171   Lights on snow removal equipment and oversize vehicles.
337.172   Lights and signs on vehicle transporting preschool children to and
from institution.
337.18   Motor vehicle and motorcycle brakes.
337.19   Horn, siren and theft alarm signal.
337.20   Muffler; muffler cutout; excessive smoke, gas or noise.
337.21   Rear-view mirror; clear view to front, both sides and rear.
337.22   Windshield and windshield wiper; sign or poster thereon.
337.23   Limited load extension on left side of passenger vehicle.
337.24   Motor vehicle stop lights.
337.25   Air cleaner required.
337.26   Child restraint system usage.
337.27   Certain radio receiving sets prohibited.
337.28   Use of sunscreening, nontransparent and reflectorized materials.
337.29   Bumper heights.
337.30   Inspection by police officer.
337.31   Directional signals required.
337.32   Lights and sign on transportation for preschool children.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
   See sectional histories for similar State law
   Warning devices for commercial vehicles disabled upon freeways - see Ohio
R.C. 4513.28
   Slow moving vehicle emblem - see OAC Ch. 4501.13
   Motorized bicycle lights and equipment - see Ohio R.C. 4511.521
   Vehicle lighting - see OAC 4501-15
   Use of stop and turn signals - see TRAF.
331.14
   Wheel protectors for commercial vehicles - see TRAF.
 339.05
   Vehicles transporting explosives - see TRAF.
339.06
   Towing requirements - see TRAF.
339.07
   Use of studded tires and chains - see TRAF.
339.11
   Bicycle equipment - see TRAF.
373.05 et seq.
 
 
337.01 DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES.
   (a)   No person shall drive or move, or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on any street any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person or property.
   (b)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the
use of additional parts and accessories on any vehicle not inconsistent with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (c)   The provisions of this chapter with respect to equipment on vehicles
do not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road rollers or
agricultural tractors except as made applicable to such articles of machinery.
(ORC 4513.02)
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
337.02 LIGHTED LIGHTS; MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCES AND HEIGHTS.
   (a)   Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a street
or highway shall display lighted lights and illuminating devices as required by
this chapter during all of the following times:
      (1)   The time from sunset to sunrise;
      (2)   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles, and substantial objects
on the street or highway are not discernible at a distance of one thousand feet
ahead;
      (3)   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
   Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights meeting
the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under Ohio R.C.
4511.521. No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this section, shall be
operated upon a street or highway using only parking lights as illumination.
   (b)   Whenever in this chapter a requirement is declared as to the distance
from which certain lights and devices shall render objects visible, or within
which such lights or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be measured
upon a straight level unlighted street under normal atmospheric conditions
unless a different condition is expressly stated.
   (c)   Whenever in this chapter a requirement is declared as to the mounted
height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such light or
device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (d)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway to stop the vehicle solely because the officer observes that
a violation of subsection (a)(3) of this section has been or is being committed
or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation or summons for a
violation of that subsection, or causing the arrest of or commencing a
prosecution of a person for a violation of that subsection.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.03)
337.03 HEADLIGHTS ON MOTOR VEHICLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
   (a)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped with
at least two headlights with at least one near each side of the front of the
motor vehicle.
   (b)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more than
two headlights.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.04)
337.04 TAIL LIGHT; ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (a)    Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or vehicle
which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be equipped with
at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted, shall emit a
red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear, provided that in the
case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the rear-most vehicle need
be visible from the distance specified.
   (b)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
such registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of
fifty feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating such registration plate.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.05)
337.05 REAR RED REFLECTORS.
   (a)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and operated on
a street, other than vehicles of the type mentioned in Section
337.06 or a commercial tractor to which a trailer or semitrailer is attached,
shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the tail lights or separately, two
red reflectors of such size and characteristics and so maintained as to be
visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to fifty feet from such
vehicle.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.06)
337.06 SAFETY LIGHTING ON COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (a)   Buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers and pole
trailers, when operated upon any street, shall be equipped with clearance
lights, marker lights, reflectors and stop lights as required by State
regulations. Such equipment shall be lighted at all times mentioned in Section
337.02 except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be lighted
on a vehicle operated where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object on the street at a distance of 500 feet.
   Such equipment shall be in addition to all other lights specifically
required by Section
337.02 to Section
337.15, inclusive. Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Ohio Public
Utilities Commission are not subject to this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.07)
337.07 OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES IN COMBINATION.
   (a)   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during
the time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by
reason of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by
another vehicle of the combination need not be lighted, but this section does
not affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the
front of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all
lights required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4513.08)
337.08 RED LIGHT OR RED FLAG ON EXTENDED LOADS.
   (a)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of such vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in Section
337.02, a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the side and rear. The red light or lantern required by this section is
in addition to the red rear light required upon every vehicle. At any other
time there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of such load a red flag
or cloth not less than sixteen inches square.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.09)
337.09 LIGHTS ON PARKED OR STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (a)   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or
stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or shoulder adjacent thereto, whether
attended or unattended during the times mentioned in Section
337.02, such vehicle shall be equipped with one or more lights which shall
exhibit a white or amber light on the roadway side visible from a distance of
500 feet to the front of such vehicle, and a red light visible from a distance
of 500 feet to the rear. No lights need be displayed upon any such vehicle when
it is stopped or parked where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon such street. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
(ORC 4513.10)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
337.10 LIGHTS, EMBLEMS AND REFLECTORS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES, FARM MACHINERY,
AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS, AND ANIMAL- DRAWN VEHICLES.
   (a)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   BOAT TRAILER. Means any vehicle designed and used exclusively to
transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina, or in and around a
marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a distance of no more
than ten miles and at a speed of twenty-five miles per hour or less.
      (2)   SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE and SMV. Mean a boat trailer, unit of farm
machinery, road construction machinery, or other machinery designed by the
manufacturer to operate at a speed of twenty-five miles per hour or less. The
term does not include a bicycle, motorized bicycle, electric bicycle, or
animal-drawn vehicle. (ORC 4513.11)
   (b)   Generally.
      (1)   At the times specified in Ohio R.C. 4513.03, no person shall
operate either of the following vehicles unless it is equipped with and
displays the lamps described in subsection (b)(2) of this section.
         A.   A vehicle not specifically required to be equipped with lamps or
other lighting devices by Ohio R.C. 4513.03 to 4513.10;
         B.   A vehicle referred to in Ohio R.C. 4513.02(G).
      (2)   Vehicles described in subsection (b)(1) of this section shall be
equipped with both of the following:
         A.   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle;
         B.   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an alternative, one lamp
displaying a red light visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to
the rear and two red reflectors visible from all distances of 600 feet to 100
feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (3)   A.   At the times specified in Ohio R.C. 4513.03, no person shall
operate a multi-wheel agricultural tractor model year 2001 or earlier on a
street or highway unless it is equipped with and displays reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by all of the following:
            1.   Flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the front
and the rear. The lamps need not flash simultaneously and need not flash in
conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor;
            2.   Amber reflectors, all visible to the front;
            3.   Red reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         B.   Rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under Ohio
R.C. 4513.111 governing the lamps and reflectors described in subsection (b)
(3)A. of this section and their placement correlate with and, as far as
possible, conform with paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1 and 4.1.7.2 respectively of
the American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10
OCT98, Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
      (4)   At the times specified in Ohio R.C. 4513.03, no person shall
operate a unit of farm machinery model year 2002 or later on a street or
highway unless it is equipped with and displays markings and illuminated lamps
that meet or exceed the lighting, illumination and marking standards and
specifications that are applicable to that type of farm machinery for the
unit’s model year specified in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers
Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT 98, lighting and marking of agricultural
equipment on highways.
      (5)   Any unit of farm machinery designed by its manufacturer to operate
at a speed of twenty-five miles per hour or greater or any SMV may be equipped
with and display a red flashing light that is visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear at all times specified in Ohio R.C. 4513.03.
When a double-faced light is used, it shall display amber light to the front
and red light to the rear.
      (6)   Lights and reflectors required under subsections (b)(3) and (b)(4)
of this section and authorized under subsection (b)(5) of this section are in
addition to other lights required or permitted by this subsection (b) or Ohio
R.C. 4513.17.
      (7)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt rules in accordance
with Ohio R.C. Chapter 119 Code that establish standards and specifications for
lamps and reflectors required or authorized by this section. Lamps and
reflectors required or authorized by this section shall meet those standards
and specifications.
      (8)   This subsection (b) does not apply to a bicycle, motorized bicycle,
electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
      (9)   Whoever violates this subsection (b) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
         (ORC 4513.111)
   (c)   Slow-Moving Vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall
operate an SMV on a street or highway as follows:
         A.   At a speed exceeding twenty-five miles per hour;
         B.   Without displaying the triangular SMV emblem mounted in
accordance with subsection (c)(2) of this section.
      (2)   The SMV emblem shall be mounted so as to be visible from a distance
of not less than 500 feet to the rear. In accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapter
119, the Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and
specifications for the design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The
standards and specifications for the SMV emblem correlate with and, so far as
possible, conform with those approved by the American Society of Agricultural
Engineers.
      (3)   A person may operate an SMV on a street or highway without
displaying the triangular SMV emblem when any of the following apply:
         A.   The SMV is being used in actual construction and maintenance work
in an area guarded by a flagperson, or where flares are used;
         B.   The SMV is operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Ohio Director of Transportation, a city
engineer, or the county engineer of the several counties, when such
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Ohio
Director of Transportation and the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices,
as set forth in Ohio R.C. 4511.09.
      (4)   No person shall display an SMV emblem on any of the following:
         A.   Any vehicle not required to use the SMV emblem by this subsection
(c) or Ohio R.C. 4513.113 or 4513.114;
         B.   An SMV being transported upon any other vehicle;
         C.   Any stationary object on the highway.
      (5)   No person shall sell, lease, rent or operate an SMV, except a unit
designed to be completely mounted on a primary power unit that is manufactured
or assembled on or after April 1, 1966, unless it is equipped with an SMV
emblem mounting device.
      (6)   Whoever violates subsection (c) is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
         (ORC 4513.112)
   (d)   Farm Machinery and Agricultural Tractors.
      (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent or operate on a street or highway
any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to operate at a
speed greater than twenty-five miles per hour unless the unit displays both of
the following:
         A.   The SMV emblem mounted in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4513.112(B);
         B.   A speed identification symbol that does both of the following:
            1.   Meets the specifications contained in the American Society of
Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment:
Speed Identification Symbol (SIS);
            2.   Indicates the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the
unit of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate;
      (2)   No person operating a tractor on a street or highway that is
designed by its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than twenty-five
miles per hour and that is towing, pulling or otherwise drawing a unit of farm
machinery while operating at a speed greater than twenty-five miles per hour
shall fail to display both of the following on the unit of farm machinery;
         A.   The SMV emblem;
         B.   The speed identification symbol that matches the speed
identification symbol required to be displayed on the agricultural tractor;
      (3)   No person shall operate an agricultural tractor that is designed by
its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than twenty-five miles per hour
unless the person possesses documentation published or provided by the
manufacturer indicating the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the
manufacturer designed the agricultural tractor to operate;
      (4)   Whoever violates this subsection (d) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
         (ORC 4513.113)
   (e)   Animal-Drawn Vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (e)(4) of this section,
no person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless
it is equipped with and displays, at the times specified in Ohio R.C. 4513.03,
both of the following:
         A.   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the animal-drawn vehicle;
         B.   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the animal-drawn vehicle, or as an
alternative, one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all
distances of 600 feet to one hundred feet to the rear when illuminated by the
lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (e)(4) of this section,
no person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless
it is equipped with and displays, at all times, all of the following:
         A.   One yellow flashing lamp displaying yellow light that is visible
from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet and that is mounted in either of
the following positions:
            1.   On the top most portion of the rear of the animal-drawn
vehicle;
            2.   On the top of the animal-drawn vehicle;
         B.   At least one of the following:
            1.   An SMV emblem mounted in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4513.112
(B);
            2.   Micro-prism reflective tape that is visible from a distance of
not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams
of headlamps;
            3.   Both an SMV emblem and micro-prism reflective tape, as
specified in this division.
         C.   Lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required by this section
shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Ohio Director of Public
Safety under Ohio R.C. 4513.114.
      (3)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety, in accordance with Ohio R.C.
Chapter 119, shall adopt rules establishing standards and specifications for
the position and mounting of the lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required
by Ohio R.C. 4513.114. The rules permit the micro-prism reflective tape to be
red, amber, white, or silver in color.
      (4)   A.   Subsections (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section do not apply to
the operator of animal-drawn agricultural equipment who is not transporting any
livestock or a person other than the operator.
         B.   No operator described in subsection (e)(4)A. of this section
shall operate animal-drawn agricultural equipment unless it is equipped with
and displays, at all times, the SMV emblem mounted in accordance with Ohio R.C.
4513.112(B).
         C.   As used in subsection (e)(4) of this section, “animal-drawn
agricultural equipment” means equipment drawn by the muscular power of an
animal that is used solely for agricultural purposes. “Animal-drawn
agricultural equipment” includes any of the following:
            1.   A plow;
            2.   A manure spreader;
            3.   A thresher.
      (5)   Whoever violates this subsection (e) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
         (ORC 4513.114)
   (f)   Strict Liability Offenses. The offenses established under this section
are strict liability offenses, and Ohio R.C. 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(ORC 4513.115)
337.11 SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY LIGHTS.
   (a)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one spotlight and
every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon approaching another
vehicle that no part of the high-intensity portion of the beam will be directed
to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle, nor
more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
   (b)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than three State
approved auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle, which
when used shall conform to State regulations.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.12)
337.12 COWL, FENDER AND BACK-UP LIGHTS.
   (a)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender lights or
lights on each side thereof which shall emit a white or amber light without
glare.
   (b)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.13)
337.13 DISPLAY OF LIGHTED LIGHTS.
   (a)   At all times mentioned in Section
337.02 at least two State approved lighted lights shall be displayed conforming
to State regulations, one near each side of the front of every motor vehicle,
except when such vehicle is parked subject to the regulations governing lights
on parked vehicles. (ORC 4513.14)
   (b)   However, on a motorcycle, there shall be displayed at least one and
not more than two lighted lights as required herein.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.14)
337.14 USE OF HEADLIGHT BEAMS.
   (a)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in Section
337.02, the driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam,
directed high enough and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles
and substantial objects at a safe distance in advance of the vehicle, except
that upon approaching an oncoming vehicle, the lights or beams shall be so
aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming
driver.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.15)
337.15 LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES.
   (a)   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in
Section
337.02 when it is equipped with two lighted lights upon the front thereof
capable of revealing persons and substantial objects seventy-five feet ahead in
lieu of lights required in Section
337.13, provided that such vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess
of twenty miles per hour.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.16)
337.16 NUMBER OF LIGHTS; LIMITATIONS ON FLASHING, OSCILLATING OR ROTATING
LIGHTS.
   (a)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights also is equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candle power, not more than
a total of five of any such lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted
at any one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (b)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candle power, shall
be so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than seventy-five feet from the
vehicle.
   (c)   (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or left turn, or in the presence of a vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, or overtaking or passing.
      (2)   The prohibition in subsection (c)(1) of this section does not apply
to any of the following:
         A.   Emergency vehicles, road service vehicles servicing or towing a
disabled vehicle, stationary waste collection vehicles actively collecting
garbage, refuse, trash or recyclable materials on the roadside, rural mail
delivery vehicles, vehicles as provided in Ohio R.C. 4513.182, highway
maintenance vehicles, and similar equipment operated by state or local
authorities, provided such vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on
a street or highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights, a
flashing, oscillating or rotating amber light;
         B.   Vehicles or machinery permitted by Ohio R.C. 4513.111 to have a
flashing red light;
         C.   Farm machinery and vehicles escorting farm machinery, provided
such machinery and vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a
street or highway, a flashing, oscillating or rotating amber light. Farm
machinery also may display the lights described in Ohio R.C. 4513.111.
         D.   A funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle, provided that the
funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle is equipped with and displays, when
used on a street or highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights,
a flashing, oscillating or rotating purple or amber light;
         E.   A vehicle being used for emergency preparedness, response, and
recovery activities, as those terms are defined in Ohio R.C. 5502.21, that is
equipped with and displays, when used on a street or highway for the special
purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber
or red and white light, provided that the vehicle is being operated by a person
from one of the following and the vehicle is clearly marked with the applicable
agency’s or authority’s insignia:
            1.    The Ohio Emergency Management Agency;
            2.    A countywide emergency management agency established under
Ohio R.C. 5502.26;
            3.    A regional authority for emergency management established
under Ohio R.C. 5502.27;
            4.    A program for emergency management established under Ohio
R.C. 5502.271.
      (3)   Subsection (c)(1) of this section does not apply to animal-drawn
vehicles subject to Ohio R.C. 4513.114.
   (d)   (1)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in
Ohio R.C. 4511.01(E), an emergency management agency vehicle, as described in
subsection (c)(2)E. of this section, or a school bus, no person shall operate,
move, or park upon, or permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public
street or highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying
a flashing red or a flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating
or rotating red light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating
light.
      (2)   Except a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to
enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety
vehicle when on duty, no person shall operate, move, or park upon, or permit to
stand within the right-of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment
that is equipped with, or upon which is mounted, and displaying a flashing blue
or a flashing combination blue and white light, or an oscillating or rotating
blue light, or a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (e)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights either on farm machinery or vehicles
escorting farm machinery, when used on a street or highway.
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.17)
337.17 FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (a)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in Section
337.02 to
337.16, inclusive, upon any motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless the
lights are equipped, mounted and adjusted as to focus and aim in accordance
with State regulations.
   (b)   The headlights on any motor vehicle shall comply with the headlamp
color requirements contained in federal motor vehicle safety standard number
108, 49 C.F.R. 571.108. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in violation of
this subsection.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.19)
337.171 LIGHTS ON SNOW REMOVAL EQUIPMENT AND OVERSIZE VEHICLES.
   (a)   It is unlawful to operate snow removal equipment or oversize vehicles
on a highway unless the lights thereon comply with and are lighted when and as
required by the standards and specifications adopted by the State Director of
Transportation.
   (b)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
337.172 LIGHTS AND SIGNS ON VEHICLE TRANSPORTING PRESCHOOL CHILDREN TO AND FROM
INSTITUTION.
   (a)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle (which is owned, leased or
hired by a nursery school, kindergarten or day care center) while transporting
preschool children to or from such an institution unless the vehicle is
equipped with and displays two amber flashing lights mounted on a bar attached
to the top of the vehicle and a sign bearing the designation, "Caution -
- Children." That sign shall be attached to the bar carrying the amber flashing
lights in such a manner as to be legible to persons both in front of and behind
the vehicle. The lights and signs shall meet standards and specifications
adopted by the State Director of Public Safety.
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the lights and
signs required by this section for any purpose other than the transportation of
preschool children to or from such an institution.
   (c)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
337.18 MOTOR VEHICLE AND MOTORCYCLE BRAKES.
   (a)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
street or highway, shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the
movement of and to stop and hold such motor vehicle, including two separate
means of applying the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply
the brakes to at least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the
brakes are connected in any way, then on such motor vehicles manufactured or
assembled after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle
without brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a street or highway, shall be
equipped with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by
foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under Ohio R.C. 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the streets or highways of this Municipality,
the following vehicles shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the
movement of and to stop and to hold the vehicle designed to be applied by the
driver of the towing motor vehicle from its cab, and also designed and
connected so that, in case of a breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes
shall be automatically applied:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of two thousand pounds
or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942;
         B.   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight of
two thousand pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1,
2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of three thousand pounds or more that is
manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate
brakes equipped with hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two
wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds, and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver's muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other sources of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
(9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall be
capable at all times and under all conditions of loading of being stopped on a
dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
 
                             From a speed of 20 miles per hour
                                                        Deceleration in
                             Stopping distance in feet feet per second
                                                        per second
Brakes on all wheels          30                        14
Brakes not on all four wheels 40                        10.7
 
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
   
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
337.19 HORN, SIREN AND THEFT ALARM SIGNAL.
   (a)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a street shall be equipped with
a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting sound audible,
under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200 feet.
   (b)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use upon
a vehicle, any siren, whistle or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a theft
alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as an
ordinary warning signal. Every emergency or public safety vehicle shall be
equipped with a siren, whistle or bell capable of emitting sound audible under
normal conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type
approved by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. Such equipment shall not be
used except when such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or
is in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in
which case the driver of the emergency or public safety vehicle shall sound
such equipment when it is necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of
the approach thereof.
   (c)   No person shall use the horn of a motor vehicle except to give warning
to other drivers or pedestrians.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. (ORC
4513.21)
337.20 MUFFLER; MUFFLER CUTOUT; EXCESSIVE SMOKE, GAS OR NOISE.
   (a)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion engine
shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working order
and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no person
shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass or similar device upon a motor vehicle on a
highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle plates.
   (b)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person’s possession any
motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow
into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of such vehicle, or equipped in any
other way to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any
portion of such vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust
of an internal combustion engine under normal operation.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. (ORC
4513.22)
337.21 REAR-VIEW MIRROR; CLEAR VIEW TO FRONT, BOTH SIDES AND REAR.
   (a)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the street to the rear of such
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles or
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles or
motorcycles by mirror.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. (ORC
4513.23)
   
337.22 WINDSHIELD AND WINDSHIELD WIPER; SIGN OR POSTER THEREON.
   (a)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway, other
than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not equipped with a windshield.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side or rear windows of such vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign, poster or
decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as to conceal
the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when in accordance with
federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle passenger compartment
and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle glazing without moving any
part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Subsection (b)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         A.   It is a “vehicle safety technology” as defined in 49 C.F.R.
§393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. §393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         B.   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it does not conceal the vehicle
identification number.
      (3)   Subsection (b)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         A.   It is a “vehicle safety technology” as defined in 49 C.F.R.
§393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. §393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         B.   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it is mounted not more than eight and
one-half inches below the upper edge of the windshield.
   (c)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow or other moisture from the windshield. The device shall
be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be controlled or
operated by the operator of the vehicle.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.24)
337.23 LIMITED LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF PASSENGER VEHICLE.
   (a)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a street with any load
carried on such vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the vehicle's left side. (ORC 4513.30)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
337.24 MOTOR VEHICLE STOP LIGHTS.
   (a)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, and pole trailer when
operated upon a street or highway shall be equipped with two or more stop
lights, except that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January
1, 1967, motorcycles, and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least
one stop light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle,
actuated upon application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with
other rear lights. Such stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light
visible from a distance of five hundred feet to the rear, provided that in the
case of a train of vehicles only the stop lights on the rear-most vehicle need
be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Such stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light to
the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
Ohio R.C. 4513.19.
      (4)   A historical motor vehicle that was not originally manufactured
with stop lights or a replica motor vehicle that replicates a motor vehicle
that was not originally manufactured with stop lights is not subject to this
section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.071)
337.25 AIR CLEANER REQUIRED.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle with an internal combustion
engine unless the carburetion system of the vehicle is protected with an air
filter, a flame arresting device, or any other accepted method of protection
that is adequate for this purpose. If the original device or system is
replaced, it shall be replaced with one that is equal to or better than the
original equipment.
   (b)   This section does not apply to a person doing automotive repair work
on a motor vehicle that necessitates this device being removed while the work
is performed.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
337.26 CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM USAGE.
   (a)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in Ohio R.C. 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions in a child
restraint system that meets federal motor safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than forty pounds.
   (b)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, that is owned,
leased or otherwise under the control of a nursery school, or child care
center, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured
in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions in a child restraint system
that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than forty pounds.
   (c)   When any child who is less than eight years of age and less than four
feet nine inches in height, who is not required by subsection (a) or (b) of
this section to be secured in a child restraint system, is being transported in
a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in
Ohio R.C. 4511.01 or a vehicle that is regulated under Ohio R.C. 5104.011, that
is required by the United States Department of Transportation to be equipped
with seat belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the
motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions on a booster seat that meets federal motor vehicle
safety standards.
   (d)   When any child who is at least eight years of age but not older that
fifteen years of age and who is not otherwise required by subsection (a), (b)
or (c) hereof to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in Ohio R.C. 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions
in a child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards
or in an occupant restraining device as defined in Ohio R.C. 4513.263.
   (e)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of subsection (c) or (d) of this section has
been or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket,
citation, or summons for a violation of subsection (c) or (d) of this section
or causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a
violation of subsection (c) or (d) of this section, and absent another
violation of law, a law enforcement officer’s view of the interior or visual
inspection of a motor vehicle being operated on any street or highway may not
be used for the purpose of determining whether a violation of subsection (c) or
(d) of this section has been or is being committed.
   (f)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt such rules as are
necessary to carry out this section.
   (g)   The failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to secure a child in a
child restraint system, a booster seat or an occupant restraining device as
required by this section is not negligence imputable to the child, is not
admissible as evidence in any civil action involving the rights of the child
against any other person allegedly liable for injuries to the child, is not to
be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the operator of the motor
vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section, and is not
admissible as evidence in any criminal action involving the operator of the
motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (h)   This section does not apply when an emergency exists that threatens
the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is being
used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be restrained
under this section. This section does not apply to a person operating a motor
vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
State under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4731 a clinical nurse specialist or certified
nurse practitioner licensed to practice in this State under Ohio R.C. Chapter
4723, or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this State under Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4734 that states that the child who otherwise would be required to be
restrained under this section has a physical impairment that makes use of a
child restraint system, booster seat or an occupant restraining device
impossible or impractical, provided that the person operating the vehicle has
safely and appropriately restrained the child in accordance with any
recommendations of the physician, nurse or chiropractor as noted on the
affidavit.
   (i)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to
carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to prove the age of the
child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for a child showing that
the child was not of an age to which this section applies is a defense against
any ticket, citation or summons issued for violating this section.
   (j)   Whoever violates subsection (a), (b), (c) or (d) of this section shall
be punished as follows, provided that the failure of an operator of a motor
vehicle to secure more than one child in a child restraint system, booster
seat, or occupant restraining device as required by this section that occurred
at the same time, on the same day, and at the same location is deemed to be a
single violation of this section:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (j)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seventy-five dollars ($75.00).
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of subsection (a), (b), (c) or (d) of this section or of a state
law or municipal ordinance that is substantially similar to any of those
subsections, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
         (ORC 4511.81)
337.27 CERTAIN RADIO RECEIVING SETS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Except on written permission of the City Manager based on public
necessity or safety, and subject to any conditions which are part of that
permission, no person shall equip, own, maintain or operate any motor vehicle
in the City with radio receiving sets for the purpose of receiving police and
fire signals of the City.
   (b)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
337.28 USE OF SUNSCREENING, NONTRANSPARENT AND REFLECTORIZED MATERIALS.
   (a)   Requirements.
      (1)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease, or rent any
motor vehicle that is required to be registered in this State with any
sunscreening material, or other product or material which has the effect of
making the windshield or windows nontransparent or would alter the windows’
color, increase its reflectivity, or reduce its light transmittance, unless the
product or material satisfies one of the following exceptions:
   A.   Any manufacturer’s tinting or glazing of motor vehicle windows or
windshields that is otherwise in compliance with or permitted by “Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standard Number 205" (FMVSS 205) in effect at the time of the
manufacture of the motor vehicle until such standard is subsequently repealed
or reduced. In “Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 205" (FMVSS 205)
“manufacturer” means any person engaged in the manufacturing or assembling of
motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment, including any person importing motor
vehicles or motor vehicle equipment for resale. “Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standard Number 205" (FMVSS), Code of Federal Regulations, Title 49, Part 571,
can be obtained online at web site http://www.gpo.gov.
   B.   Any sunscreening material or other product or material applied to the
windshield when used in conjunction with the safety glazing materials of such
window, has a light transmittance of not less than seventy per cent plus or
minus three per cent and is not red or yellow in color.
         C.   Any sunscreening material or other product or material applied to
the side windows to the immediate right or left the driver, so long as such
material, when used in conjunction with the safety glazing materials of such
windows, has a light transmittance of not less than fifty per cent plus or
minus three per cent and is not red or yellow in color.
   D.   Any sunscreening material or other product or material applied to a
window not otherwise listed in subsections (a)(1)A. to C. or E. of this
section, except that outside left and right rear view mirrors are required if
the sunscreening material is applied to the rear window and the sunscreening
material, when used in conjunction with the safety glazing material of such
window, has a light tranmsmittance of less than fifty per cent plus or minus
three per cent.
   E.   Any sunscreening material or other product or material applied along
the top of the windshield and that does not extend downward beyond the AS-
1 line or five inches from the top of the windshield, whichever is closer to
the top, is not regulated by this section.
      (2)   No person shall install in any motor vehicle any glass or other
material that fails to conform to the specifications of this section.
      (3)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as
defined in Ohio R.C. 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to
conform to the specifications of this section.
      (4)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings or rear window.
      (5)   No person shall operate on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease, or rent any
motor vehicle that is required to be registered in this State that is equipped
with privacy drapes, louvers, curtains or blinds unless the drapes, louvers,
curtains or blinds are open and secure during vehicle operation.
      (6)   All motor vehicles, beginning with the 1990 model year, must be
equipped with labels identifying sunscreening material. All sunscreening
material must indicate the manufacturer’s name and the percentage level of
light transmission of the material permanently installed between the material
and the surface to which the material is applied or affixed. Such label must be
legible and must be placed in the lower left-hand corner of the vehicle window
when viewed from the outside. (OAC 4501-41-03)
   (b)   Exemptions. The provisions of this section do not apply to:
      (1)   A motor vehicle registered in this State in the name of a person,
or the person's parent, legal guardian or spouse who has an affidavit signed by
a physician licensed to practice in this State under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4731 or
an affidavit signed by an optometrist licensed to practice in this State under
Ohio R.C. Chapter 4725 that states that the person has a physical condition
that makes it necessary to equip such motor vehicle with sunscreening material
which would be of a light transmittance and/or luminous reflectance in
violation of this section. Such affidavit shall be in the possession of the
person so afflicted or the driver at all times while in the motor vehicle;
      (2)   The windows to the rear of the driver in chauffeured limousines as
defined herein;
      (3)   The windows to the rear of the driver in those vehicles designed
and used to transport corpses which include hearses and other vehicles adapted
for such use; and
      (4)   The manufacturer's tinting or glazing of motor vehicle windows or
windshields that is otherwise in compliance with or permitted by "Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standard Number 205" (FMVSS 205) in effect at the time of the
manufacture of the motor vehicle as provided in subsection (a) hereof. “Federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 205" (FMVSS 205), Code of Federal
Regulations, Title 49, Part 571, can be obtained online at web site http://
www.gpo.gov. (OAC 4501-41-05)
   (c)   Definitions. As used in this section, certain terms are defined as
follows:
      (1)   "Motor vehicle" has the same meaning as specified in Section
301.46 .
      (2)   "Sunscreening material" means products or materials, including
film, glazing and perforated sunscreening, which, when applied to the
windshield or windows of a motor vehicle, reduce the effects of the sun with
respect to light reflectance or transmittance.
      (3)   "Transmittance" means the ratio of the amount of total light,
expressed in percentages, which is allowed to pass through the product or
material, including glazing, to the amount of total light falling on the
product or material and the glazing.
      (4)   "Windshield" means the front exterior viewing device of a motor
vehicle.
      (5)   "Window" means any device designed for exterior viewing from a
motor vehicle, except the windshield or any roof-mounted viewing device.
      (6)   "Manufacturer" unless otherwise specified in this section, means
any person who engages in the manufacturing or assembling of sunscreening
products or materials or any person who fabricates, laminates or tempers a
safety glazing material, incorporating, during the manufacturing process, the
capacity to reflect or reduce the transmission of light.
      (7)   “Chauffeured limousine” means a motor vehicle that is designed to
carry nine or fewer passengers and is operated for hire on an hourly basis
pursuant to a prearranged contract for the transportation of passengers on
public roads and highways along a route under the control of the person hiring
the vehicle and not over a defined and regular route. “Prearranged contract”
means an arrangement, made in advance of boarding, to provide transportation
from a specific location in a chauffeured limousine at a fixed rate per hour or
trip. “Chauffeured limousine” does not include any vehicle that is used
exclusively in the business of funeral directing.
         (OAC 4501-41-02)
   (d)   Penalty. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.241)
337.29 BUMPER HEIGHTS.
   (a)   Definitions.
      (1)   "Passenger car" means any motor vehicle with motive power, designed
for carrying ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle or
motorcycle.
      (2)   "Multipurpose passenger vehicle" means a motor vehicle with motive
power, except a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that is
constructed either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional
off-road operation.
      (3)   "Truck" means every motor vehicle, except trailers and
semitrailers, designed and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle
weight rating of 10,000 pounds or less.
      (4)   "Manufacturer" has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4501.01.
      (5)   "Gross vehicle weight rating" means the manufacturer's gross
vehicle weight rating established for the vehicle.
      (6)   "Body floor height" means the vertical distance between top of the
frame rail and the bottom of the passenger compartment (cab) floor. In the
event that the vehicle is a truck body, floor height will be measured by the
vertical distance between the passenger compartment (cab) floor and the floor
of the truck bed.
      (7)   "Bumper height" means the vertical distance between the ground and
the highest point of the bottom of the bumper, measured when the vehicle is
laden on a level surface with the vehicle tires inflated to the manufacturer's
recommended pressure.
      (8)   "Frame" means the main longitudinal structural members of the
chassis of the vehicle or, for vehicles with unitized body construction, the
lowest main longitudinal structural members of the body of the vehicle.
   (9)   “Wheel track distance” means the distance on the ground between the
center of the tire tread on one side of the vehicle, and the center of the tire
tread on the opposite side. (OAC 4501-43-02)
   (b)   Prohibitions; Application.
      (1)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this State that does not
conform to the requirements of this section.
      (2)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this State
in such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact
with the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the
wheels to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person
shall disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to
defeat the safe operation of that system including the installation of
inverted, altered or modified suspension system component parts which results
in elevation of the height of the vehicle bumper or frame unit which is not in
compliance with this section.
      (3)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this State without a
bumper on the front and rear of the vehicle if such vehicle was equipped with
bumpers as standard equipment by the manufacturer.
      (4)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this State if the
difference in height between the body floor and the top of the frame exceeds
four inches.
      (5)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to prohibit
either of the following:
         A.   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle or truck registered in this State of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs as long as such equipment does not cause
the vehicle to be in violation of this section;
         B.   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this State with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
      (6)   This section does not apply to any specially designed or modified
passenger car, multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck when operated off a
street or highway in races and similar events.
      (7)   A specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose
passenger vehicle or truck which does not conform to this section shall not be
operated on a street or highway. (OAC 4501-43-03)
   (c)   Specifications.
      (1)   The horizontal bumper shall be at least 4.5 inches in vertical
height, centered on the vehicle's centerline, and extend no less than the width
of the respective wheel track distances. Bumpers shall be horizontal load
bearing bumpers and attached to the vehicle frame to effectively transfer
impact when engaged.
      (2)   Maximum bumper heights shall be determined by the type of vehicle
at time of manufacture. If other than a passenger vehicle, the maximum bumper
height shall be determined by the gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) at the
time of manufacture. The height shall be measured in terms of the vertical
distance between the ground and the bottom of the bumper. Maximum bumper
heights are as follows:
 
                               Front (inches) Rear (inches)
Passenger Vehicles             22             22
All Other Vehicles:
4,500 lbs. and under GVWR      24             26
4,501 lbs. to 7,500 lbs. GVWR  27             29
7,501 lbs. to 10,000 lbs. GVWR 28             31
      (3)   If the body and/or truck bed height is altered the difference in
height between the body floor and/or the truck bed floor to the top of the
frame rail shall not exceed four inches.
      (4)   For any vehicle with bumpers or attaching components which have
been modified or altered from the original manufacturer's design in order to
conform with the maximum bumper requirements of this section, the bumper height
shall be measured from a level surface to the bottom of the vehicle frame rail
at the most forward and rearward points of the frame rail. Frame rail height if
bumper modified or altered:
 
                               Front (inches) Rear (inches)
Passenger Vehicles             22             22
All Other Vehicles:
4,500 lbs. and under GVWR      24             26
4,501 lbs. to 7,500 lbs. GVWR  27             29
7,501 lbs. to 10,000 lbs. GVWR 28             31
      (5)   The height restriction in this subsection (c) applies to the
distance from the ground to the bottom of the frame rail under any one or more
of the following conditions:
         A.   A motor vehicle is not equipped with a front and rear bumper.
         B.   The bumper height relative to the frame rails has been altered.
         C.   A supplemental bumper has been installed or an addition to the
original or replacement has been made.
            (OAC 4501-43-04)
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
337.30 INSPECTION BY POLICE OFFICER
   (a)   When directed by any law enforcement officer, the operator of any
motor vehicle shall stop and submit such motor vehicle to an inspection and
such tests as are necessary to determine whether it is unsafe or not equipped
as required by law, or to determine if its equipment is not in proper
adjustment or repair or is in violation of the equipment provisions of this
chapter.    
   (b)   Notwithstanding this section, no law enforcement officer shall cause
an operator of an automobile being operated on any street or highway to stop
the automobile for the sole purpose of determining whether a violation of a
seat belt requirement has been or is being committed or for the sole purpose of
issuing a ticket, citation or summons for such a violation or for causing the
arrest or commencing prosecution of a person for such violation.
337.31 DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 1954, unless the vehicle is equipped with
electrical or mechanical directional signals.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motorcycle or motor-driven cycle
manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1968, unless the vehicle is
equipped with electrical or mechanical directional signals.
   (b)   “Directional signals” means an electrical or mechanical signal device
capable of clearly indicating an intention to turn either to the right or to
the left and which shall be visible from both the front and rear.
   (c)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminating devices when
in use at the times mentioned in Section
337.02.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.261)
337.32 LIGHTS AND SIGN ON TRANSPORTATION FOR PRESCHOOL CHILDREN.
   (a)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle owned, leased, or hired by a
nursery school, kindergarten, or child care center, while transporting
preschool children to or from such an institution unless the motor vehicle is
equipped with and displaying two amber flashing lights mounted on a bar
attached to the top of the vehicle, and a sign bearing the designation “caution
– children”, which shall be attached to the bar carrying the amber flashing
lights in such a manner as to be legible to persons both in front of and behind
the vehicle. The lights and sign shall meet standards and specifications
adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the lights and sign
required by this section for any purpose other than the transportation of
preschool children as provided in this section. (ORC 4513.182)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
CHAPTER 339
Commercial and Heavy Vehicles
339.01   Oversize or overweight vehicle operation on State routes; State
permit.
339.02   Truck routes.
339.03   Maximum width, height and length.
339.04   Route and load information.
339.05   Wheel protectors.
339.06   Vehicles transporting explosives.
339.07   Towing requirements.
339.08   Loads dropping or leaking; removal required; tracking mud.
339.09   Shifting load; loose loads.
339.10   Vehicles with spikes, lugs and chains.
339.11   Use of studded tires and chains.
339.12   Bus routes.
339.13   Idling of engines in residential areas.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
   See sectional histories for similar State law
   Weighing vehicle; removal of excess load - see Ohio R.C. 4513.33
   Arrest notice of driver - see Ohio R.C. 5577.14
   Slower moving vehicles to be driven in right-hand lane - see TRAF.
331.01(b)
 
 
339.01 OVERSIZE OR OVERWEIGHT VEHICLE OPERATION ON STATE ROUTES; STATE PERMIT.
   (a)   No person shall operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles
of a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in Ohio
R.C. 5577.01 to 5577.09, inclusive, or otherwise not in conformity with Ohio
R.C. 4513.01 to 4513.37, inclusive, upon any State route within the
Municipality, except pursuant to special written permit issued by the Ohio
Director of Transportation, or upon any local truck route. Every such permit
shall be carried in the vehicle or combination of vehicles to which it refers
and shall be open to inspection by any police officer.
   No holder of a permit issued by the Ohio Director of Transportation shall be
required to obtain any local permit or license or pay any local fee or charge
for movement on any State route within the Municipality; however, it shall be
unlawful to operate any such vehicle or combination of vehicles upon any
roadway within the Municipality which is not a State route, except as provided
in Section
339.02. (ORC 4513.34)
   (b)   (1)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to gross load limits.
      (2)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to axle load by more than 2000 pounds per axle or group of
axles.
      (3)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to an approved route except upon order of a law enforcement
officer or authorized agent of the issuing authority.
   (c)   Whoever violates any provision of this section for which no other
penalty is provided is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. (ORC 4513.99)
339.02 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section the following terms,
phrases and words, and their derivation, shall have the meaning given herein.
      (1)   "City" means the City of Oakwood, Montgomery County, Ohio.
      (2)   "Deviating truck" means a truck which leaves and departs from a
truck route while traveling inside the City.
      (3)   "Person" means any person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company or organization of any kind.
      (4)   "Truck" means any vehicle designed or operated primarily for the
transportation of property, and whose body weight or combined body and load
weight exceeds 10,000 pounds.
      (5)   "Truck route" means a way over certain streets, as designated
herein, over and along which trucks coming into and going out of the city must
operate.
   (b)   Application of Section. All trucks within the city shall be operated
only over and along the truck routes herein established and on the other
designated streets over which truck travel is permitted. This section shall not
prohibit:
      (1)   Operation on street of destination. The operation of trucks upon
any street of origin or where necessary to conduct business at a destination
point, provided truck routes are used to or from the nearest intersection to
the point of origin or destination.
      (2)   Emergency vehicles. The operation of emergency vehicles upon any
street in the City.
      (3)   Public utilities. The operation of trucks owned or operated by the
city, public utilities, any contractor or a material man, while engaged in the
repair, maintenance or construction of streets, street improvements or street
utilities within the city.
      (4)   Detoured trucks. The operation of trucks upon any officially
established street for which such detour is established.
   (c)   Truck Routes Established. The following truck routes are hereby
established within the City: Far Hills Avenue (which is the same as State Route
48); West Schantz Avenue; Patterson Road; Shroyer Road; Schantz Avenue, west of
Oakwood Avenue; Oakwood Avenue, from Brown Street to Far Hills Avenue.
   (d)   Truck Traffic in the City.
      (1)   Outside origin; outside destination. All trucks entering the city
from points outside the City and proceeding directly to a destination point
outside the City shall operate only over the designated truck routes.
      (2)   Outside origin; inside destination.
         A.   One inside destination point. All trucks entering the City for a
destination point in the City shall proceed only over an established truck
route and shall deviate only at the intersection nearest the destination point.
Upon leaving the destination point, a deviating truck shall return to the truck
route by the shortest permissible route.
         B.   Multiple inside destination points. All trucks entering the City
for multiple destination points shall proceed only over established truck
routes and shall deviate only at the intersection nearest to the first
destination point. Upon leaving the first destination point a deviating truck
shall proceed to other destination points by the shortest and most direct
course. Upon leaving the last destination point, a deviating truck shall return
to a truck route by the shortest permissible route.
      (3)   Inside origin.
         A.   Outside destination point. All trucks, on a trip originating in
the City and traveling in the City for a destination point outside the City,
shall proceed by the shortest and most direct course over streets to a truck
route as herein established.
         B.   Inside destination point. All trucks, on a trip originating in
the City and traveling in the City for destination point in the City, shall
proceed only by the shortest and most direct course.
   (e)   Signs. The City Manager shall cause all truck routes to be clearly
sign posted to give notice that this section is in effect.
   (f)   Compliance required. No person shall drive a truck over any public
street within the city except upon those streets herein designated as truck
routes and except upon streets providing the shortest and most direct course
between truck routes and origin or destination points as herein provided.
   (g)   Penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after
the first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
on each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
339.03 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT AND LENGTH.
   (a)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways, streets,
bridges and culverts within the Municipality, whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (b)   No such vehicle shall have a width in excess of:
      (1)   104 inches for passenger bus type vehicles operated exclusively
within municipal corporations;
      (2)   102 inches, excluding such safety devices as are required by law,
for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways, and such other State
roads with minimum pavement widths of twenty-two feet, except those roads or
portions of roads over which operation of 102-inch buses is prohibited by order
of the Ohio Director of Transportation;
      (3)   132 inches for traction engines;
      (4)   102 inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety devices and
retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in width and
except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch recreational
vehicles on designated State highways or portions of highways;
      (5)   102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles, except that the
Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch vehicles on such State highways
or portions of State highways as the Director designates.
   (c)   No such vehicle shall have a length in excess of:
      (1)   66 feet for passenger bus type vehicles and articulated passenger
bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to Ohio
R.C. 306.30 to 306.54;
      (2)   45 feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles;
      (3)   53 feet for any semitrailer when operated in a commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination, with or without load, except that the Director may, by
journal entry, prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination on such State highways or portions of State highways as
the Director designates;
      (4)   28.5 feet for any semitrailer or trailer when operated in a
commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-semitrailer-
semitrailer combination, except that the Director may prohibit the operation of
any such commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-
semitrailer-semitrailer combination on such State highways or portions of State
highways as the Director designates;
      (5)   A.   97 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle transporter
combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle transporter
combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route, or State
route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a distance
not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route, or State
route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles, but which may include one
fullmount;
         B.   75 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle transporter
combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle transporter
combinations, when operated on any roadway not designated as an interstate,
United States route, or State route, not to exceed three saddlemounted
vehicles, but which may include one fullmount;
      (6)   65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled together,
with or without load, except as provided in subsections (c)(3) and (4) and in
subsection (e) hereof;
      (7)   45 feet for recreational vehicles.
      (8)   50 feet for all other vehicles except trailers and semitrailers,
with or without load.
   (d)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of thirteen feet six
inches, with or without load.
   (e)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of sixty-five feet and a stinger-steered automobile transporter or
stinger-steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of seventy-five
feet, except that the load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the
rear of such vehicles and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front
of such vehicles, and except further that the Director may prohibit the
operation of any stinger- steered automobile transporter or stinger-steered
boat transporter or a B-train assembly on any State highway or portion of any
State highway that the Director designates.
   (f)   The widths prescribed in subsection (b) shall not include side
mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry and egress,
flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant devices,
and load-induced tire bulge.
   The width prescribed in subsection (b)(5) shall not include automatic
covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware, and tiedown assemblies, provided
these safety devices do not extend more than three inches from each side of the
vehicle.
   The lengths prescribed in subsections (c)(2) to (8) hereof shall not include
safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear of such bus or
combination, nonproperty carrying devices or components that do not extend more
than twenty-four inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for
loading or unloading, B-train assembly used between the first and second
semitrailer of a commercial tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination, energy
conservation devices as provided in any regulations adopted by the Secretary of
the United States Department of Transportation, or any noncargo-carrying
refrigeration equipment attached to the front of trailers and semitrailers. In
special cases, vehicles whose dimensions exceed those prescribed by this
section may operate in accordance with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of
Transportation.
   (g)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks or other
vehicles or apparatus belonging to any municipal corporation or to the
volunteer fire department of any municipal corporation or used by such
department in the discharge of its functions. This section does not apply to
vehicles and pole trailers used in the transportation of wooden and metal
poles, nor to the transportation of pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to
farm machinery and equipment. The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery
or equipment not specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of
which exceed the dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same
on the highways and streets of this State shall comply with the rules of the
Director governing such movement, that the Director may adopt. Ohio R.C. 119.01
to 119.13 apply to any rules the Director adopts under this section, or the
amendment or rescission of the rules, and any person adversely affected shall
have the same right of appeal as provided in those sections.
   This section does not require the State, the Municipality, County, township
or any railroad or other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical
clearance to permit the operation of such vehicle, or to make any changes in or
about existing structures now crossing streets, roads and other public
thoroughfares in the Municipality.
   (h)   As used in this section, “recreational vehicle” has the same meaning
as in Ohio R.C. 4501.01. (ORC 5577.05)
   (i)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense or subsequent offense, the person is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. (ORC 5577.99)
339.04 ROUTE AND LOAD INFORMATION.
   Drivers of vehicles described in this chapter shall be required, upon
request by a police officer, to give full and true information as to the route
they are following and the name of the consignor and consignee and place of
delivery or removal and the location of any consignment being hauled or goods
being removed, and upon a designation by such police officer of a route to be
followed, shall immediately adopt and pursue such route.
339.05 WHEEL PROTECTORS.
   (a)   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated,
any commercial car, trailer or semitrailer, used for the transportation of
goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons,
upon the streets, bridges and culverts within this Municipality unless such
vehicle is equipped with suitable metal protectors or substantial flexible
flaps on the rearmost wheels of such vehicle or combination of vehicles to
prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from throwing dirt, water or other
materials on the windshields of following vehicles. Such protectors or flaps
shall have a ground clearance of not more than one-
third of the distance from the center of the rearmost axle to the center of the
flaps under any conditions of loading of the vehicle, and they shall be at
least as wide as the tires they are protecting. If the vehicle is so designed
and constructed that such requirements are accomplished by means of fenders,
body construction or other means of enclosure, then no such protectors or flaps
are required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by fenders, bodies or other
parts of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by protective means extending
at least to the center line of the rearmost axle. (ORC 5577.11)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
339.06 VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (a)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a street
or highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Such vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word "EXPLOSIVES" in letters not less than eight inches high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than
twenty-four inches square marked with the word "DANGER" in white letters six
inches high, or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with Section 177.823
of the United States Department of Transportation Regulations.
      (2)   Such vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on such vehicle. (ORC 4513.29)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
339.07 TOWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all weight towed thereby,
and such drawbar or other connection shall not exceed fifteen feet from one
vehicle to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles
transporting poles, pipe, machinery or other objects of structural nature which
cannot readily be dismembered.
   (b)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only of
a chain, rope or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a white
flag or cloth not less than twelve inches square.
   (c)   In addition to such drawbar or other connection, each trailer and each
semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a fifth
wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which it is
being drawn. The chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and strength to
prevent the towed vehicle's parting from the drawing vehicle in case the
drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case of a
loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle's parting from the drawing vehicle.
   (d)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and pole
and cable dollies operated by a public utility, as defined in Ohio R.C.
5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed
and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of twenty-five miles per hour or less, and
vehicles designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of
storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a
street or highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of
twenty-five miles per hour or less shall have a drawbar or other connection,
including the hitch mounted on the towing vehicle, which shall be of sufficient
strength to pull all the weight towed thereby. Only one such vehicle used to
transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials as provided
in this section may be towed or drawn at one time, except as follows:
      (1)   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such vehicle;
      (2)   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle. (ORC 4513.32)
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
339.08 LOADS DROPPING OR LEAKING; REMOVAL REQUIRED; TRACKING MUD.
   (a)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street, highway or other
public place unless such vehicle is so constructed, loaded or covered as to
prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping
therefrom, except that sand or other substances may be dropped for the purpose
of securing traction, or water or other substances may be sprinkled on a
roadway in cleaning or maintaining such roadway.
   (b)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any street, highway or other public place unless the load is covered
with a sufficient cover to prevent the load or any part of the load from
spilling onto the street, highway or other public place.
(ORC 4513.31)
   (c)   No person shall operate any vehicle so as to track or drop mud,
stones, gravel or other similar material on any street, highway or other public
place.
   (d)   It shall be the duty of the driver of a vehicle who unlawfully drops
or deposits mud, stones, gravel or other similar material or permits the load
or any portion thereof to be dropped or deposited upon any street, highway or
other public place to immediately remove the same or cause it to be removed.
(ORC 4513.31)
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
339.09 SHIFTING LOAD; LOOSE LOADS.
   (a)   In addition to any other lawful requirements of load distribution, no
person shall operate any vehicle upon a street or highway unless such vehicle
is so laden as to prevent its contents from shifting or otherwise unbalancing
the vehicle to such an extent as to interfere with the safe operation of the
same.
   (b)   No motor vehicle or trailer shall be driven unless the tailboard or
tailgate, tarpaulins, chains (except ground or contact chains), ropes, stakes,
poles, and the like, or any part of the load, are securely fastened to prevent
dangling, flapping, swinging or falling from the side, end or top of the load
or body. All projecting cargo shall be properly guarded by a red flag or cloth
or a red light or lantern as required by Section
337.08.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
339.10 VEHICLES WITH SPIKES, LUGS AND CHAINS.
   (a)   No person shall drive over the improved streets of this Municipality a
traction engine or tractor with tires or wheels equipped with ice picks, spuds,
spikes, chains or other projections of any kind extending beyond the cleats, or
no person shall tow or in any way pull another vehicle over the improved
streets of this Municipality, which towed or pulled vehicle has tires or wheels
equipped with ice picks, spuds, spikes, chains or other projections of any
kind. "Traction engine" or "tractor," as used in this section, applies to all
self-propelling engines equipped with metal-tired wheels operated or propelled
by any form of engine, motor or mechanical power. (ORC 5589.08)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 5589.99)
339.11 USE OF STUDDED TIRES AND CHAINS.
   (a)   For purposes of this section, "studded tire" means any tire designed
for use on a vehicle, and equipped with metal studs or studs of wear-resisting
material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire.
"Motor vehicle," "street or highway," "public safety vehicle" and "school bus"
have the same meanings as given those terms in Chapter
301 .
   (b)   (1)   Except as provided in subsection (b)(2) hereof, no person shall
operate any motor vehicle, other than a public safety vehicle or bus, that is
equipped with studded tires on any street or highway, except during the period
extending from November 1 of each year through April 15 of the succeeding year.
      (2)   A person may operate a motor vehicle that is equipped with
retractable studded tires with the studs retracted at any time of the year, but
shall operate the motor vehicle with the studs extended only as provided in
subsection (b)(1) hereof.
   (c)   This section does not apply to the use of tire chains when there is
snow or ice on the streets or highways where such chains are being used, or the
immediate vicinity thereof. (ORC 5589.081)
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 5589.99)
339.12 BUS ROUTES.
   (a)   Definition. For the purposes of this section the word "bus" shall mean
any motor vehicles which exceeds any one of the following measurements:
Height: Seven feet (measured from ground level) plus an additional one and one-
half feet for accessories, but no antenna shall be measured in determining the
height.
      Width: Seven feet.
      Length: Twenty feet.
   The following objects shall be excluded, however, from the above definition
of a bus while being used on a direct route to and from their destination
within this City:
      (1)   Academic school and church school buses while being used to pick up
or deliver students for attendance at school or extra curricular activities.
      (2)   Vehicles being used for the sole purpose of picking up, delivering
or waiting for handicapped persons. Such vehicles must comply with applicable
provisions of the federal legislation known as the Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA).
      (3)   Motor homes (whether originally designed as such or vehicles
converted to that use) while being used to pick up or deliver or visit
residents of the city. Such motor homes must comply with zoning code
restriction as to being on any residential lot, as set forth in Chapter 1115
and 1119.
      (4)   Trucks whose routes are already regulated under Section
339.02  of these Codified Ordinances.
      (5)   Construction equipment and recreation equipment, together with any
accompanying trailers and the vehicles to tow such trailers.
      (6)   Emergency vehicles and other vehicles used for city activities.
      (7)   Vehicles allowed as special exceptions on the basis of an
application to the City and written approval granted by the City Manager. Such
approval may be granted only if the following standards are met:
         A.   There has been no more than one such special exception granted
for that location within the previous 12 months. This limitation shall not
apply, however, if such vehicles are parked off street and on the destination
site, at least 100 feet back from the nearest public street and if, in the
determination of the City Manager, the parking location is reasonably well
screened from residential properties adjoining each side and the rear of the
destination site, on the same side of the street as that site.
         B.   No commercial purpose is involved on behalf of the Oakwood
residents being visited. If the destination site is not part of a single family
residence property, the purpose of the vehicle trip must be accessory to the
lawful use of that site. Further, the vehicle must be owned or chartered by the
owners or occupants of the destination site.
         C.   The vehicle must comply with restrictions against idling, with
parking regulations, and with all other provisions of the ordinances of this
City.
         D.   There will be no substantial adverse impact to the neighbors or
their properties if the approval is granted.
   (b)   All buses operating within the City shall be restricted to those
streets on which the speed limits are 35 miles per hour plus Patterson Road,
streets within business zoning districts, and Park Avenue from Far Hills to the
business district. Those 35 MPH streets are Far Hills Avenue, Shroyer Road,
Oakwood Avenue between its intersection with Far Hills Avenue and the north
City limit, and West Schantz Avenue.
   (c)   Signs shall be posted at appropriate places as determined by the
Public Safety Director so as to give notice of the bus routes required by this
section.
   (d)   No person shall drive a bus within this City except in compliance with
this section. No person shall arrange for a bus to be operated within this City
unless that person specifically requires that the bus operator comply with this
section.
   (e)   The first violation of this section shall constitute a fourth degree
misdemeanor. Any person or entity who violates this section a second time,
whether the violation is of the same or a different subsection, shall be guilty
of a third degree misdemeanor. If the same person or entity commits a third or
any subsequent violation of this section, whether of the same subsection or
not, the offense shall be a second degree misdemeanor.
(Ord. 4104. Passed 12-23-91; Ord. 4109. Passed 1-6-92.)
339.13 IDLING OF ENGINES IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   (a)   No operator of a truck (as defined in
339.02)  or of a bus (as defined in
339.12 ) may idle the engine of such a vehicle, or permit it to be idled, on
any street or property in a residential area for more than five consecutive
minutes during any span of 60 minutes, or for more than a total of eight
minutes during any such 60-minute span. Construction equipment is excluded from
this prohibition to the extent it is in reasonably continuous usage on or for a
particular site.
   (b)   The first violation of this section shall constitute a fourth degree
misdemeanor. Any person or entity who violates this section a second time,
whether the violation is of the same or a different subsection, shall be guilty
of a third degree misdemeanor. If the same person or entity commits a third or
any subsequent violation of this section, whether of the same subsection or
not, the offense shall be a second degree misdemeanor.
(Ord. 4105. Passed 12-23-91.)
CHAPTER 341
Commercial Drivers
341.01   Definitions.
341.02   Exemptions.
341.03   Prerequisites to operation of a commercial motor vehicle.
341.04   Prohibitions.
341.05   Criminal offenses.
341.06   Employment of drivers of commercial vehicles.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
   See sectional histories for similar State law
   Disqualification - see Ohio R.C. 4506.16
   Suspension or revocation of license - see Ohio R.C. 4507.16
   Warning devices when disabled on freeways - see Ohio R.C. 4513.28
   Arrest notice of driver - see Ohio R.C. 5577.14
   Load limits - see TRAF. Ch.
339
 
 
341.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (a)   "Alcohol concentration" means the concentration of alcohol in a
person's blood, breath or urine. When expressed as a percentage, it means grams
of alcohol per the following:
      (1)   One hundred milliliters of whole blood, blood serum, or blood
plasma;
      (2)   Two hundred ten liters of breath;
      (3)   One hundred milliliters of urine.
   (b)   “Commercial driver’s license” means a license issued in accordance
with Ohio R.C. Chapter 4506 that authorizes an individual to drive a commercial
motor vehicle.
   (c)   "Commercial motor vehicle" means any motor vehicle designed or used to
transport persons or property that meets any of the following qualifications:
      (1)   Any combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight or combined
gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more, provided the gross
vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight rating of the vehicle or vehicles being
towed is in excess of 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   Any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle
weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is not a class A
or class B vehicle, but is designed to transport sixteen or more passengers
including the driver;
      (4)   Any school bus with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight
rating of less than 26,001 pounds that is designed to transport fewer than
sixteen passengers including the driver;
      (5)   Is transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is
required under subpart F of 49 C.F.R. part 172, as amended;
      (6)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is designed to
be operated and to travel on a public street or highway and is considered by
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to be a commercial motor
vehicle, including, but not limited to, a motorized crane, a vehicle whose
function is to pump cement, a rig for drilling wells, and a portable crane.
   (d)   "Controlled substance" means all of the following:
      (1)   Any substance classified as a controlled substance under the
"Controlled Substances Act," 80 Stat. 1242 (1970), 21 U.S.C.A. 802(6), as
amended;
      (2)   Any substance included in schedules I through V of 21 C.F.R. part
1308, as amended;
      (3)   Any drug of abuse.
   (e)   "Disqualification" means any of the following:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation, or cancellation of a person’s
privileges to operate a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privileges to operate a commercial
motor vehicle as the result of a violation of state or local law relating to
motor vehicle traffic control other than parking, vehicle weight, or vehicle
defect violations;
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. 391.
   (f)   "Drive" means to drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor
vehicle.
   (g)   "Driver" means any person who drives, operates or is in physical
control of a commercial motor vehicle or is required to have a commercial
driver's license.
   (h)   "Driver's license" means a license issued by the Ohio Bureau of Motor
Vehicles that authorizes an individual to drive.
   (i)   "Drug of abuse" means any controlled substance, dangerous drug as
defined in Ohio R.C. 4729.01, harmful intoxicant as defined in Ohio R.C.
2925.01, or over- the-counter medication that, when taken in quantities
exceeding the recommended dosage, can result in impairment of judgment or
reflexes.
   (j)   "Employer" means any person, including the Federal Government, any
state and a political subdivision of any state, that owns or leases a
commercial motor vehicle or assigns a person to drive such a motor vehicle.
   (k)   “Endorsement” means an authorization on a person’s commercial driver’s
license that is required to permit the person to operate a specified type of
commercial motor vehicle.
   (l)   “Farm truck” means a truck controlled and operated by a farmer for use
in the transportation to or from a farm, for a distance of not more than one
hundred fifty miles, of products of the farm, including livestock and its
products, poultry and its products, floricultural and horticultural products,
and in the transportation to the farm, from a distance of not more than one
hundred fifty miles, of supplies for the farm, including tile, fence, and every
other thing or commodity used in agricultural, floricultural, horticultural,
livestock and poultry production, and livestock, poultry and other animals and
things used for breeding, feeding, or other purposes connected with the
operation of the farm, when the truck is operated in accordance with this
subsection and is not used in the operations of a motor carrier, as defined in
Ohio R.C. 4923.01.
   (m)   “Fatality” means the death of a person as the result of a motor
vehicle accident occurring not more than three hundred sixty-five days prior to
the date of a death.
   (n)   "Felony" means any offense under federal or state law that is
punishable by death or specifically classified as a felony under the law of
this State, regardless of the penalty that may be imposed.
   (o)   "Foreign jurisdiction" means any jurisdiction other than a state.
   (p)   "Gross vehicle weight rating" means the value specified by the
manufacturer as the maximum loaded weight of a single or a combination vehicle.
The gross vehicle weight rating of a combination vehicle is the gross vehicle
weight rating of the power unit plus the gross vehicle weight rating of each
towed unit.
   (q)   "Hazardous materials" means any material that has been designated as
hazardous under 49 U.S.C. 5103 and is required to be placarded under subpart F
of 49 C.F.R. part 172 or any quantity of a material listed as a select agent or
toxin in 42 C.F.R. part 73, as amended.
   (r)   "Motor vehicle" means a vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or
semitrailer propelled or drawn by mechanical power used on highways, except
that such term does not include a vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer or
semitrailer operated exclusively on a rail.
   (s)   “Out-of-service order” means a declaration by an authorized
enforcement officer of a federal, state, local, Canadian or Mexican
jurisdiction declaring that a driver, commercial motor vehicle or commercial
motor carrier operation is out of service as defined in 49 C.F.R. 390.5.
   (t)   “Public safety vehicle” has the same meaning as in divisions (E)(1)
and (3) of Ohio R.C. 4511.01.
   (u)   “Recreational vehicle” includes every vehicle that is defined as a
recreational vehicle in Ohio R.C. 4501.01 and is used exclusively for purposes
other than engaging in business for profit.
   (v)   “School bus” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4511.01.
   (w)   "State" means a state of the United States and includes the District
of Columbia.
   (x)   “Tester” means a person or entity acting pursuant to a valid agreement
entered into pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4506.09.
   (y)   "United States" means the fifty states and the District of Columbia.
   (z)   "Vehicle" has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4511.01.
      (ORC 4506.01)
341.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   Section 341.02 has been deleted from the Codified Ordinances. Former Ohio
R.C. 4506.02 from which Section 341.02 was derived was repealed by Am. Sub.
H.B. No. 68, effective June 29, 2005. The exemptions are now contained in
Section
341.03.
341.03 PREREQUISITES TO OPERATION OF A COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c) of this section, the
following shall apply:
      (1)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in
this Municipality unless the person holds, and has in the person’s possession,
any of the following:
         A.   A valid commercial driver’s license with proper endorsements for
the motor vehicle being driven, issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, or
by another jurisdiction recognized by this State;
         B.   A valid examiner’s commercial driving permit issued under Ohio
R.C. 4506.13;
         C.   A valid restricted commercial driver’s license and waiver for
farm- related service industries issued under Ohio R.C. 4506.24;
         D.   A valid commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
issued by the Registrar, provided that the person is accompanied by an
authorized state driver’s license examiner or tester or a person who has been
issued and has in the person’s immediate possession a current, valid commercial
driver’s license and who meets the requirements of Ohio R.C. 4506.06(B).
      (2)   No person who has been a resident of this State for thirty days or
longer shall drive a commercial motor vehicle under the authority of a
commercial driver’s license issued by another jurisdiction.
   (b)   Nothing in subsection (a) of this section applies to any qualified
person when engaged in the operation of any of the following:
      (1)   A farm truck;
      (2)   Fire equipment for a fire department, volunteer or nonvolunteer
fire company, fire district, or joint fire district;
      (3)   A public safety vehicle used to provide transportation or emergency
medical service for ill or injured persons;
      (4)   A recreational vehicle;
      (5)   A commercial motor vehicle within the boundaries of an eligible
unit of local government, if the person is employed by the eligible unit of
local government and is operating the commercial motor vehicle for the purpose
of removing snow or ice from a roadway by plowing, sanding, or salting, but
only if either the employee who holds a commercial driver’s license issued
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4506 and ordinarily operates a commercial motor vehicle
for these purposes is unable to operate the vehicle, or the employing eligible
unit of local government determines that a snow or ice emergency exists that
requires additional assistance;
      (6)   A vehicle operated for military purposes by any member or uniformed
employee of the armed forces of the United States or their reserve components,
including the Ohio national guard. This exception does not apply to United
States reserved technicians.
      (7)   A commercial motor vehicle that is operated for nonbusiness
purposes. “Operated for nonbusiness purposes” means that the commercial motor
vehicle is not used in commerce as “commerce” is defined in 49 C.F.R. 383.5, as
amended, and is not regulated by the Public Utilities Commission pursuant to
Ohio R.C. Chapter 4905, 4921, or 4923.
      (8)   A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for the transportation
of goods and not persons, while that motor vehicle is being used for the
occasional transportation of personal property by individuals not for
compensation and not in the furtherance of a commercial enterprise.
      (9)   A police SWAT team vehicle.
      (10)   A police vehicle used to transport prisoners.
   (c)   Nothing contained in subsection (b)(5) of this section shall be
construed as preempting or superseding any law, rule, or regulation of this
State concerning the safe operation of commercial motor vehicles.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC 4506.03)
341.04 PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having in the person’s
possession or otherwise under the person’s control more than one valid driver's
license issued by this State, any other state or by a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this Municipality
in violation of an out-of-service order, while the person’s driving privilege
is suspended, revoked or canceled, or while the person is subject to
disqualification;
      (3)   Drive a motor vehicle on a highway in this Municipality under
authority of a commercial driver's license issued by another state or a foreign
jurisdiction, after having been a resident of this State for thirty days or
longer.
      (4)    Knowingly give false information in any application or
certification required by Ohio R.C. 4506.07;
      (5)    Knowingly provide false statements or engage in any fraudulent act
related to testing for a commercial driver’s license as required in Ohio R.C.
4506.09.
   (b)   The Municipality shall give every conviction occurring out of this
state and notice of which was received by the state Department of Public Safety
after December 31, 1989, full faith and credit and treat it for sanctioning
purposes under this chapter as though the conviction had
occurred in this state. (ORC 4506.04(A), (B))
   (c)   No person shall drive any commercial motor vehicle for which an
endorsement is required under Ohio R.C. 4506.12 unless the proper endorsement
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit. No person shall drive a commercial motor
vehicle in violation of a restriction established under Ohio R.C. 4506.12 that
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit. (ORC 4506.12(I))
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)    Whoever violates subsection (a)(4) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition, the provisions
of Ohio R.C. 4507.19 apply.
      (3)    Whoever violates subsection (a)(5) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition, the provisions
of Ohio R.C. 4507.19 apply. (ORC 4506.04(C))
      (4)    A.   Whoever violates subsection (c) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   The offenses established under subsection (c) of this section are
strict liability offenses and Ohio R.C. 2901.20 does not apply. The designation
of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
whether in this section or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code, is not a strict liability offense. (ORC 4506.12(J))
341.05 CRIMINAL OFFENSES.
   (a)   No person who holds a commercial driver’s license, or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or who operates a motor vehicle
for which a commercial driver’s license or permit is required shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having a measureable or
detectable amount of alcohol or of a controlled substance in the person’s
blood, breath or urine;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of four-hundredths of one per cent or more by whole blood or
breath;
      (3)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of forty-eight-thousandths of one per cent or more by blood serum
or blood plasma;
      (4)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of fifty-six-thousandths of one per cent or more by urine;
      (5)   Drive a motor vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance;
      (6)   Drive a motor vehicle in violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.19 or a
municipal OVI ordinance as defined in Ohio R.C. 4511.181;
      (7)   Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony;
      (8)   Refuse to submit to a test under Ohio R.C. 4506.17 or 4511.191;
      (9)   Operate a commercial motor vehicle while the person’s commercial
driver’s license or permit or other commercial driving privileges are revoked,
suspended, canceled, or disqualified;
      (10)   Cause a fatality through the negligent operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, including, but not limited to, the offenses of aggravated
vehicular homicide, vehicular homicide, and vehicular manslaughter;
      (11)   Fail to stop after an accident in violation of Sections
335.12 to
335.14;
      (12)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle in violation of any provision of
Ohio R.C. 4511.61 to 4511.63 or any federal or local law or ordinance
pertaining to railroad-highway grade crossings;
      (13)   Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony involving the
manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance as defined
in Ohio R.C. 3719.01 or the possession with intent to manufacture, distribute,
or dispose a controlled substance.
      (14)   Use a commercial motor vehicle in the commission of a violation of
Ohio R.C. 2905.32 or any other substantially equivalent offense established
under federal law or the laws of another state.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
   (c)   The offense established under subsection (a) of this section are
strict liability offenses and Ohio R.C. 2901.20 does not apply. The designation
of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
is not a strict liability offense.
(ORC 4506.15)
341.06 EMPLOYMENT OF DRIVERS OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (a)   Each employer shall require every applicant for employment as a driver
of a commercial motor vehicle to provide the applicant’s employment history for
the ten years preceding the date the employment application is submitted to the
prospective employer. The following information shall be submitted:
      (1)   A list of the names and addresses of the applicant’s previous
employers for which the applicant was the operator of a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (2)   The dates the applicant was employed by these employers;
      (3)   The reason for leaving each of these employers.
   (b)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize any driver employed by
the employer to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which any
of the following apply:
      (1)   The driver's commercial driver's license is suspended, revoked or
canceled by any state or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   The driver has lost the privilege to drive, or currently is
disqualified from driving, a commercial motor vehicle in any state or foreign
jurisdiction;
      (3)   The driver, the commercial motor vehicle the driver is driving, or
the motor carrier operation is subject to an out-of-service order in any state
or foreign jurisdiction;
      (4)   The driver has more than one driver's license.
   (c)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in violation of Section
341.05.
   (d)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle if the driver does not hold a valid, current
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit bearing the proper class or endorsements for the vehicle. No
employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of the restrictions on the driver’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit.
   (e)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (a), (b) or (d) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates subsection (c) of this section may be assessed a
fine not to exceed ten thousand dollars. (ORC 4506.20)
CHAPTER 343
Interfering With Buses
343.01   Offenses involving electric trolley or motor buses.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
See Bus Routes in TRAF. CODE
339.12
 
   
343.01 OFFENSES INVOLVING ELECTRIC TROLLEY OR MOTOR BUSES.
   (a)   As used in this section "bus" means any electric trolley or motor bus
being operated within the City upon a fixed route and according to a published
schedule.
   (b)   No person shall commit any of the following offenses:
      (1)   Drive or stop any vehicle, except a public safety vehicle in the
discharge of its duties, in such manner as willfully to impede the movement of
a bus, except at such time as is reasonably necessary to receive or discharge
passengers. No provisions herein shall give any vehicle, other than a bus or a
public safety vehicle, the right to stop in a designated bus loading zone.
      (2)   Disengage any trolley pole or poles of an electric trolley bus from
the overhead wires, or throw any obstruction over the overhead wires or
appurtenances used in the operation of an electric trolley bus, except a police
officer in the discharge of his duties, or a duly authorized agent of the
transit company or an employee of the transit company while in the performance
of the company's business.
      (3)   Throw a stone or other harmful object at a bus, shoot a missile at
a bus or knowingly commit any similar act which interferes in any way with the
safe and expeditious movement of a bus, except as required by law.
      (4)   Board a bus except by the front door, unless authorized to use
another method of entrance on the specific occasion by an employee of the
company operating the bus.
      (5)   Expectorate in or upon any bus.
      (6)   Fail or refuse to pay the lawfully required fare upon boarding a
bus, when such fare is demanded by the operator of the bus.
      (7)   Smoke tobacco in any form, or carry lighted or burning tobacco in
any form on a bus, other than on a bus which is then under charter.
   (c)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
TITLE SEVEN - Parking
Chap.
351. Parking Generally.
CHAPTER 351
Parking Generally
351.01   Removal of unattended vehicle obstructing traffic, or a safety hazard.
351.02   Snow emergency; removal of vehicles.
351.03   Registered owner prima-facie liable for unlawful parking.
351.04   Parking prohibitions.
351.05   Parallel parking.
351.06   Angle parking.
351.07   Selling, washing or repairing vehicle upon roadway.
351.08   Condition when vehicle left unattended.
351.09   Boarding or leaving stopping vehicles.
351.10   Parking of trucks and commercial vehicles.
351.11   Bus stops and taxicab stands -- no parking.
351.12   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions.
351.13   Moving from one parking space to another.
351.14   Emergency street repairs.
351.15   18-hour parking limit.
351.16   Oversized vehicle parked on residential streets -- 4-hour limit.
351.17   Trailers, towed vehicles parked on streets, limited hours.
351.18   Trailers, towed vehicles parked on private property, wheels chocked.
351.19   Park prohibitions on private property.
351.20   Parking for handicapped persons.
351.21   Fire lanes, parking prohibited.
351.22   Payment of fine without court appearance.
351.99   Penalty.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
   See sectional histories for similar State law
   Owner nonliability, lease defense - see Ohio R.C. 4511.071
   Police may remove ignition key from unattended vehicle - see TRAF.
303.03
   Parking near stopped fire apparatus - see TRAF.
331.27
   Lights on parked or stopped vehicles - see TRAF.
337.09
 
 
351.01 REMOVAL OF UNATTENDED VEHICLE OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC, OR A SAFETY HAZARD.
   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any street,
bridge, causeway, or in any tunnel, where such vehicle constitutes an
obstruction to traffic or safety hazard, such officer may provide for the
removal of such vehicle to an approved garage or other place of safety, as
provided in Section
303.08.
(Ord. 3032. Passed 3-10-73; Ord. 3294. Passed 10-4-82.)
351.02 SNOW EMERGENCY; REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   The City Manager shall have authority to declare a "snow emergency" based
upon part or all of this city receiving snowfalls which endanger or threaten to
endanger the health, safety or welfare of persons or property and in the
further event any police officer finds an unattended vehicle parked in whole or
in part upon any public street or highway in such a manner that the vehicle,
either itself or together with adjoining snow, constitutes an obstruction to
snow removal equipment or other vehicles or equipment of this City, the police
officer may provide for the removal of such vehicle to an approved garage or
other place of safety, as provided in Section
303.08, after compliance with the following procedures:
   (a)   One hour must have passed after the declaration of such a snow
emergency before removal of any such vehicle;
   (b)   The City must have made the following reasonable efforts to notify the
owner of such vehicle that it is subject to immediate removal;
      (1)   Attempt to obtain the name and address of the vehicle owner through
the appropriate state agencies.
      (2)   If the vehicle is registered to an address in the 937 area code,
attempt to notify the owner by telephone so long as long distance expenses are
not incurred. (Cross references: See
339.07 as to safety procedure in towing a vehicle and
351.14  as to emergency, no parking areas.)
351.03 REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA-FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   If any vehicle is found upon a street, highway, alley, park or other public
grounds of the City, in violation of any provision of this Traffic Code
regulating the stopping or standing or parking of vehicles, and the identity of
the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name such vehicle
is registered shall be held prima-facie responsible for such violation.
351.04 PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this Traffic
Code, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic control
device, in any of the following places:
   (a)   On a sidewalk, except a bicycle.
   (b)   In front of a public or private driveway, or within 5 feet of either
side of any such driveway;
   (c)   Within an intersection;
   (d)   Within 10 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (e)   On a crosswalk;
   (f)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
   (g)   Within thirty feet of, and upon the approach to, any yield sign, stop
sign or highway traffic signal;
   (h)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic control device;
   (i)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when such
standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (j)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street (double parking);
   (k)   At any place where curbs are painted yellow for purposes of
prohibiting parking;
   (l)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping, standing or parking or at
any place in excess of the maximum time limited by signs;
   (m)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle. (Cross reference: See other
sections of this chapter for additional parking prohibitions.) (A.O.)
   (n)   Upon a curb. (Ord. 4740. Passed 11-7-11.)
   (o)   Upon any lawn, grass, or landscaped area unless the area is connected
with the driveway, and is graded and has a paved surface of granulated
material, asphalt, Portland cement, concrete, brick or decorative stone, of
suitable load-bearing construction as required under the Oakwood Zoning
Ordinance. The Public Safety Department may permit a motor vehicle to be parked
temporarily in violation of this section for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Moving into or from a residence;
      (2)   Family gatherings;
      (3)   For car shows or other permitted temporary uses;
      (4)   When the vehicle is an emergency vehicle being used during an
emergency;
      (5)   When the vehicle is a construction vehicle being used for
remodeling, repair, or construction work at the property; or
      (6)   When necessary to protect the public health, safety or general
welfare.
351.05 PARALLEL PARKING.
   (a)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the curb side wheels of such
vehicle parallel with and not more than 12 inches from the curb, unless it is
impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop shall be as
close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary to discharge and
receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise.
   (b)   (1)   A.   Except as provided in subsection (b)(1)B. hereof, no
vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the vehicle facing
in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the road or
highway.
   B.   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into an angled
parking space so that when the motorcycle is parked it is facing in a direction
other than the direction of travel on the side of the road or highway.
      (2)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into a parking
space that is located on the side of, and parallel to, a road or highway. The
motorcycle may face any direction when so parked. Not more than two motorcycles
at a time shall be parked in a parking space as described in subsection (c)(2)
of this section irrespective of whether or not the space is metered.
   (c)   Notwithstanding any provision of this Code, trucks and other equipment
being used in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair, or
removal of facilities near, on, over or under a street may stop, stand or park
where necessary in order to perform such work, provided a flagman is on duty,
or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the state
director of transportation.
351.06 ANGLE PARKING.
   Upon streets where angle parking is permitted, no person shall stop, stand
or park a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb so designated and so that
the front of the vehicle is facing the curb, against which it is parked. (Ord.
2970. Passed 7-12-76.)
351.07 SELLING, WASHING OR REPAIRING VEHICLE UPON ROADWAY.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway for the
principal purpose of:
   (a)   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
   (b)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency;
   (c)   Advertising an article, product or service.
351.08 CONDITION WHEN VEHICLE LEFT UNATTENDED.
   (a)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to
stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the engine,
locking of the ignition and removing the key from the ignition of a motor
vehicle do not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A motor vehicle that is parked on residential property;
      (2)   A motor vehicle that is locked, regardless of where it is parked;
      (3)   An emergency vehicle;
      (4)   A public safety vehicle.
351.09 BOARDING OR LEAVING STOPPED VEHICLES.
   No person shall enter or leave or open the door of a parked or stopped motor
vehicle on the side of such vehicle next to a lane or line of moving traffic
unless such person has exercised due care that the movement can be made without
causing the driver of a passing motor vehicle to suddenly stop or turn to
swerve from a direct course of travel, or to become involved in an accident or
collision due to such movement.
351.10 PARKING OF TRUCKS AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   No person shall stand or park any truck (or other vehicle used or equipped
to be used for a commercial purpose) upon a street at any time except for the
minimum period required in the usual course of business for making delivery of
or loading merchandise for delivery.
351.11 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS -- NO PARKING.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of
and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone, and then only for a period not to exceed 3 minutes, if such
stopping is not prohibited by posted signs.
   (b)   The operator of a bus shall not stop, stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place (for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or
their baggage) other than at a bus stop so designated and posted as such,
except in case of an emergency. This provision does not apply to school buses.
   (c)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop on a public street in
such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage
shall be in a position with the right front wheel of such vehicle not further
than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so
as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
   (d)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated and posted
as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking provisions at
any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers.
351.12 PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, other than an
alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less
than 10 feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic
control signal.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading, and then
only for a period of not to exceed 30 minutes.
351.13 MOVING FROM ONE PARKING SPACE TO ANOTHER.
   No person shall move a motor vehicle from a parking space on any street
where parking is restricted to a limited period of time, directly to, or for
the purpose of moving it to, another parking space (within one block or 500
feet of the first parking space, whichever is greater) on the same street or on
any other street on which parking of vehicles is restricted to a limited period
of time, and there allow such motor vehicle to remain parked for a period of
time longer than the unexpired parking time remaining in the original parking
space.
351.14 EMERGENCY STREET REPAIRS.
   (a)   Whenever an emergency condition requires emergency repairs to be made
on any street, portion of street or to any utilities in, over or along any
street, and the City Manager determines that such condition requires such
street or portion of street be cleared and caused to remain clear of parked
vehicles, the City Manager is authorized to designate such area as a "no
parking area," until such emergency condition is eliminated, by the placing of
appropriate signs to such effect along such street or portion of street.
   No owner or operator of any vehicle shall permit it to park or stand upon
any such street or portion of street within such area designated for no
parking.
   (b)   If any vehicle is found parked in violation of the provisions of
subsection (a) hereof, a police officer shall remove such vehicle or cause the
same to be removed as provided in Section
303.08.
351.15 18-HOUR PARKING LIMIT.
   No person shall park a motor vehicle on the streets of the city in excess of
18 consecutive hours.
   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to permit parking of motor
vehicles where or when prohibited by other sections of the Codified Ordinances
of the city, by statutes of the state, or by traffic regulations issued by the
City Manager under Section
305.03.
351.16 OVERSIZED VEHICLE PARKED ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS -- 4-HOUR LIMIT.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, an "oversized vehicle" is defined as
any trailer, boat, camper or self-propelled vehicle which at any point exceeds
any of the following dimensions: 7 feet wide, or 20 feet long, or 7 feet high
measured from ground level plus an additional 1½ feet of height for
accessories, but no antenna shall be measured in determining such height.
   (b)   No person shall park an oversized vehicle for more than 4 consecutive
hours on the residential area of any street of this City.
   (c)   For the purpose of this section, the term "residential area" shall
mean that portion of a street which is part of, or which abuts on either side,
a residential zoning district.
   (d)   The prohibitions of this section shall not apply to parking that is
necessary in connection with delivering or picking up furniture or other
materials in such residential district or in connection with construction,
development, installation or repair work in such residential district and for
which any required permits have been obtained.
   (e)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to permit parking where
otherwise prohibited by other sections of the Codified Ordinances of this City,
by the statutes of the State of Ohio, or by traffic regulations issued by the
City Manager under Section
305.03.
(Ord. 3103. Passed 10-15-79.)
351.17 TRAILERS, TOWED VEHICLES PARKED ON STREETS, LIMITED HOURS.
   (a)   No trailer nor any other vehicle intended to be towed behind a motor
vehicle may be parked for more than 4 consecutive hours on the residential area
of any street of this City unless it is attached to such motor vehicle.
   (b)   No trailer nor any other vehicle intended to be towed behind a motor
vehicle may be parked upon any street after sundown and before sunrise, whether
or not attached to such a motor vehicle, unless such trailer or other vehicle
is equipped with at least two reflectors or two operating lights and in an area
sufficiently lighted so as to make it visible at a distance of 300 feet.
   (c)   No trailer nor other vehicle may be parked upon any street, while not
attached to a motor vehicle, unless at least one wheel on each side has been
chocked both in front and behind such wheel.
   (d)   For the purpose of this section, the term "residential area" shall
mean that portion of a street which is part of, or which abuts on either side,
a residential zoning district.
   (e)   The prohibition of this section shall not apply to parking that is
necessary in connection with delivering or picking up furniture or other
materials in such residential district or in connection with construction,
development, installation or repair work in such residential district for which
any required permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 3294. Passed 10-4-82; Ord. 3608. Passed 12-8-86.)
351.18 TRAILERS, TOWED VEHICLES PARKED ON PRIVATE PROPERTY, WHEELS CHOCKED.
   No trailer nor any other vehicle intended to be towed behind a motor vehicle
may be parked upon any private property, while not attached to such motor
vehicle, unless at least one wheel on each side has been chocked to keep it
from moving toward the adjoining street.
(Ord. 3609. Passed 12-8-86.)
351.19 PARKING PROHIBITIONS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   If an owner of private property posts on that property, in a conspicuous
manner, a prohibition against parking there or conditions and regulations under
which parking is permitted on that property, no person shall do either of the
following:
   (a)   Park a vehicle on the property without the owner's consent; or
   (b)   Park a vehicle on the property in violation of any conditional
regulation posted by the owner. (Cross reference: ORC 4513.60, Notice
Requirements for Private Tow-Away Zones.)
351.20 PARKING FOR HANDICAPPED PERSON.
   (a)   Accessible parking locations and privileges for persons with
disabilities that limit or impair the ability to walk shall be provided and
designated by all political subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and
instrumentalities thereof at all offices and facilities where parking is
provided, whether owned, rented, or leased, and at all publicly owned parking
garages. The locations shall be designated through the posting of an elevated
sign, whether permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the international
symbol of access and shall be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators,
and ramps. All elevated signs posted in accordance with this division and Ohio
R.C. 3781.111(C) shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance
from the ground to the bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five
feet. If a new sign or a replacement sign designating an accessible parking
location is posted on or after October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed
upon the surface of that sign or affixed next to the designating sign a notice
that states the fine applicable for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in
the designated accessible parking location if the motor vehicle is not legally
entitled to be parked in that location.
   (b)   (1)   A.   No person shall stop, stand or park any motor vehicle at
accessible parking locations provided under subsection (e) of this section, or
at accessible clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately
owned parking lots, parking garages, or other parking areas and designated in
accordance with that division, unless one of the following applies:
            1.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or accessible license plates;
or
            2.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability and is displaying a parking card or accessible
license plates.
         B.   Any motor vehicle that is parked in an accessible marked parking
location in violation of subsections (f)(1)A.1. or (f)(1)A.2. of this section
may be towed or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law
enforcement agency of the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or
removed shall not be released to its owner until the owner presents proof of
ownership of the motor vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally
imposed by
the municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor vehicle is
a leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the lessee
presents proof that the person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and pays all
towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for towing and
storing motor vehicles.
         C.   If a person is charged with a violation of subsections (f)(1)A.1.
or (f)(1)A.2. of this section, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that
the person suffered an injury not more than seventy-two hours prior to the time
the person was issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the injury,
the person meets at least one of the criteria contained in Ohio R.C. 4503.44(A)
(1).
      (2)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle in an area
that is commonly known as an access aisle, which area is marked by diagonal
strips and is located immediately adjacent to an accessible parking location
provided under subsection (e) of this section or at an accessible clearly
marked parking location provided in or on a privately owned parking lot,
parking garage, or other parking area and designated in accordance with that
division.
   (c)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or accessible license plates, or when
a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a person with a
disability, and is displaying a parking card or accessible license plates, the
motor vehicle is permitted to park for a period of two hours in excess of the
legal parking period permitted by local authorities, except where local
ordinances or police rules provide otherwise or where the vehicle is parked in
such a manner as to be clearly a traffic hazard.
   (d)   No owner of an office, facility, or parking garage where accessible
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with subsection
(e) of this section shall fail to properly mark the accessible parking
locations in accordance with that division or fail to maintain the markings of
the accessible locations, including the erection and maintenance of the fixed
or movable signs.
   (e)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or accessible license
plates if the parking card or accessible license plates, issued to the person
or organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or
revoked.
   (f)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Accessible license plates” and “removable windshield placard” mean
any license plates, standard removable windshield placard, permanent removable
windshield placard or temporary removable windshield placard issued under Ohio
R.C. 4503.41 or 4503.44, and also mean any substantially equivalent license
plates or removable windshield placard issued by a state, district, country, or
sovereignty.
      (2)   “Person with a disability” means any person who has lost the use of
one or both legs or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf, or unable to move
without the aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose mobility is restricted by
a permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary or other disabling condition.
      (3)   “Person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to
walk” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4503.44.
351.21 FIRE LANES, PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   The City Manager, upon the advice of the director of public safety of
this city and/or under the provisions of the Fire Code of this City, is hereby
authorized to establish fire lanes upon public ways or upon private property
regularly used by vehicular traffic. In addition, the City Manager may adopt
rules and regulations pertaining to those fire lanes pursuant to his authority
to adopt traffic regulations under Section
305.03.
 
   (b)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle within an area
designated as a fire lane as referred to in paragraph (a) above, other than an
emergency or public safety vehicle in connection with some form of fire duty.
 
   (c)   Whenever a police officer finds a vehicle unattended in any fire lane
designated as referred to in paragraph (a) above, the officer may provide for
the removal of such vehicle under the provisions of Section
303.08.
351.22 PAYMENT OF FINE WITHOUT COURT APPEARANCE.
   Any person who is issued a traffic ticket for a violation of any section of
this chapter for which a fine is provided may pay that fine in the manner
described on the traffic ticket. Such payment shall be deemed a plea of guilty,
waiver of court appearance and acknowledgement of conviction of the alleged
violation. Payment of the fine need not be accepted when laws or ordinances
prescribe that a certain number of offenses shall require court appearance.
(Ord. 4480. Passed 1-15-01.)
351.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates any provision of Sections
351.03 through
351.07 or of Section
351.13 shall be fined not more than $30.00 if payment is made within 72 hours
of the date and time of the issuance of the citation for the parking violation.
If payment is not made within 72 hours of the date and time of the issuance of
the citation, the fine shall be $60.00.
 
   (b)   Whoever violates Section
351.20(b)(1) shall be fined $250.00. An offender who violates Section
351.20(b)(1) of this section shall be fined not more than $100.00 if the
offender, prior to sentencing, proves either of the following to the
satisfaction of the court:
      (1)   At the time of the violation of Section
351.20(b)(1) of this chapter, the offender or the person for whose transport
the motor vehicle was being operated had been issued a removable windshield
placard that then was valid or special license plates that then were valid but
the offender or the person neglected to display the placard or license plates
as described in Section
351.20(b)(1)A. of this chapter.
      (2)   At the time of the violation of Section
351.20(b)(1) of this chapter, the offender or the person for whose transport
the motor vehicle was being operated had been issued a parking card that then
was valid or special handicapped license plates that then were valid but the
offender or the person neglected to display the card or license plates as
described in Section
351.20(b)(1)B. of this chapter.
   
   (c)   Unless a different penalty is provided elsewhere in this chapter,
whoever violates any other section of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$150.00.
(Ord. 4739. Passed 11-7-11.)
TITLE NINE - Pedestrians, Bicycles and Motorcycles
Chap.
371. Pedestrians.
Chap.
373. Bicycles.
Chap.
375. Motorcycles, Motor Bicycles, Snowmobiles,
               and Other Miscellaneous Vehicles.
CHAPTER 371
Pedestrians
371.01   Right of way in crosswalk.
371.02   Right of way of blind person.
371.03   Crossing roadway outside crosswalk; diagonal crossings at
intersections.
371.04   Moving upon right half of crosswalk.
371.05   Pedestrians walking, running on streets.
371.06   Use of highway for soliciting; riding on outside of vehicles.
371.07   Right of way on sidewalk.
371.08   Yielding to public safety vehicle.
371.09   Walking on highway while under the influence.
371.10   On bridges or railroad crossings.
371.11   Persons operating motorized wheelchairs.
371.12   Electric personal assistive mobility devices.
371.13   Non-commercial scooters, skateboards, and inline roller skates.
371.14   Operation of personal delivery device on sidewalks and crosswalks.
371.15   Low-speed micromobility devices.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
      See sectional histories for similar State law
      Pedestrian defined - see TRAF.
301.54
      Pedestrian prohibited on freeways - see TRAF.
303.06
      Obedience to traffic control devices - see TRAF.
313.01,
313.03
      Pedestrian control signals - see TRAF.
 313.05
 
 
371.01 RIGHT OF WAY IN CROSSWALK.
   (a)   When highway traffic signals are not in place, not in operation or are
not clearly assigning the right of way, the driver of a vehicle shall yield the
right of way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, or if required
by Section
313.09, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the
pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling,
or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the
roadway as to be in danger.
   (b)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (c)   Subsection (a) hereof does not apply under the conditions stated in
Section
371.03(b).
   (d)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (e)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (f)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.46)
371.02 RIGHT OF WAY OF BLIND PERSON.
   (a)   As used in this section "blind person" or "blind pedestrian" means a
person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses or visual acuity greater than 20/200 but with a limitation in
the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field subtends
an angle no greater then twenty degrees.
   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right of way to every blind
pedestrian guided by a guide dog, or carrying a cane which is predominately
white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (b)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley or other public thoroughfare shall carry a white metallic cane,
with or without a red tip.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.47)
371.03 CROSSING ROADWAY OUTSIDE CROSSWALK; DIAGONAL CROSSINGS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (a)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (b)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right of way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (c)   Between adjacent intersections at which highway traffic signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (d)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic control devices; and, when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (e)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
   (f)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.48)
371.04 MOVING UPON RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   (a)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.49)
371.05 PEDESTRIANS WALKING, RUNNING ON STREETS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to walk, jog or run upon the
roadway portion (excepting any crosswalks) of any of the following streets:
      (1)   Far Hills Avenue from the north corporate limits to the south
corporate limits of this City;
      (2)   Schantz Avenue from Oakwood Avenue to the west corporate limits of
this City;
      (3)   Patterson Road from its terminus at Far Hills Avenue to the east
corporate limits of this City;
      (4)   Shroyer Road from the north corporate limits to the south corporate
limits of this City; and
      (5)   Oakwood Avenue from its intersection with Far Hills Avenue to the
north corporate limits of this City.
   (b)   Whether or not a sidewalk is provided and whether or not its use is
practicable, any pedestrian may walk, jog or run along any non-crosswalk
portion of a roadway except those prohibited in (a) above, but only in
compliance with the following conditions:
      (1)   Every pedestrian must proceed as close as practicable to the curb
to his or her left and must face vehicular traffic using the side of the
roadway adjacent to that curb.
      (2)   All pedestrians must proceed in single file when traffic is
approaching from either the front or the rear, subject to the exception that
such a single file need be maintained on divided highways only when traffic is
approaching from the front of the pedestrians.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in Section
313.03 (relating to rights-of-way at intersections controlled by traffic
lights) and in Section
371.01 (pedestrian on crosswalk has right-of-way), every pedestrian upon a
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
      (4)   During the time from one-half hour before sunset to one-half hour
after sunrise, and at any other times when there are unfavorable atmospheric
conditions (including insufficient natural light) which prevent persons from
being discernable clearly at a distance of 300 feet, every pedestrian shall
either:
         A.   Wear between neck and waist material such as a vest, sash band,
or tape which is reflectorized so as to be discernable clearly at night at a
distance of 300 feet; or
         B.   Vacate the non-crosswalk roadway immediately upon the approach of
a vehicle from the front of the pedestrian, and also vacate such roadway at any
intersection or driveway where a vehicle is approaching the roadway, in each
instance remaining off such roadway until the vehicle has passed the pedestrian
(or vice-versa).
   (c)   Regardless of compliance with the above conditions, no pedestrian may
walk, jog or run along any roadway if such conduct would tend to endanger
(because of traffic conditions, snow or ice on the roadway, or because of the
grade, layout or visibility situation of the roadway) any persons or property
in the use of such roadway. (Cross reference: See ORC 4511.50.)
(Ord. 3123. Passed 3-17-80.)
   (d)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
371.06 USE OF HIGHWAY FOR SOLICITING; RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLES.
   (a)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (b)   No person shall stand on the roadway portion of any street in the
business district, or on any portion of the street right-of-way in any other
zone (except for selling newspapers), for the purpose of soliciting employment,
business, or contributions from the occupant of any vehicle. (See Business
Regulations
725.01  and
725.02  for same rule.)
   (c)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments.
   (d)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustment.
   (e)   No driver of a truck shall permit any person to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of his vehicle while the tailgate is unlatched.
This does not apply to street maintenance workers under authority of, or a
contract with, the City.
   (f)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
371.07 RIGHT OF WAY ON SIDEWALK.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian
on a sidewalk.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.441)
371.08 YIELDING TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (a)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle as stated in
Section
331.21, every pedestrian shall yield the right of way to the public safety
vehicle.
   (b)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.452)
371.09 WALKING ON HIGHWAY WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (a)   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol, any drug of abuse,
or any combination of them, to a degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard
shall not walk or be upon a highway.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.481)
371.10 ON BRIDGES OR RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   (a)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (b)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.511)
371.11 PERSONS OPERATING MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Former Ohio R.C. 4511.491, from which Section 371.11 was
derived was repealed by Amended Substitute House Bill No. 54, effective June
30, 2025.)
371.12 ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (a)   (1)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices, as defined in Ohio
R.C. 4501.01, may be operated on the public streets, highways, sidewalks, and
paths and portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in
accordance with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this Traffic Code that by their nature are applicable to an electric personal
assistive mobility device apply to the device and the person operating it
whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk, or path or
upon any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (b)   No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         A.   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than five hundred feet;
         B.   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from one hundred feet to six hundred feet when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or highway that has
an established speed limit of fifty-five miles per hour or more;
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path;
      (6)   If under eighteen years of age, operate the device unless wearing a
protective helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened;
      (7)   If under sixteen years of age, operate the device unless, during
the operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible supervision of
another person who is eighteen years of age or older and is responsible for the
immediate care of the person under sixteen years of age.
   (c)   No person who is under fourteen years of age shall operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
   (d)   No person shall distribute or sell an electric personal assistive
mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a written statement that is
substantially equivalent to the following: “WARNING: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT - HELMET,
WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS, AND KNEE PADS”. (ORC 4511.512)
   (e)   “Electric personal assistive mobility device” means a self-balancing
two non-tandem wheeled device that is designed to transport only one person,
has an electric propulsion system of an average of seven hundred fifty watts,
and when ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs one hundred
seventy pounds has a maximum speed of less than twenty miles per hour. (ORC
4501.01)
   (f)   Whoever violates subsection (b) or (c) hereof is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   The offender shall be fined ten dollars ($10.00).
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of division (B) or (C) of Ohio R.C. 4511.512 or a substantially
similar municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to imposing the fine
required under subsection (f)(1) hereof, shall do one of the following:
         A.   Order the impoundment for not less than one day but not more than
thirty days of the electric personal assistive mobility device that was
involved in the current violation of that section. The court shall order the
device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the court and
may assess storage fees of not more than five dollars ($5.00) per day, provided
the total storage, processing, and release fees assessed against the offender
or the device in connection with the device’s impoundment or subsequent release
shall not exceed fifty dollars ($50.00).
         B.   If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
subsection (f)(2)A. hereof, issue an order prohibiting the offender from
operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one day but not more than
thirty days.
   (g)   Whoever violates subsection (d) hereof is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4511.512)
371.13 NON-COMMERCIAL SCOOTERS, SKATEBOARDS, AND INLINE ROLLER SKATES.
   Scooters, skateboards, and inline roller skates, as defined in Section
311.05(a)(2), may be operated on public rights-of-way within the City of
Oakwood, subject to the following requirements:
   (a)   Pedestrian Status When Operated on Public Streets or Alleys. The
operation of a scooter, skateboard, or pair of inline roller skates on public
streets or alleys shall be deemed to be pedestrian in nature. All requirements
and prohibitions set forth in Section
371.04 and
371.05 for persons walking, jogging, or running on public streets and alleys
shall apply to such operation.
   (b)   Traffic Control Devices. Notwithstanding the pedestrian status
described in subsection (a) above, the operator of any scooter, skateboard, or
pair of inline roller skates on public streets or alleys shall obey all traffic
control devices applicable to motor vehicles.
   (c)   Sidewalk Use. When on a public sidewalk, no person operating a
scooter, skateboard, or pair of inline roller skates shall operate the same
recklessly, nor fail to yield the right of way to pedestrians on foot.
      (Ord. 4928. Passed 1-4-21.)
371.14 OPERATION OF PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE ON SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Eligible entity” means a corporation, partnership, association,
firm, sole proprietorship, or other entity engaged in business.
      (2)   “Personal delivery device” means an electrically powered device to
which all of the following apply:
         A.   The device is intended primarily to transport property and cargo
on sidewalks and crosswalks.
         B.   The device weighs less than 250 pounds excluding any property or
cargo being carried in the device.
         C.   The device has a maximum speed of ten miles per hour.
         D.   The device is equipped with technology that enables the operation
of the device with active control or monitoring by a person, without active
control or monitoring by a person, or both with or without active control or
monitoring by a person.
      (3)   “Personal delivery device operator” means an agent of an eligible
entity who exercises direct physical control over, or monitoring of, the
navigation and operation of a personal delivery device. The phrase does not
include, with respect to a delivery or other service rendered by a personal
delivery device, the person who requests the delivery or service. The phrase
also does not include a person who only arranges for and dispatches a personal
delivery device for a delivery or other service.
   (b)   An eligible entity may operate a personal delivery device on sidewalks
and crosswalks so long as all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)    The personal delivery device is operated in accordance with all
regulations, if any, established by each local authority within which the
personal delivery device is operated.
      (2)    A personal delivery device operator is actively controlling or
monitoring the navigation and operation of the personal delivery device.
      (3)    The eligible entity maintains an insurance policy that includes
general liability coverage of not less than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) for damages arising from the operation of the personal delivery
device by the eligible entity and any agent of the eligible entity.
      (4)    The device is equipped with all of the following:
         A.   A marker that clearly identifies the name and contact information
of the eligible entity operating the personal delivery device and a unique
identification number;
         B.   A braking system that enables the personal delivery device to
come to a controlled stop;
         C.   If the personal delivery device is being operated between sunset
and sunrise, a light on both the front and rear of the personal delivery device
that is visible in clear weather from a distance of at least 500 feet to the
front and rear of the personal delivery device when directly in front of low
beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   (c)   No personal delivery device operator shall allow a personal delivery
device to do any of the following:
      (1)    Fail to comply with traffic or pedestrian control devices and
signals;
      (2)    Unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic;
      (3)    Transport any hazardous material that would require a permit
issued by the Public Utilities Commission;
      (4)    Operate on a street or highway, except when crossing the street or
highway within a crosswalk.
   (d)   A personal delivery device has all of the rights and obligations
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances, except that a personal
delivery device shall yield the right-of-way to human pedestrians on sidewalks
and crosswalks.
   (e)   (1)   No person shall operate a personal delivery device unless the
person is authorized to do so under this section and complies with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)    An eligible entity is responsible for both of the following:
          A.    Any violation of this section that is committed by a personal
delivery device operator; and
         B.   Any other circumstance, including a technological malfunction, in
which a personal delivery device operates in a manner prohibited by divisions
(c)(1) to (c)(4) of this section.
            (ORC 4511.513)
371.15 LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICES.
   (a)   (1)    A low-speed micromobility device may be operated on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and may be operated on any
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance
with this section.
      (2)    Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this title that by their nature could apply to a low-speed micromobility device
do apply to the device and the person operating it whenever it is operated upon
any public street, highway, sidewalk, or shared-use path, or upon any portion
of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (b)   No operator of a low-speed micromobility device shall do any of the
following:
      (1)    Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians at all times;
      (2)    Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)    Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         A.   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         B.   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
   (c)   (1)   No person who is under sixteen years of age shall rent a low-
speed micromobility device.
      (2)    No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device to
a person who is under sixteen years of age.
      (3)    No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device on
behalf of a person who is under sixteen years of age.
   (d)   No person shall operate a low-speed micromobility device at a speed
greater than twenty miles per hour.
   (e)   (1)    Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)    Unless a mens rea is otherwise specified in this section, an
offense established under this section is a strict liability offense and Ohio
R.C. 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of that offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
   (f)   Notwithstanding subsection (a)(1) of this section, the municipality,
may do any of the following:
      (1)    Regulate or prohibit the operation of low-speed micromobility
devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, under its
jurisdiction;
      (2)    Include low-speed micromobility devices that are adapted to expand
access for people with various physical limitations into a shared bicycle,
shared electric bicycle, or similar vehicle sharing program, under its
jurisdiction;
      (3)    Require the owner or operator of a low-speed micromobility device
rental service or low-speed micromobility device sharing program to maintain
commercial general liability insurance related to the operation of the devices,
with limits of up to one million dollars ($1,000,000) per occurrence and two
million dollars ($2,000,000) per aggregate.
         (ORC 4511.514)
CHAPTER 373
Bicycles
373.01   Code application to bicycles.
373.02   Riding upon seats; handle bars; helmets and glasses.
373.03   Attaching bicycle, skates or sled to vehicle.
373.04   Riding bicycles abreast.
373.05   Signal device; siren on bicycle.
373.06   Light and reflector; brakes.
373.07   Riding on right side of roadway; traffic control devices; hand and arm
signals; yield right-of-way.
373.08   Reckless operation; control, course and speed.
373.09   Parking of bicycle.
373.10   Impounding by police; lost bicycles.
373.11   Electric bicycles.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Bicycle defined -- see TRAF.
301.07
Motor bicycles, motor scooters and motorcycles -- see TRAF. Ch.
375
 
 
373.01 CODE APPLICATION TO BICYCLES.
   (a)   The provisions of this Traffic Code that are applicable to bicycles
and electric bicycles apply whenever a bicycle or electric bicycle is operated
upon any street or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (b)   Except as provided in subsection (d) of this section, a bicycle
operator or electric bicycle operator who violates any section of this Traffic
Code described in subsection (a) of this section that is applicable to bicycles
or electric bicycles may be issued a ticket, citation or summons by a law
enforcement officer for the violation in the same manner as the operator of a
motor vehicle would be cited for the same violation. A person who commits any
such violation while operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not have any
points assessed against the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary license under Ohio R.C.
4510.036.
   (c)   Except as provided in subsection (d) of this section, in the case of a
violation of any section of this Traffic Code described in subsection (a) of
this section by a bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator, or motor vehicle
operator when the trier of fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle
operator endangered the lives of bicycle riders or electric bicycle riders at
the time of the violation, the court, notwithstanding any provision of this
Traffic Code to the contrary, may require the bicycle operator, electric
bicycle operator or motor vehicle operator to take and successfully complete a
bicycling skills course approved by the court in addition to or in lieu of any
penalty otherwise prescribed by the Traffic Code for that violation.
   (d)   Subsections (b) and (c) of this section do not apply to violations of
Section
333.01 of this Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.52)
   (e)   The provisions of this Traffic Code shall apply to bicycles and
electric bicycles except those which by their nature are not applicable.
373.02 RIDING UPON SEATS; HANDLEBARS; HELMETS AND GLASSES.
   (a)   For purposes of this section "snowmobile" has the same meaning as
given that term in Ohio R.C 4519.01.
   (b)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall ride other
than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto, or carry
any other person upon such bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon a firmly
attached and regular seat thereon, and no person shall ride upon a bicycle or
electric bicycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular seat.
   (c)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or astride
the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any other
person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular seat
or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than upon
such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
   (d)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a saddle
other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one leg on
each side of the motorcycle.
   (e)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
   (f)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle or article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
   (g)   No bicycle, electric bicycle, or motorcycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
No motorcycle shall be operated on a highway when the handlebars rise higher
than the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
operator’s seat or saddle.
   (h)   (1)   Except as provided in subsection (h)(2) of this section, no
person shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without
using safety glasses or other protective eye device. Except as provided in
subsection (i)(3) of this section, no person who is under the age of eighteen
years, or who holds a motorcycle operator's endorsement or license bearing
"novice" designation that is currently in effect as provided in Ohio R.C.
4507.13, shall operate a motorcycle on a highway, or be a passenger on a
motorcycle, unless wearing a United States Department of Transportation-
approved protective helmet on the person’s head, and no other person shall be a
passenger on a motorcycle operated by such a person unless similarly wearing a
protective helmet. The helmet, safety glasses or other protective eye device
shall conform with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. The
provisions of this subsection or a violation thereof shall not be used in the
trial of any civil action.
      (2)   Subsection (h)(1) of this section does not apply to a person
operating an autocycle or cab-enclosed motorcycle when the occupant compartment
top is in place enclosing the occupants.
   (i)   (1)   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued by the Ohio
Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4507.05 unless the person, at
the time of such operation, is wearing on the person’s head a protective helmet
that has been approved by the United States Department of Transportation that
conforms with rules adopted by the Director.
      (2)   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4507.05 in any of the following
circumstances:
         A.   At any time when lighted lights are required by Section
337.02 (a)(1);
         B.   While carrying a passenger;
         C.   On any limited access highway or heavily congested roadway.
   (j)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (k)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.53)
373.03 ATTACHING BICYCLE, SKATES OR SLED TO VEHICLE.
   (a)   No person riding upon any motorcycle, bicycle, electric bicycle,
coaster, roller skates, sled, skateboard or toy vehicle shall attach the same
or self to any vehicle upon a roadway.
   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any motorcycle,
bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skateboard or toy
vehicle to attach the same or self to any vehicle while it is moving upon a
roadway. This section does not apply to the towing of a disabled vehicle.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.54)
373.04 RIDING BICYCLES ABREAST.
   (a)   Every person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable, obeying all
traffic rules applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (b)   Person riding bicycles or electric bicycles upon a roadway shall not
ride more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths or parts of
roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or electric bicycles.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.55)
373.05 SIGNAL DEVICE ON BICYCLE.
   (a)   A bicycle or electric bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of
giving an audible signal, except that a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle or electric bicycle
any siren or whistle.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.56)
373.06 LIGHTS AND REFLECTOR ON BICYCLE; BRAKES.
   (a)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle when in use at the times specified
in Section
337.02, shall be equipped with the following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or electric
bicycle or the operator that shall emit a white light visible from a distance
of at least five hundred feet to the front; and three hundred feet to the
sides. A generator- powered lamp that emits light only when the bicycle or
electric bicycle is moving may be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from one hundred feet to six hundred feet to the rear when directly
in front of lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of five hundred feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector;
If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as specified in
subsection (a)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve as the reflector and
a separate reflector is not required.
   (b)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under subsection (a) of this section, except that red lamps and red
reflectors shall not be used on the front of the bicycle or electric bicycle
and white lamps and white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (c)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate brake when used on a
street or highway.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.56)
373.07 RIDING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; HAND AND ARM
SIGNALS; YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (a)   Any person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall:
      (1)   Obey the instructions of official traffic control devices
applicable to vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer;
      (2)   Before changing course, turning or stopping upon a roadway,
exercise due care that the movement can be made with reasonable safety and give
the hand and arm signals required by Section
331.15 .
      (3)   Yield the right-of-way to pedestrian and vehicular traffic upon the
roadway as lawfully required;
      (4)   Yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian upon a sidewalk;
      (5)   Give timely and audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian upon a roadway or sidewalk.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting
activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the
offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
303.991 of the Traffic Code. (ORC 4511.55(A))
373.08 RECKLESS OPERATION; CONTROL, COURSE AND SPEED.
   (a)   No person shall operate a bicycle or electric bicycle:
      (1)   Without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians and
drivers and occupants of all other vehicles, and so as to endanger the life,
limb or property of any person while in the lawful use of the streets or
sidewalks or any other public or private property;
      (2)   Without exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such
bicycle;
      (3)   In a weaving or zigzag course unless such irregular course is
necessary for safe operation in compliance with law;
      (4)   Without both hands upon the handle grips except when necessary to
give the required hand and arm signals, or as provided in Section
373.02 (d);
      (5)   At a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the
conditions then existing.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
373.09 PARKING OF BICYCLE.
   (a)   No person shall park a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a sidewalk in
such a manner so as to unduly interfere with pedestrian traffic or upon a
roadway so as to unduly interfere with vehicular traffic.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
373.10 IMPOUNDING BY POLICE; LOST BICYCLES.
   If the operator of any bicycle violates any of the provisions of this
chapter, such bicycle shall be immediately taken and impounded by the Division
of Police and shall be held for a period, not exceeding ten days, to be
determined by the Chief of Police.
   In the event any lost bicycle is found, the Division of Police shall take
possession of such bicycle and hold it for disposition as provided in the
chapter of the Administrative Code dealing with disposal of property.
373.11 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (a)   (1)   The operation of a class 1 electric bicycle and a class 2
electric bicycle is permitted on a path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or on a shared- use path, unless the Municipality by resolution,
ordinance, or rule prohibits the use of a class 1 electric bicycle or class 2
electric bicycle on such a path.
      (2)   No person shall operate a class 3 electric bicycle on a path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or a shared-use path unless that path
is within or adjacent to a highway or the Municipality by resolution,
ordinance, or rule authorizes the use of a class 3 electric bicycle on such a
path.
      (3)   No person shall operate a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2
electric bicycle or a class 3 electric bicycle on a path that is intended to be
used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar
uses, or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically
been reserved for nonmotorized use, unless the Municipality by resolution,
ordinance or rule authorizes the use of a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2
electric bicycle, or a class 3 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (4)    Subsections (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section do not apply to a
law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal and
traffic laws of the state, using an electric bicycle while in the performance
of the officer’s duties.
   (b)   (1)   No person under sixteen years of age shall operate a class 3
electric bicycle; however, a person under sixteen years of age may ride as a
passenger on a class 3 electric bicycle that is designed to accommodate
passengers.
      (2)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a class 3 electric
bicycle unless the person is wearing a protective helmet that meets the
standards established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission or the American
Society for Testing and Materials.
   (c)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever
operates an electric bicycle in a manner that is prohibited under subsection
(a) of this section and whoever violates subsection (b) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor
vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the
offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle
or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the third degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under subsection (c)(1) of this section
are strict liability offenses and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of Ohio R.C. 2901.20. The designation of these offenses as strict
liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
         (ORC 4511.522)
CHAPTER 375
Motorcycles, Motorized Bicycles, Snowmobiles and Other Miscellaneous Vehicles
375.01   Crash helmets, safety equipment, for motorcycles. (Repealed)
375.02   Safety glasses for snowmobiles.
375.03   Riding upon motorcycles or motorized bicycles.
375.04   Seat belts.
375.05   Height of motorcycle or motorized bicycle.
375.06   Riding motorcycles or motorized bicycles.
375.07   Motorized bicycle operation, equipment and license.
375.08   Miscellaneous motorized bicycle riding regulations.
375.09   Low-speed vehicles, under-speed vehicles, utility vehicles and mini-
trucks.
375.10   Shared mobility devices.
 
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Motorcycle defined -- see TRAF.
301.47
Motorcycle muffler -- see TRAF.
337.20.
Motorcycle mirror -- see TRAF.
337.21.
Motorcycle headlight -- see TRAF.
337.03.
Motorcycle brakes -- see TRAF.
337.18.
Bicycles -- see TRAF. Ch.
373.
 
 
375.01 CRASH HELMETS, SAFETY EQUIPMENT, FOR MOTORCYCLES. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Former Section
375.01 has been repealed by implication. See Section
373.02(h) for relevant provisions.)
375.02 SAFETY GLASSES FOR SNOWMOBILES.
   (a)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile without
using safety glasses, or other protective eye device, conforming with
regulations issued by the State Director of Public Safety.
   (b)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
375.03 RIDING UPON MOTORCYCLES OR MOTORIZED BICYCLES.
   (a)   A person operating a motorcycle or motorized bicycle shall not ride
other than upon the permanent and regular seat attached thereto, nor carry any
other person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat thereon, nor shall any person ride upon a motorcycle or motorized bicycle
other than upon such a firmly attached and regular seat.
   (b)   A person shall ride upon a motorcycle or motorized bicycle only while
sitting astride the seat, facing forward, with one leg on each side of the
vehicle.
   (c)   No motorcycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
   (d)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
375.04 SEAT BELTS.
   (a)   Every motor powered vehicle with more than two wheels and less than 32
inches high, without a roof and without metal doors or other metal sides
enclosing the driver and passenger areas, shall be equipped with usable seat
belts for the driver and for each passenger.
   (b)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
375.05 HEIGHT OF MOTORCYCLE OR MOTORIZED BICYCLE.
   (a)   No motorcycle nor motorized bicycle shall be operated on a highway
when the handle bars or grips are more than 15 inches higher than the seat or
saddle for the operator.
   (b)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
375.06 RIDING MOTORCYCLES OR MOTORIZED BICYCLES.
   (a)   Persons riding motorcycles or motorized bicycles upon a roadway shall
not ride more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths or parts of
roadways set aside for the exclusive use of such vehicles.
   (b)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
375.07 MOTORIZED BICYCLE OPERATION, EQUIPMENT AND LICENSE.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon any street or highway
or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking, unless all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person is fourteen or fifteen years of age and holds a valid
probationary motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the
test provided for in Ohio R.C. 4511.521, or the person is sixteen years of age
or older and holds either a valid commercial driver’s license issued under Ohio
R.C. Chapter 4506, or a driver’s license issued under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507,
or a valid motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the
test provided for in Ohio R.C. 4511.521, except that if a person is sixteen
years of age, has a valid probationary motorized bicycle license and desires a
motorized bicycle license, the person is not required to comply with the
testing requirements provided for in Ohio R.C. 4511.521;
      (2)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with rules adopted
by the Ohio Director of Public Safety and is in proper working order;
      (3)   The person, if under eighteen years of age, is wearing a protective
helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened, and the
motorized bicycle is equipped with a rear-view mirror; and
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
   (b)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry another person
upon the motorized bicycle.
   (c)   The protective helmet and rearview mirror required by subsection (a)
(3) of this section shall, on and after January 1, 1985, conform with rules
adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. (ORC
4511.521)
375.08 MISCELLANEOUS MOTORIZED BICYCLE RIDING REGULATIONS.
   (a)   The following riding regulations shall apply to motorized bicycles:
      (1)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon a sidewalk, other
than that part of a sidewalk which constitutes a driveway approach connecting a
private driveway to the adjacent public street.
      (2)   No person riding a motorized bicycle shall attach that vehicle or
himself to any other vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway. No operator of
another motor vehicle shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
motorized bicycle to attach it or himself to that vehicle while it is moving
upon a roadway.
      (3)   Operators of motorized bicycles shall comply with all right-of-way,
reckless operation and all other requirements of this Traffic Code (and of ORC
4511 and 4513) relating to motor vehicles.
   (b)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
375.09 LOW-SPEED VEHICLES, UNDER-SPEED VEHICLES, UTILITY VEHICLES, AND MINI-
TRUCKS.
   Low-speed vehicles, under-speed vehicles, utility vehicles, and mini-trucks
may be operated on public streets within the city of Oakwood, subject to the
following requirements:
   (a)   Inspection Required. Any person wishing to operate a low-speed
vehicle, under-speed vehicle, utility vehicle, or mini-truck on public streets
of the City of Oakwood shall first submit the vehicle to an inspection
conducted by the Oakwood Public Safety Department that complies with inspection
requirements established under Section 4513.02 of the Ohio Revised Code. The
purpose of the inspection is to confirm that the vehicle is properly equipped
as set forth in subsection (d) below. Upon satisfactory inspection, the
Director of Public Safety or his/her designee shall issue a certificate of
compliance to the vehicle owner.
No person shall operate a low-speed vehicle, under-speed vehicle, utility
vehicle, or mini-truck on public streets of the City of Oakwood without
successfully passing the required vehicle inspection and obtaining a
certificate of compliance.
   (b)   Title and Registration. No person shall operate a low-speed vehicle,
under-speed vehicle, utility vehicle, or mini-truck on public streets of the
City of Oakwood without obtaining a valid title and registration for said
vehicle in accordance with Chapters 4503 and 4505 of the Ohio Revised Code. No
person who is the owner or operator of a low-speed vehicle, under-speed
vehicle, utility vehicle, or mini-truck shall fail to display proper license
plates, in plain view on the front and rear of said vehicle, bearing the
distinctive registration number and marks assigned to such vehicle, including
any required county identification sticker and validation sticker.
   (c)   Operator's License and Insurance. No person shall operate a low-speed
vehicle, under-speed vehicle, utility vehicle, or mini-truck on public streets
of the City of Oakwood unless the person is at least sixteen years of age and
possesses both a valid driver's license and proof of current liability
insurance coverage for the vehicle. (For purposes of this subsection, the
applicable minimum insurance thresholds shall be those established by the State
of Ohio for the operation of a motor vehicle under Section 4509.01(K) of the
Ohio Revised Code, as the same may be amended from time to time.)
   (d)   No Operation Without Required Equipment. No person shall operate a
low-speed vehicle, under-speed vehicle, utility vehicle, or mini-truck on
public streets of the City of Oakwood if said vehicle is not fully equipped as
required by Chapter 4513 of the Ohio Revised Code and, in the case of low-speed
vehicles only, as required by 49 CFR 571.500 (Standard No. 500).
   (e)   Permitted and Prohibited Streets. Except for mini-trucks, operation is
limited to public streets having an established speed limit not greater than
twenty-five miles per hour. Operators are permitted to cross an intersection
with a street having a greater speed limit, so long as they remain on a street
with an established speed limit not greater than twenty-five miles per hour.
   (f)   Sidewalk Operation Prohibited. Operation on sidewalks is prohibited,
other than the incidental crossing of a sidewalk while entering or exiting any
driveway.
   (g)   Applicability of Motor Vehicle Laws.  Except as expressly provided in
this section, all state and local laws regulating the operation and parking of
motor vehicles shall be deemed to apply to the operation and parking of low-
speed vehicles, under-speed vehicles, utility vehicles, and mini-trucks within
the City of Oakwood.
   (h)   Exception for Certain City Vehicles. The requirements of Section
375.09  shall not apply to scooters or other utility vehicles operated by city
employees in the performance of refuse collection duties.
      (Ord. 4876. Passed 1-7-19.)
375.10 SHARED MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (a)   Purpose.  The purpose of this section is to prohibit Shared Mobility
Devices from being placed in the public right-of-way or on public property,
operated in the public right-of-way or on public property, or offered for use
anywhere in the City, so as to allow for adequate vehicle and pedestrian
traffic flow and to promote public safety.
   (b)   Definition. For purposes of this section, "Shared Mobility Device"
means any wheeled device, other than an automobile or motorcycle, that is
powered by a motor; is accessed via an on-demand portal, whether a smartphone
application, membership card, or similar method; is operated by a private
entity that owns, manages, and maintains devices for shared use by members of
the public; and is available to members of the public in unstaffed, self-
service locations.
   (c)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall park, leave standing, leave lying, abandon, or
otherwise place a shared mobility device in a public right-of-way or on public
property anywhere within the City.
      (2)   No person shall operate a shared mobility device in a public right-
of-way or on public property anywhere within the City.
      (3)   No person shall provide or offer for use a shared mobility device
anywhere within the City.
   (d)   Violations.
      (1)   Violation of this section shall be punishable as an unclassified
misdemeanor. In addition, any violation of Section
375.10 (c)(3) shall constitute a public nuisance, and the Law Director is
authorized to file for injunctive and/or other relief on the city's behalf as
necessary to abate the nuisance.
      (2)   Public Safety Officers, Code Enforcement Officers, other city
officials designated by the City Manager, and any party contracted by the City
to specifically impound shared mobility devices are authorized to impound any
shared mobility device that has been offered for use, placed in a public right-
of-way or on public property, or operated in a public right-of-way or on public
property in violation of this Section. Impounded devices shall be subject to
impound and storage fees established by the City Manager in the same manner as
other city fees.
   (e)   Sunset Provision. This section shall remain in full force and effect
until August 14, 2020, at which time it shall become ineffective and shall be
removed from the Codified Ordinances of the City of Oakwood, Ohio, unless
Council acts to readopt or otherwise continue the provisions herein.
(Ord. 4886. Passed 7-15-19.)
CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF OAKWOOD
PART FIVE - GENERAL OFFENSES CODE
Chap.
501. General Provisions and Penalty.
Chap.
505. Animals and Fowl.
Chap.
509. Disorderly Conduct and Peace Disturbance.
Chap.
511. Fair Housing.
Chap.
513. Smoking on City-Owned Property.
Chap.
517. Gambling.
Chap.
521. Health, Safety and Sanitation.
Chap.
523. Junk Cars.
Chap.
525. Law Enforcement and Public Office.
Chap.
529. Liquor Control.
Chap.
531. Curfew for Minors.
Chap.
533. Obscenity and Sex Offenses.
Chap.
537. Offenses Against Persons.
Chap.
541. Property Offenses.
Chap.
545. Theft and Fraud.
Chap.
549. Weapons and Explosives.
Chap.
551. Landscape Management.
CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF OAKWOOD
PART FIVE - GENERAL OFFENSES CODE
CHAPTER 501
General Provisions and Penalty
501.01   Definitions.
501.02   Classification of offenses.
501.03   Common law offenses abrogated.
501.04   Rules of construction.
501.05   Criminal law jurisdiction.
501.06   Limitation of criminal prosecution.
501.07   Requirements for criminal liability.
501.08   Culpable mental states.
501.09   Attempt.
501.10   Complicity.
501.11   Organizational criminal liability.
501.12   Personal accountability for organizational conduct.
501.13   Police and sanitary regulations, park rules.
501.14   Payment of costs of confinement.
501.99   Penalties for misdemeanors.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
See sectional histories for similar State law
Limitation of prosecution for income tax violations - see Ohio R.C. 718.06
Modification of sentence - see Ohio R.C. 2929.10(C), (D)
Penalty considerations - see Ohio R.C. 2929.22
Citation issuance for minor misdemeanors - see Ohio R.C. 2935.26 et seq.
 
 
501.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in the Codified Ordinances:
   (a)   "Force" means any violence, compulsion or constraint physically
exerted by any means upon or against a person or thing.
   (b)   "Deadly force" means any force that carries a substantial risk that it
will proximately result in the death of any person.
   (c)   "Physical harm to persons" means any injury, illness or other
physiological impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
   (d)   "Physical harm to property" means any tangible or intangible damage to
property that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with
its use or enjoyment. "Physical harm to property" does not include wear and
tear occasioned by normal use.
   (e)   "Serious physical harm to persons" means any of the following:
(1)   Any mental illness or condition of such gravity as would normally require
hospitalization or prolonged psychiatric treatment;
      (2)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
(3)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or that involves some temporary, substantial incapacity;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent disfigurement, or
that involves some temporary, serious disfigurement;
      (5)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of such duration as to
result in substantial suffering, or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
   (f)   "Serious physical harm to property" means any physical harm to
property that does either of the following:
      (1)   Results in substantial loss to the value of the property, or
requires a substantial amount of time, effort or money to repair or replace;
      (2)   Temporarily prevents the use or enjoyment of the property, or
substantially interferes with its use and enjoyment for an extended period of
time.
   (g)   "Risk" means a significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote
possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may
exist.
   (h)   "Substantial risk" means a strong possibility, as contrasted with a
remote or significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that
certain circumstances may exist.
   (i)   "Offense of violence" means any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04,
2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.15, 2903.18, 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22,
2905.01, 2905.02, 2905.11, 2905.32, 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.05, 2909.02,
2909.03, 2909.24, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2917.01, 2917.02, 2917.03,
2917.31, 2917.321, 2919.25, 2921.03, 2921.04, 2921.34, 2923.161, 2903.34(A)(1),
2911.12(A)(1) to (3) or 2919.22(B)(1) to (4), or felonious sexual penetration
in violation of former Ohio R.C. 2907.12;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or the United States, substantially equivalent to any
section listed in subsection (i)(1) hereof;
      (3)   An offense, other than a traffic offense, under an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the United
States, committed, purposely or knowingly, and involving physical harm to
persons or a risk of serious physical harm to persons;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing any
offense under subsection (i)(1), (2) or (3) hereof.
      (5)   A violation of division (C) of Ohio R.C. 959.131.
   (j)   (1)   "Property" means any property, real or personal, tangible or
intangible, and any interest or license in that property. "Property" includes,
but is not limited to, cable television service, other telecommunications
service, telecommunications devices, information service, computers, data,
computer software, financial instruments associated with computers, other
documents associated with computers, or copies of the documents, whether in
machine or human readable form, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents,
and property protected by a trademark, copyright, or patent. “Financial
instruments associated with computers” include, but are not limited to, checks,
drafts, warrants, money orders, notes of indebtedness, certificates of deposit,
letters of credit, bills of credit or debit cards, financial transaction
authorization mechanisms, marketable securities, or any computer system
representations of any of them.
      (2)   As used in this section, “trade secret” has the same meaning as in
Ohio R.C. 1333.61, and “telecommunications service” and “information service”
have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in this section, “cable television service”, “computer”,
“computer software”, “computer system”, “computer network”, “data”, and
“telecommunications device” have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 2913.01.
   (k)   "Law enforcement officer" means any of the following:
      (1)   A sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, police officer of a township
or joint police district, marshal, deputy marshal, municipal police officer,
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
Ohio R.C. 3735.31(D) or State highway patrol trooper;
      (2)   An officer, agent or employee of the State or any of its agencies,
instrumentalities or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, Charter or
ordinance, a duty to conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is
imposed and the authority to arrest violators is conferred, within the limits
of that statutory duty and authority;
      (3)   A mayor or manager in the mayor’s or manager’s capacity as chief
conservator of the peace within the mayor’s or manager’s municipal corporation;
      (4)   A member of an auxiliary police force organized by county, township
or municipal law enforcement authorities, within the scope of the member's
appointment or commission;
      (5)   A person lawfully called pursuant to Ohio R.C. 311.07 to aid a
sheriff in keeping the peace, for the purposes and during the time when the
person is called;
      (6)   A person appointed by a mayor pursuant to Ohio R.C. 737.10 as a
special patrolling officer during riot or emergency, for the purposes and
during the time when the person is appointed;
      (7)   A member of the organized militia of this State or the armed forces
of the United States, lawfully called to duty to aid civil authorities in
keeping the peace or protect against domestic violence;
      (8)   A prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, secret
service officer or municipal prosecutor;
      (9)   A veterans' home police officer appointed under Ohio R.C. 5907.02;
      (10)   A member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under Ohio R.C. 306.35(Y);
      (11)   A special police officer employed by a port authority under Ohio
R.C. 4582.04 or 4582.28;
      (12)   The Senate Sergeant of Arms and or Assistant Sergeant at Arms;
      (13)   A special police officer employed by a municipal corporation at a
municipal airport, or other municipal air navigation facility, that has
scheduled operations, as defined in Section 119.3 of Title 14 of the Code of
Federal Regulations, 14 C.F.R. 119.3, as amended, and that is required to be
under a security program and is governed by aviation security rules of the
transportation security administration of the United States Department of
Transportation as provided in Parts 1542 and 1544 of Title 49 of the Code of
Federal Regulations, as amended.
   (l)   "Privilege" means an immunity, license or right conferred by law, or
bestowed by express or implied grant, or arising out of status, position,
office or relationship, or growing out of necessity.
   (m)   "Contraband" means any property that is illegal for a person to
acquire or possess under a statute, ordinance, or rule, or that a trier of fact
lawfully determines to be illegal to possess by reason of the property’s
involvement in an offense. “Contraband” includes, but is not limited to, all of
the following:
      (1)   Any controlled substance, as defined in Ohio R.C. 3719.01, or any
device, or paraphernalia;
      (2)   Any unlawful gambling device, or paraphernalia;
      (3)   Any dangerous ordnance or obscene material.
   (n)   “School safety zone” consists of a school, school building, school
premises, school activity, and school bus.
   (o)   “School”, “school building” and “school premises” have the same
meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2925.01.
   (p)   “School activity” means any activity held under the auspices of a
board of education of a city, local, exempted village, joint vocational, or
cooperative education school district; a governing authority of a community
school established under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3314; a governing board of an
educational service center; or the governing body of a nonpublic school for
which the Ohio Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards
under Ohio R.C. 3301.07.
   (q)   “School bus” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4511.01.
      (ORC 2901.01)
501.02 CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES.
   As used in the Codified Ordinances:
   (a)   Offenses include misdemeanors of the first, second, third and fourth
degree, minor misdemeanors and offenses not specifically classified.
   (b)   Regardless of the penalty that may be imposed, any offense
specifically classified as a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor.
   (c)   Any offense not specifically classified is a misdemeanor if
imprisonment for not more than one year may be imposed as a penalty.
   (d)   Any offense not specifically classified is a minor misdemeanor if the
only penalty that may be imposed is one of the following:
      (1)   For an offense committed prior to January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00);
      (2)   For an offense committed on or after January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00), community service under division
(D) of Ohio R.C. 2929.27, or a financial sanction other than a fine under Ohio
R.C. 2929.28.
         (ORC 2901.02)
   (e)   Any offense not specifically classified as a first, second, third or
fourth degree misdemeanor or as a minor misdemeanor shall be deemed to fall
into the next highest classification that provides for penalties (as set forth
in Section
501.99 below) greater than those for that offense. For example, if the penalty
for an unclassified offense includes imprisonment for a maximum of forty-five
days and a maximum fine of $225.00, the offense shall be deemed to be a third
degree misdemeanor, because the forty-five day imprisonment exceeds the thirty
day maximum for a fourth degree offense.
      (Ord. 2867. Passed 4-1-74; Ord. 3245. Passed 1-18-82.)
501.03 COMMON LAW OFFENSES ABROGATED.
   (a)   No conduct constitutes a criminal offense against the Municipality
unless it is defined as an offense in the Codified Ordinances or any other
Municipal ordinance.
   (b)   An offense is defined when one or more sections of the Codified
Ordinances state a positive prohibition or enjoin a specific duty, and provide
a penalty for violation of such prohibition or failure to meet such duty.
   (c)   This section does not affect the power of a court to punish for
contempt or to employ any sanction authorized by law to enforce an order, civil
judgment or decree.
(ORC 2901.03)
501.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c) hereof, sections of the
Codified Ordinances defining offenses or penalties shall be strictly construed
against the Municipality and liberally construed in favor of the accused.
   (b)   Rules of criminal procedure and sections of the Ohio Revised Code
providing for criminal procedure shall be construed so as to effect the fair,
impartial, speedy and sure administration of justice.
   (c)   Any provision of a section of the Codified Ordinances that refers to a
previous conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of a section of the
Codified Ordinances or Ohio Revised Code or of a division of a section of the
Codified Ordinances or Ohio Revised Code shall be construed to also refer to a
previous conviction of or plea of guilty to a substantially equivalent offense
under an existing or former law of this State, another state, or the United
States or under an existing or former municipal ordinance.
   (d)   Any provision of the Codified Ordinances that refers to a section, or
to a division of a section, of the Codified Ordinances that defines or
specifies a criminal offense shall be construed to also refer to an existing or
former law of this State, another state, or the United States, to an existing
or former municipal ordinance, or to an existing or former division of any such
existing or former law or ordinance that defines or specifies, or that defined
or specified, a substantially equivalent offense. (ORC 2901.04)
501.05 CRIMINAL LAW JURISDICTION.
   (a)    A person is subject to misdemeanor prosecution and punishment in this
Municipality if any of the following occur:
      (1)   The person commits an offense under the laws of this Municipality,
any element of which takes place in this Municipality.
      (2)   While in this Municipality, the person attempts to commit, or is
guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in another jurisdiction,
which offense is an offense under both the laws of this Municipality or this
State and the other jurisdiction, or, while in this Municipality, the person
conspires to commit an offense in another jurisdiction, which offense is an
offense under both the laws of this Municipality or this State and the other
jurisdiction, and a substantial overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy is
undertaken in this Municipality by the person or another person involved in the
conspiracy, subsequent to the person’s entrance into the conspiracy. In any
case in which a person attempts to commit, is guilty of complicity in the
commission of, or conspires to commit an offense in another jurisdiction as
described in this subsection, the person is subject to criminal prosecution and
punishment in this Municipality for the attempt, complicity, or conspiracy, and
for any resulting offense that is committed or completed in the other
jurisdiction.
      (3)   While out of this Municipality, the person conspires or attempts to
commit, or is guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in this
Municipality.
      (4)   While out of this Municipality, the person omits to perform a legal
duty imposed by the laws of this Municipality, which omission affects a
legitimate interest of the Municipality in protecting, governing or regulating
any person, property, thing, transaction or activity in this Municipality.
      (5)   While out of this Municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
retains property and subsequently brings any of the unlawfully taken or
retained property into this Municipality.
      (6)   While out of this Municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
entices another and subsequently brings the other person into this
Municipality.
      (7)   The person, by means of a computer, computer system, computer
network, telecommunication, telecommunications device, telecommunications
service, or information service, causes or knowingly permits any writing, data,
image, or other telecommunication to be disseminated or transmitted into this
Municipality in violation of the law of this Municipality.
   (b)   This Municipality includes the land and water within its boundaries
and the air space above such land and water, and real property outside the
corporate limits, with respect to which this Municipality has either exclusive
or concurrent legislative jurisdiction. Where the boundary between this
Municipality and another jurisdiction is disputed, the disputed territory is
conclusively presumed to be within this Municipality for purposes of this
section.
   (c)   When an offense is committed under the laws of this Municipality, and
it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the offense or any element of the
offense took place either in this Municipality or in another jurisdiction or
jurisdictions, but it cannot reasonably be determined in which it took place,
the offense or element is conclusively presumed to have taken place in this
Municipality for purposes of this section.
   (d)   When a person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in
this Municipality for an offense committed or completed outside of this
Municipality, the person is subject to all specifications for that offense that
would be applicable if the offense had been committed within this Municipality.
   (e)   Any act, conduct, or element that is a basis of a person being subject
under this section to criminal prosecution and punishment in this Municipality
need not be committed personally by the person as long as it is committed by
another person who is in complicity or conspiracy with the person.
   (f)   This section shall be liberally construed, consistent with
constitutional limitations, to allow this Municipality the broadest possible
jurisdiction over offenses and persons committing offenses in, or affecting,
this Municipality.
   (g)   For purposes of subsection (a)(2) of this section, an overt act is
substantial when it is of a character that manifests a purpose on the part of
the actor that the object of the conspiracy should be completed.
   (h)   As used in this section, “computer”, “computer system”, “computer
network”, “information service”, “telecommunication”, “telecommunications
device”, “telecommunications service”, “data”, and “writing” have the same
meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2913.01. (ORC 2901.11)
501.06 LIMITATION OF CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, a prosecution shall be
barred unless it is commenced within the following periods after an offense is
committed:
      (1)   For misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two years;
      (2)   For a minor misdemeanor, six months.
   (b)   If the period of limitation provided in subsection (a) hereof has
expired, prosecution shall be commenced for an offense of which an element is
fraud or breach of a fiduciary duty, within one year after discovery of the
offense either by an aggrieved person, or by his legal representative who is
not himself a party to the offense.
   (c)   (1)   If the period of limitation provided in this section has
expired, prosecution shall be commenced for the following offenses during the
following specified periods of time:
         A.   For an offense involving misconduct in office by a public servant
at any time while the accused remains a public servant, or within two years
thereafter;
         B.   For an offense by a person who is not a public servant but whose
offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a public servant, at
any time while that public servant remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter.
      (2)   As used in this subsection:
         A.   An “offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a
public servant” includes, but is not limited to, a violation of Ohio R.C.
101.71, 101.91, 121.61 or 2921.13, division (F) or (H) of Ohio R.C. 102.03,
division (A) of Ohio R.C. 2921.02, division (A) or (B) of Ohio R.C. 2921.43, or
division (F) or (G) of Ohio R.C. 3517.13, that is directly related to an
offense involving misconduct in office of a public servant.
         B.   “Public servant” has the same meaning as in Section
525.01.
   (d)   An offense is committed when every element of the offense occurs. In
the case of an offense of which an element is a continuing course of conduct,
the period of limitation does not begin to run until such course of conduct or
the accused's accountability for it terminates, whichever occurs first.
   (e)   A prosecution is commenced on the date an indictment is returned or an
information filed, or on the date a lawful arrest without a warrant is made, or
on the date a warrant, summons, citation or other process is issued, whichever
occurs first. A prosecution is not commenced by the return of an indictment or
the filing of an information unless reasonable diligence is exercised to issue
and execute process on the same. A prosecution is not commenced upon issuance
of a warrant, summons, citation or other process, unless reasonable diligence
is exercised to execute the same.
   (f)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the corpus
delicti remains undiscovered.
   (g)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
accused purposely avoids prosecution. Proof that the accused absented himself
from this Municipality or concealed his identity or whereabouts is prima-facie
evidence of his purpose to avoid prosecution.
   (h)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time a prosecution
against the accused based on the same conduct is pending in this State, even
though the indictment, information or process that commenced the prosecution is
quashed or the proceedings on the indictment, information or process are set
aside or reversed on appeal.
   (i)   The period of limitation for a violation of any provision of this
General Offenses Code that involves a physical or mental wound, injury,
disability or condition of a nature that reasonably indicates abuse or neglect
of a child under eighteen years of age or of a child with a developmental
disability or physical impairment under twenty-one years of age shall not begin
to run until either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The victim of the offense reaches the age of majority.
      (2)   A public children services agency, or a municipal or county peace
officer that is not the parent or guardian of the child, in the county in which
the child resides or in which the abuse or neglect is occurring or has occurred
has been notified that abuse or neglect is known, suspected, or believed to
have occurred. (ORC 2901.13)
   (j)   This section shall not apply to prosecutions commenced within the
period of limitations set forth in Ohio R.C. 718.12(B) for violations of the
Municipal income tax ordinance.
501.07 REQUIREMENTS FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (a)   Except as provided in subsection (b) hereof, a person is not guilty of
an offense unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person’s liability is based on conduct that includes either a
voluntary act, or an omission to perform an act or duty that the person is
capable of performing;
      (2)   The person has the requisite degree of culpability for each element
as to which a culpable mental state is specified by the language defining the
offense.
   (b)   When the language defining an offense does not specify any degree of
culpability, and plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict criminal
liability for the conduct described in the section, then culpability is not
required for a person to be guilty of the offense. The fact that one subsection
of a section plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict liability for an
offense defined in that subsection does not by itself plainly indicate a
purpose to impose strict criminal liability for an offense defined in other
subsections of the section that do not specify a degree of culpability.
   (c)   (1)   When language defining an element of an offense that is related
to knowledge or intent or to which mens rea could fairly be applied neither
specifies culpability nor plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability, the element of the offense is established only if a person acts
recklessly.
      (2)   Subsection (c)(1) of this section does not apply to offenses
defined in the Traffic Code.
      (3)   Subsection (c)(1) of this section does not relieve the prosecution
of the burden of proving the culpable mental state required by any definition
incorporated into the offense.
   (d)   Voluntary intoxication may not be taken into consideration in
determining the existence of a mental state that is an element of a criminal
offense. Voluntary intoxication does not relieve a person of a duty to act if
failure to act constitutes a criminal offense. Evidence that a person was
voluntarily intoxicated may be admissible to show whether or not the person was
physically capable of performing the act with which the person is charged.
   (e)   As used in this section:
      (1)   Possession is a voluntary act if the possessor knowingly procured
or received the thing possessed, or was aware of the possessor’s control of the
thing possessed for a sufficient time to have ended possession.
      (2)   Reflexes, convulsions, body movements during unconsciousness or
sleep, and body movements that are not otherwise a product of the actor's
volition, are involuntary acts.
      (3)   "Culpability" means purpose, knowledge, recklessness or negligence,
as defined in Section
501.08 .
      (4)   “Intoxication” includes, but is not limited to, intoxication
resulting from the ingestion of alcohol, a drug, or alcohol and a drug.
         (ORC 2901.21)
501.08 CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
   (a)   A person acts purposely when it is the person’s specific intention to
cause a certain result, or when the gist of the offense is a prohibition
against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the offender intends to
accomplish thereby, it is the offender’s specific intention to engage in
conduct of that nature.
   (b)   A person acts knowingly, regardless of purpose, when the person is
aware that the person’s conduct will probably cause a certain result or will
probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of circumstances when
the person is aware that such circumstances probably exist.
   When knowledge of the existence of a particular fact is an element of an
offense, such knowledge is established if a person subjectively believes that
there is a high probability of its existence and fails to make inquiry or acts
with a conscious purpose to avoid learning the fact.
   (c)   A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference to the
consequences, the person perversely disregards a substantial and unjustifiable
risk that the person’s conduct is likely to cause a certain result or is likely
to be of a certain nature. A person is reckless with respect to circumstances
when, with heedless indifference to the consequences, the person perversely
disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that such circumstances are
likely to exist.
   (d)   A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial lapse from
due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that the person’s
conduct may cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A person is
negligent with respect to circumstances when, because of a substantial lapse
from due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that such
circumstances may exist.
   (e)   When the section defining an offense provides that negligence suffices
to establish an element thereof, then recklessness, knowledge or purpose is
also sufficient culpability for such element. When recklessness suffices to
establish an element of an offense, then knowledge or purpose is also
sufficient culpability for such element. When knowledge suffices to establish
an element of an offense, then purpose is also sufficient culpability for such
element.
(ORC 2901.22)
501.09 ATTEMPT.
   (a)   No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or knowledge is
sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall engage in
conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the offense.
   (b)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was either
factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if that
offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the
actor believed them to be.
   (c)   No person who is convicted of committing a specific offense or of
complicity in the commission of an offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to
commit the same offense in violation of this section.
   (d)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor abandoned the actor’s effort to commit the offense or otherwise prevented
its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of the actor’s criminal purpose.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit an
offense. An attempt to commit a drug abuse offense for which the penalty is
determined by the amount or number of unit doses of the controlled substance
involved in the drug abuse offense is an offense of the same degree as the drug
abuse offense attempted would be if that drug abuse offense had been committed
and had involved an amount or number of unit doses of the controlled substance
that is within the next lower range of controlled substance amounts than was
involved in the attempt. An attempt to commit any other misdemeanor is a
misdemeanor of the next lesser degree than the misdemeanor attempted. In the
case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a violation of Ohio R.C.
Chapter 3734 that is not specifically classified, an attempt is a misdemeanor
of the first degree if the offense attempted is a felony under the Ohio Revised
Code, and a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the offense attempted is a
misdemeanor. An attempt to commit a minor misdemeanor is not an offense under
this section.
   (f)   As used in this section, “drug abuse offense” has the same meaning as
in Ohio R.C. 2925.01. (ORC 2923.02)
501.10 COMPLICITY.
   (a)   No person, acting with the kind of culpability required for the
commission of an offense, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Solicit or procure another to commit the offense;
      (2)   Aid or abet another in committing the offense;
      (3)   Cause an innocent or irresponsible person to commit the offense.
   (b)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that no person with
whom the accused was in complicity has been convicted as a principal offender.
   (c)   No person shall be convicted of complicity under this section unless
an offense is actually committed, but a person may be convicted of complicity
in an attempt to commit an offense in violation of Section
501.09.
   (d)   If an alleged accomplice of the defendant testifies against the
defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged with complicity in the
commission of or an attempt to commit an offense, an attempt to commit an
offense or an offense, the court when it charges the jury, shall state
substantially the following:
         "The testimony of an accomplice does not become
      inadmissible because of his complicity, moral turpitude
      or self-interest, but the admitted or claimed complicity
      of a witness may affect his credibility and make his
      testimony subject to grave suspicion, and require that
      it be weighed with great caution.
"It is for you, as jurors, in the light of all the facts presented to you from
the witness stand, to evaluate such testimony and to determine its quality and
worth or its lack of quality and worth."
   (e)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that,
prior to the commission of or attempt to commit the offense, the actor
terminated his complicity, under circumstances manifesting a complete and
voluntary renunciation of his criminal purpose.
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of complicity in the
commission of an offense, and shall be prosecuted and punished as if he were a
principal offender. A charge of complicity may be stated in terms of this
section, or in terms of the principal offense.
(ORC 2923.03)
501.11 ORGANIZATIONAL CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (a)   An organization may be convicted of an offense under any of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The offense is a minor misdemeanor committed by an officer, agent
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s or employee’s office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (2)   A purpose to impose organizational liability plainly appears in the
section defining the offense, and the offense is committed by an officer, agent
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s or employee’s office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (3)   The offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty
imposed by law on the organization.
      (4)   If, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, its commission was authorized, requested, commanded,
tolerated or performed by the board of directors, trustees, partners or by a
high managerial officer, agent or employee acting in behalf of the organization
and within the scope of such a board’s or person’s office or employment.
   (b)   If strict liability is imposed for the commission of an offense, a
purpose to impose organizational liability shall be presumed, unless the
contrary plainly appears.
   (c)   In a prosecution of an organization for an offense other than one for
which strict liability is imposed, it is a defense that the high managerial
officer, agent or employee having supervisory responsibility over the subject
matter of the offense exercised due diligence to prevent its commission. This
defense is not available if it plainly appears inconsistent with the purpose of
the section defining the offense.
   (d)   As used in this section, "organization" means a corporation for profit
or not for profit, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated nonprofit association, estate, trust or other commercial or
legal entity. "Organization" does not include an entity organized as or by a
governmental agency for the execution of a governmental program. (ORC 2901.23)
501.12 PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONDUCT.
   (a)   An officer, agent or employee of an organization as defined in Section
501.11 may be prosecuted for an offense committed by such organization, if he
acts with the kind of culpability required for the commission of the offense,
and any of the following apply:
      (1)   In the name of the organization or in its behalf, he engages in
conduct constituting the offense, or causes another to engage in such conduct,
or tolerates such conduct when it is of a type for which he has direct
responsibility;
      (2)   He has primary responsibility to discharge a duty imposed on the
organization by law, and such duty is not discharged.
   (b)   When a person is convicted of an offense by reason of this section, he
is subject to the same penalty as if he had acted in his own behalf. (ORC
2901.24)
501.13 POLICE AND SANITARY REGULATIONS, PARK RULES.
   (a)   All police and sanitary regulations of the City of Oakwood as they now
exist in the form of various codes in the codified ordinances relating to
traffic, general offenses, streets and public services and fire prevention, as
well as in other miscellaneous ordinances of the City of Oakwood, shall apply
to any and all real estate owned by this City beyond its own borders and used
for a municipal purpose. In addition, park rules and regulations issued by the
City Manager shall apply to all real estate owned by the City and designated by
the City Manager as park lands, whether within or beyond the City boundaries.
(Ord. 3264. Passed 5-3-82.)
   (b)   The City of Oakwood may prosecute violations of any such ordinances,
rules and regulations occurring on such land beyond its City limits in the
Municipal Court of this City. (Ord. 3084. Passed 4-16-79.)
501.14 PAYMENT OF COSTS OF CONFINEMENT.
   (a)   Any person convicted of a criminal offense (other than a minor
misdemeanor) who is confined to jail as a consequence thereof shall reimburse
the City for its expenses incurred by reason of his confinement, including but
not limited to the expenses relating to the provision of food, clothing,
medical care, per diem charges imposed by any other jurisdiction for providing
a place of incarceration, and shelter.
   (b)   The City Attorney is hereby authorized to institute any appropriate
civil suit in any court having jurisdiction for recovery of the expenses
referred in paragraph (a) above, with the amount of the reimbursement to be
determined by the court pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.223.
501.99 PENALTIES FOR MISDEMEANORS.
   (a)   Financial Sanctions. In addition to imposing court costs pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 2947.23, the court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a
misdemeanor committed under the Codified Ordinances, including a minor
misdemeanor, may sentence the offender to any financial sanction or combination
of financial sanctions authorized under this section and, if the offender is
being sentenced for a criminal offense as defined in Ohio R.C. 2930.01, shall
sentence the offender to make restitution pursuant to this section and Ohio
R.C. 2929.281. If the court, in its discretion or as required by this section,
imposes one or more financial sanctions, the financial sanctions that may be
imposed pursuant to this section include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Restitution.  
         A.   Unless the misdemeanor offense could be disposed of by the
traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic Rule 13, restitution
by the offender to the victim of the offender’s crime or the victim’s estate,
in an amount based on the victim’s economic loss. The court may not impose
restitution as a sanction pursuant to this section if the offense could be
disposed of by the traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic
Rule 13. If the court requires restitution, the court shall order that the
restitution be made to the victim in open court or to the adult probation
department that serves the jurisdiction or the clerk of the court on behalf of
the victim.
         B.   The court shall determine the amount of restitution to be paid by
the offender. The victim, victim’s representative, victim’s attorney, if
applicable, the prosecutor or the prosecutor’s designee, and the offender may
provide information relevant to the determination of the amount of restitution.
The amount the court orders as restitution shall not exceed the amount of the
economic loss suffered by the victim as a direct and proximate result of the
commission of the offense. If the court imposes restitution for the cost of
accounting or auditing done to determine the extent of economic loss, the court
may order restitution for any amount of the victim’s costs of accounting or
auditing provided that the amount of restitution is reasonable and does not
exceed the value of property or services stolen or damaged as a result of the
offense. If the court decides to or is required to impose restitution, the
court shall hold an evidentiary hearing on restitution if the offender, victim,
victim’s representative, victim’s attorney, if applicable, or victim’s estate
disputes the amount of restitution. The court shall determine the amount of
full restitution by a preponderance of the evidence.
         C.   All restitution payments shall be credited against any recovery
of economic loss in a civil action brought by the victim or the victim’s estate
against the offender. No person may introduce evidence of an award of
restitution under this section in a civil action for purposes of imposing
liability against an insurer under Ohio R.C. 3937.18.
         D.   The court may order that the offender pay a surcharge, of not
more than five percent (5%) of the amount of the restitution otherwise ordered,
to the entity responsible for collecting and processing restitution payments.
         E.   The victim, victim’s attorney, if applicable, or the attorney for
the victim’s estate may request that the prosecutor in the case file a motion,
or the offender may file a motion, for modification of the payment terms of any
restitution ordered. If the court grants the motion, it may modify the payment
terms as it determines appropriate but shall not reduce the amount of
restitution ordered, except as provided in Ohio R.C. 2929.281(A).
      (2)   Fines. A fine in the following amount:
         A.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000);
         B.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00);
         C.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00);
         D.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00);
         E.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00).
      (3)   Reimbursement of costs of sanctions.
         A.   Reimbursement by the offender of any or all of the costs of
sanctions incurred by the government, including, but not limited to, the
following:
            1.   All or part of the costs of implementing any community control
sanction, including a supervision fee under Ohio R.C. 2951.021 and the costs of
global positioning system device monitoring;
            2.   All or part of the costs of confinement in a jail or other
residential facility, including, but not limited to, a per diem fee for room
and board, the costs of medical and dental treatment, and the costs of
repairing property damaged by the offender while confined.
         B.   The amount of reimbursement ordered under subsection (a)(3)A. of
this section shall not exceed the total amount of reimbursement the offender is
able to pay and shall not exceed the actual cost of the sanctions. The court
may collect any amount of reimbursement the offender is required to pay under
that subsection. If the court does not order reimbursement under that
subsection, confinement costs may be assessed pursuant to a repayment policy
adopted under Ohio R.C. 2929.37. In addition, the offender may be required to
pay the fees specified in Ohio R.C. 2929.38 in accordance with that section.
            (ORC 2929.28)
   (b)   Jail Terms.  
      (1)   Except as provided in Ohio R.C. 2929.22 or 2929.23 of the Revised
Code, and unless another term is required or authorized pursuant to law, if the
sentencing court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor elects
or is required to impose a jail term on the offender pursuant to this General
Offenses Code, the court shall impose a definite jail term that shall be one of
the following:   
      A.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than one hundred
eighty days;
      B.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than ninety days;
      C.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than sixty days;
      D.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than thirty days.
      (2)   A.   A court that sentences an offender to a jail term under this
section may permit the offender to serve the sentence in intermittent
confinement or may authorize a limited release of the offender as provided in
Ohio R.C. 2929.26(B). The court retains jurisdiction over every offender
sentenced to jail to modify the jail sentence imposed at any time, but the
court shall not reduce any mandatory jail term.
         B.   1.   If a prosecutor, as defined in Ohio R.C. 2935.01, has filed
a notice with the court that the prosecutor wants to be notified about a
particular case and if the court is considering modifying the jail sentence of
the offender in that case, the court shall notify the prosecutor that the court
is considering modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case. The
prosecutor may request a hearing regarding the court’s consideration of
modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, and, if the
prosecutor requests a hearing, the court shall notify the eligible offender of
the hearing.
      2.   If the prosecutor requests a hearing regarding the court’s
consideration of modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, the
court shall hold the hearing before considering whether or not to release the
offender from the offender’s jail sentence.
      (3)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this section
and the court assigns the offender to a county jail that has established a
county jail industry program pursuant to Ohio R.C. 5147.30, the court shall
specify, as part of the sentence, whether the offender may be considered for
participation in the program. During the offender’s term in the county jail,
the court retains jurisdiction to modify its specification regarding the
offender’s participation in the county jail industry program.
      (4)   If a person is sentenced to a jail term pursuant to this section,
the court may impose as part of the sentence pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.28 a
reimbursement sanction, and, if the local detention facility in which the term
is to be served is covered by a policy adopted pursuant to Ohio R.C. 307.93,
341.14, 341.19, 341.21, 341.23, 753.02, 753.04, 753.16, 2301.56, or 2947.19 and
Ohio R.C. 2929.37, both of the following apply:
         A.   The court shall specify both of the following as part of the
sentence:
            1.   If the person is presented with an itemized bill pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 2929.37 for payment of the costs of confinement, the person is
required to pay the bill in accordance with that section.
            2.   If the person does not dispute the bill described in
subsection (b)(4)A.1. of this section and does not pay the bill by the times
specified in Ohio R.C. 2929.37, the clerk of the court may issue a certificate
of judgment against the person as described in that section.
         B.   The sentence automatically includes any certificate of judgment
issued as described in subsection (b)(4)A.2. of this section.
            (ORC 2929.24)
   (c)   Organizations. Regardless of the penalties provided in subsections (a)
and (b) hereof, an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to Section
501.11 shall be fined, in accordance with this section. The court shall fix the
fine as follows:
Type of Misdemeanor                           Maximum Fine
First degree                                  $5,000.00
Second degree                                 4,000.00
Third degree                                  3,000.00
Fourth degree                                 2,000.00
Minor                                         1,000.00
Misdemeanor not specifically classified       2,000.00
Minor misdemeanor not specifically classified 1,000.00
                                              
 
 
      (1)   When an organization is convicted of an offense that is not
specifically classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty
plainly indicates a purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon
organizations, then the penalty so provided shall be imposed in lieu of the
penalty provided in this subsection (c).
      (2)   When an organization is convicted of an offense that is not
specifically classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than
the fine that is provided in this subsection (c), then the penalty imposed
shall be pursuant to the penalty provided for the violation of the section
defining the offense.
      (3)   This subsection (c) does not prevent the imposition of available
civil sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to
Section
501.11 , either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to this
subsection (c).
         (ORC 2929.31)
CHAPTER 505
Animals and Fowl
505.01   Dogs at large.
505.02   Keeping of poultry and fowl.
505.03   Poultry and fowl at large.
505.04   Abandoning animals.
505.05   Killing or injuring animals.
505.06   Poisoning animals, endanger children by poison.
505.07   Cruelty to animals generally.
505.071   Cruelty to companion animals.
505.08   Nuisance conditions prohibited.
505.09   Barking or howling dogs.
505.10   Hunting prohibited.
505.11   Animal bites; quarantine and reporting.
505.12   Dog owner, keeper liable for damage to public property.
505.121   Nuisance, dangerous and vicious dogs.
505.13   Bird sanctuary created.
505.14   Coloring rabbits or baby poultry; sale or display of poultry.
505.15   Trapping of fur-bearing animals.
505.16   Rights of blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired
person, or trainer with assistance dog.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
See
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.
Dog registration - see ORC 955.01.
Driving animals upon roadway - see TRAF.
303.05,
303.06
Offensive odors from places where animals are kept or fed - see GEN. OFF.
521.09.
City authority to regulate animals running at large - see ORC 715.24.
Animals running at large - ORC 951.01.
State regulations of dogs - liability for injury by killing of - See ORC
955.28.
Prohibition of kennels - see ZONING.
 
 
505.01 DOGS AT LARGE.
   (a)   The owner or keeper of every dog shall at all times keep such dog
confined upon the premises of such owner or keeper except as set forth below:
      (1)   Service animals may be off the premises of such owner or keeper
while engaged in the performance of duties, so long as the service animal is
kept under the direct control of the owner, keeper, or agent thereof. For
purposes of this section, an animal is a service animal if it is classified as
a "service animal" under any provision of federal law, or as an "assistance
dog" or "animal assistant" under any provision of the Ohio Revised Code or Ohio
Administrative Code;
      (2)   Dogs shall be permitted to be upon the sidewalk and street rights-
of-way areas, but only to the extent that they are securely leashed and under
the reasonable control of the owner, keeper or agent thereof. Dogs shall also
be permitted to be within the fenced areas of the Dog Park at Creager Field,
with or without a leash, so long as the owner, keeper, or agent thereof is also
present.
      (3)   It shall be prima-facie evidence that a dog is not under reasonable
control if it chases, injures or kills any person or domestic animal or damages
or commits any nuisance upon property other than that of its owner, regardless
of whether the dog was leashed at the time;
      (4)   Dogs shall be permitted to be upon property other than that of
their owners or keepers (and other than sidewalk and street rights-of-way) only
in those situations where the owner of such other property has consented to the
pets being there.
   (b)   Any dog found beyond the premises of its owner or keeper in
circumstances in which none of the exceptions set forth above is applicable may
be seized, impounded and placed in animal shelter facilities designated by or
maintained by the City. In order to obtain the release of any such dog from the
animal shelter facilities, any and all boarding fees fixed by the animal
shelter must be paid for each day the dog was housed. The animal shelter
facilities shall hold the dog for its owner or keeper for three full days of
public display after the day on which it was delivered to the shelter, during
which time it shall neither be destroyed (unless immediate humane destruction
is necessary because of illness or injury) nor made available for adoption.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
Strict liability is intended to be imposed for a violation of this section. If
the offender has previously been convicted of a similar offense or offenses in
this City within the past twelve months, whether with regard to the same or a
different dog, the following minimum fines (plus court costs) shall be imposed
and shall not be suspended by the Court:
 
Second offense                $50.00
Third offense                 $75.00
Fourth offense                $100.00
Fifth and additional offenses $125.00
(Ord. 4875. Passed 1-7-19.)
505.02 KEEPING OF POULTRY AND FOWL.
   (a)   No person shall keep or maintain within the limits of the City any
yard, place or pen wherein are kept chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys or other
fowl generally classed as poultry. Each day that such yard, place or pen is
kept or maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
   (b)   No person, whether he is the owner or occupant of property within the
limits of the City, or the agent, servant or employee of any person, shall
assist in the maintenance of any yard, place or pen wherein are kept or
maintained chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys or other fowl generally classed as
poultry.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1412. Passed 12-4-44.)
505.03 POULTRY AND FOWL AT LARGE.
   (a)   No person owning or having the charge of any chicken, duck, goose,
turkey, or other fowl generally classed as poultry shall allow any such fowl to
run at large within the City.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 299. Passed 11-1-29.)
505.04 ABANDONING ANIMALS.
   (a)   No owner or keeper of a dog, cat or other domestic animal shall
abandon such animal. (ORC 959.01)
   (b)   Whoever violates subsection (a) hereof is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the first degree on
each subsequent offense.
(ORC 959.99 (E)(3))
505.05 KILLING OR INJURING ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully, and without the consent of
the owner, kill or injure a farm animal, dog, cat or other domestic animal that
is the property of another. This section does not apply to a licensed
veterinarian acting in an official capacity, or to trespassing animals as set
forth in Ohio R.C. 959.04.
(ORC 959.02)
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided herein, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the value of the animal killed
or the injury done amounts to three hundred dollars ($300.00) or more, such
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. (ORC 959.99(B))
505.06 POISONING ANIMALS, ENDANGERING CHILDREN BY POISON.
   (a)   No person other than a licensed veterinarian acting in such capacity
shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of the owner administer
poison to a farm animal, dog, cat, to any fowl generally classed as poultry or
to any other domestic animal that is the property of another. No person shall,
willfully and without the consent of the owner place any poisoned food where it
may be easily found and eaten by any of such animals, fowl or by children,
either upon his own lands or the lands of another.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. (ORC 959.03, ORC 959.99 (C)) (Ord. 2877. Passed 5-20-74.)
505.07 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS GENERALLY.
   (a)   No person shall:
      (1)   Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary sustenance,
unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, or impound or
confine an animal without supplying it during such confinement with a
sufficient quantity of good wholesome food and water;
      (2)   Impound or confine an animal without affording it, during such
confinement, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow or excessive direct
sunlight if it can reasonably be expected that the animal would otherwise
become sick or in some other way suffer. This subsection (a)(2) does not apply
to animals impounded or confined prior to slaughter. For the purpose of this
section, "shelter" means a man-made enclosure, windbreak, sunshade or natural
windbreak or sunshade that is developed from the earth's contour, tree
development or vegetation;
      (3)   Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or inhuman manner;
      (4)   Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or fowl, swine, sheep or
goats in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air, nor feed
cows on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk;
      (5)   Detain livestock in railroad cars or compartments longer than
twenty-eight hours after they are so placed without supplying them with
necessary food, water and attention, nor permit such livestock to be so crowded
as to overlie, crush, wound or kill each other.
   (b)    Upon the written request of the owner or person in custody of any
particular shipment of livestock, which written request shall be separate and
apart from any printed bill of lading or other railroad form, the length of
time in which such livestock may be detained in any cars or compartments
without food, water and attention, may be extended to thirty-six hours without
penalty therefor. This section does not prevent the dehorning of cattle. (ORC
959.13)
   (c)    Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
second degree. In addition, the court may order the offender to forfeit the
animal or livestock and may provide for its disposition including, but not
limited to, the sale of the animal or livestock. If an animal or livestock is
forfeited and sold pursuant to this subsection, the proceeds from the sale
first shall be applied to pay the expenses incurred with regard to the care of
the animal from the time it was taken from the custody of the former owner. The
balance of the proceeds from the sale, if any, shall be paid to the former
owner of the animal. (ORC 959.99(D))
505.071 CRUELTY TO COMPANION ANIMALS.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Animal rescue for dogs”, has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
956.01.
      (2)   “Boarding kennel” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 956.01.
      (3)   “Companion animal” means any animal that is kept inside a
residential dwelling and any dog or cat regardless of where it is kept,
including a pet store as defined in Ohio R.C. 956.01. The term does not include
livestock or any wild animal.
      (4)   “Cruelty”, “torment” and “torture” have the same meaning as in Ohio
R.C. 1717.01.
      (5)   “Dog kennel” means an animal rescue for dogs, a boarding kennel or
a training kennel.
      (6)   “Federal Animal Welfare Act” means the “Laboratory Animal Act of
1966", Pub. L. No. 89-544, 80 Stat. 350 (1966), 7 U.S.C. §2131 et seq., as
amended by the “Animal Welfare Act of 1970", Pub. L. No. 91-579, 84 Stat. 1560
(1970), the “Animal Welfare Act Amendments of 1976", Pub. L. No. 94-279, 90
Stat. 417 (1976) and the “Food Security Act of 1985", Pub. L. No. 99-198, 99
Stat. 1354 (1985), and as it may be subsequently amended.
      (7)   “Practice of veterinary medicine” has the same meaning as in Ohio
R.C. 4741.01.
      (8)   “Residential dwelling” means a structure or shelter or the portion
of a structure or shelter that is used by one or more humans for the purpose of
a habitation.
      (9)   “Wild animal” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 1531.01.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or
maim, cruelly beat, poison, needlessly kill, or commit an act of cruelty
against a companion animal.
   (c)   No person who confines or who is the custodian or caretaker of a
companion animal shall negligently do any of the following:
      (1)   Torture, torment or commit an act or cruelty against the companion
animal;
      (2)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance, or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water, if it can reasonably
be expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other
way as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement;
      (3)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
   (d)   No person who confines or who is the custodian or caretaker of a
companion animal shall recklessly deprive the companion animal of necessary
sustenance or confine the companion animal without supplying it during the
confinement with sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water.
   (e)   No owner, manager or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is the
custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall negligently do any of the
following:
      (1)   Torture, torment, or commit an act of cruelty against the companion
animal;
      (2)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance, or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water, if it can reasonably
be expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other
way as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement;
      (3)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
   (f)   Subsections (b), (c), (d) and (e) of this section do not apply to any
of the following:
      (1)   A companion animal used in scientific research conducted by an
institution in accordance with the federal animal welfare act and related
regulations;
      (2)   The lawful practice of veterinary medicine by a person who has been
issued a license, temporary permit, or registration certificate to do so under
Ohio R.C. Chapter 4741;
      (3)   Dogs being used or intended for use for hunting or field trial
purposes, provided that the dogs are being treated in accordance with usual and
commonly accepted practices for the care of hunting dogs;
      (4)   The use of common training devices, if the companion animal is
being treated in accordance with usual and commonly accepted practices for the
training of animals;
      (5)   The administering of medicine to a companion animal that was
properly prescribed by a person who has been issued a license, temporary
permit, or registration certificate under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (g)   Notwithstanding any section of the Ohio Revised Code that otherwise
provides for the distribution of fine moneys, the Clerk of Court shall forward
all fines the Clerk collects that are so imposed for any violation of this
section to the Treasurer of the municipality, whose county humane society or
law enforcement agency is to be paid the fine money as determined under this
section. The Treasurer shall pay the fine moneys to the county humane society
or the county, township, municipal corporation, or state law enforcement agency
in this state that primarily was responsible for or involved in the
investigation and prosecution of the violation. If a county humane society
receives any fine moneys under this section, the county humane society shall
use the fine moneys either to provide the training that is required for humane
society agents under Ohio R.C. 1717.061 or to provide additional training for
humane society agents.
(ORC 959.131)
   (h)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (b) or (d) hereof is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense. On each subsequent offense
such person is guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate
State law.
      (2)   Whoever violates subsection (c) hereof is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the first degree
on each subsequent offense.
      (3)   Whoever violates subsection (e) hereof is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
      (4)   A.   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of this section to forfeit to an impounding agency, as
defined in Ohio R.C. 959.132, any or all of the companion animals in that
person’s ownership or care. The court also may prohibit or place limitations on
the person’s ability to own or care for any companion animals for a specified
or indefinite period of time.
         B.   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of this section to reimburse an impounding agency for the
reasonably necessary costs incurred by the agency for the care of a companion
animal that the agency impounded as a result of the investigation or
prosecution of the violation, provided that the costs were not otherwise paid
under Ohio R.C. 959.132.
      (5)   If a court has reason to believe that a person who is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of this section has a mental or emotional
disorder that contributed to the violation, the court may impose as a community
control sanction or as a condition of probation a requirement that the offender
undergo psychological evaluation or counseling. The court shall order the
offender to pay the costs of the evaluation or counseling. (ORC 959.99)
   
505.08 NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall keep or harbor any animal or fowl in the City so as to
create noxious or offensive odors or unsanitary conditions which are a menace
to the health, comfort or safety of the public. No person shall keep or harbor
any animal or fowl in the City except those of a domesticated species or
variety, customarily accepted as house pets in this City. Any action prohibited
by this paragraph shall be deemed to constitute a public nuisance. (See
521.10 as to offensive odors from places where animals are kept or fed.)
(Ord. 2877. Passed 5-20-74.)
   (b)   Any animal, other than a wild animal under the jurisdiction of the
Ohio Department of Natural Resources, that defecates upon any public or private
property, other than the property of the owner or person in charge or control
of such animal, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. Where the owner or
person in charge or control of such animal immediately removes all feces
deposited by such animal and disposes of the same in a sanitary manner, such
public nuisance shall be considered abated and shall not be subject to penalty.
   (c)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for
the first offense within a rolling twelve month period and not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) for each subsequent offense within a rolling twelve month
period. (Ord. 4829. Passed 11-7-16.)
505.09 BARKING OR HOWLING DOGS.
   (a)   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the City which, by
frequent or habitual barking, howling, or yelping during part or all of any day
or night, creates unreasonably loud and disturbing noises of such a character,
intensity, and duration as to disturb the peace, quiet and good order of the
City.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 3804. Passed 9-19-88.)
505.10 HUNTING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall hunt, kill or attempt to kill any animal or fowl by
any means other than the use of a firearm as defined by Ohio Revised Code
Section 2923.11.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 4902. Passed 1-6-20.)
505.11 ANIMAL BITES; QUARANTINE AND REPORTING.
   (a)   Whenever any animal shall bite any person, the Health Commissioner may
order such animal quarantined for a period extending no longer than 10 days
from the time of the biting. All expenses incurred for the keeping of such
animal and for the necessary tests to determine whether rabies exists shall be
borne exclusively by the owner or keeper of the animal. No person, having
knowledge of the existence of any rabies or the fact that any animal has bitten
any other person shall fail to immediately report such information to the City
Manager.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
505.12 DOG OWNER, KEEPER LIABLE FOR DAMAGE TO PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   The owner, keeper or harborer of any dog which damages or destroys park or
public property shall be liable for the full value of the property damaged or
destroyed in addition to any penalty imposed for a violation of this chapter.
505.121 NUISANCE, DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS DOGS.
   (a)   Pursuant to Section 955.221 of the Ohio Revised Code, the city of
Oakwood hereby adopts all provisions of state law pertaining to nuisance,
dangerous, and vicious dogs and the ownership, keeping, or harboring thereof,
including but not limited to the provisions set forth in Sections 955.11,
955.22, 955.222, 955.26, 955.261, and 955.99 of the Ohio Revised Code, as the
same may be updated, amended, and replaced from time to time.
   (b)   In order to correlate section and subsection numbers of the Ohio
Revised Code provisions with the numbers assigned to sections and subsections
within this part of the Codified Ordinances, the following convention shall be
followed: all Ohio Revised Code numbers within Chapter 955 shall be deemed to
be preceded by the section number 505.121, with the number 955 omitted and the
subsection following an additional decimal point. For example, Ohio Revised
Code Section 955.21 would be referenced locally as Oakwood Ordinance
505.121.21 , and Ohio Revised Code Section 955.99 would be referenced locally
as Oakwood Ordinance 505.121.99.
   (c)   For purposes of determining the number of prior criminal convictions
under Section  505.121 .22, convictions under state law and convictions under
local ordinance shall be deemed to be substantially equivalent offenses and no
distinction between the two shall be made.
(Ord. 4783. Passed 2-3-14.)
505.13 BIRD SANCTUARY CREATED.
   A bird sanctuary is hereby created under City supervision in each of the
following parks in the City: Elizabeth Gardens and Houk Stream. (Ord. 932.
Passed 4-21-30.)
505.14 COLORING RABBITS OR BABY POULTRY; SALE OR DISPLAY OF POULTRY.
   (a)   No person shall die or otherwise color any rabbit or baby poultry,
including but not limited to, chicks and ducklings. No person shall sell, offer
for sale, expose for sale, raffle or give away any rabbit or baby poultry which
has been dyed or otherwise colored. No poultry younger than four weeks of age
may be sold, given away or otherwise distributed to any person in lots of less
than three. Stores, shops, vendors and others offering young poultry for sale
or other distribution shall provide and operate brooders or other heating
devices that may be necessary to maintain poultry in good health, and shall
keep adequate food and water available to the poultry at all times.
 
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 925.62)
505.15 TRAPPING OF FUR-BEARING ANIMALS.
   (a)   Definitions:
      (1)   “Fur-bearing animal" means any animal, the pelt or hide of which
has any commercial value, including, but not limited to, minks, weasels,
raccoons, skunks, opossums, rabbits, squirrels, woodchucks, muskrats, fox,
deer, bears and beavers, and shall also mean cats.
      (2)   "Trapping" means securing or attempting to secure possession of a
fur- bearing animal by means of setting, placing, drawing or using any device
that is designed to close upon, hold fast, confine or otherwise capture a fur-
bearing animal, whether or not such means result in the capture thereof. It
includes every act of assistance to any other person in capturing fur- bearing
animals by means of such device, whether or not such means result in such
capturing.
   (b)   No person shall, except as hereinafter provided, engage in the
trapping of any fur- bearing animal within the City. For purposes of the
enforcement of this section, the placing or setting of a trap of any kind or
variety, and/or possession of a leg-hold trap on public property, shall
constitute a rebuttable presumption that the person placing, setting or
possessing said trap is engaged in the trapping of a fur-bearing animal.
   (c)   In the event the existence of fur-bearing animals shall constitute a
nuisance on any property within the City, the owner or tenant of said property
shall notify the Director of the Public Safety Department of such condition.
Upon receipt of such notice, the Public Safety Director shall review and
investigate said condition. If in the opinion of the Director, a nuisance
condition is found to exist that may be corrected by the use of trapping, said
owner or tenant may engage in the trapping of said animals in the manner
authorized by the Director, in accordance with specifications prepared by the
Public Safety Department. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an owner or tenant is
not required to notify the Director of any animal that constitutes a nuisance
by virtue of its presence inside a home or business, and may engage in the
trapping and removal of said animal to the extent permitted by the Ohio
Division of Wildlife.
   (d)   Nothing contained herein shall be construed to restrict or prohibit
the use of mouse or rat traps commonly used for household or business for pest
control.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor
on a first offense and shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on
all subsequent offenses. (Ord. 4791. Passed 8-18-14.)
505.16 RIGHTS OF BLIND, DEAF OR HEARING IMPAIRED, OR MOBILITY IMPAIRED PERSON,
OR TRAINER WITH ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (a)   When either a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired
person, or a training of an assistance dog is accompanied by an assistance dog,
the person or trainer, as applicable, is entitled to the full and equal
accommodations, advantages, facilities, and privileges of all public
conveyances, hotels, and lodging places, all places of public accommodation,
amusement, or resort, and other places to which the general public is invited,
and may take the dog into such conveyances and places, subject only to the
conditions and limitations applicable to all persons not so accompanied, except
that:
      (1)   The dog shall not occupy a seat in any public conveyance; and
      (2)   The dog shall be leashed while using the facilities of a common
carrier.
      (3)   Any dog in training to become an assistance dog shall be covered by
a liability insurance policy provided by the nonprofit special agency engaged
in such work protecting members of the public against personal injury or
property damage caused by the dog.
   (b)   No person shall deprive a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility
impaired person, or a training of an assistance dog who is accompanied by an
assistance dog, of any of the advantages, facilities or privileges provided in
subsection (a) of this section, nor charge the person or training a fee or
charge for the dog.
(ORC 955.43(A), (B))
   (c)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Assistance dog” means a dog that has been trained by a nonprofit
or for- profit special agency and that is one of the following:
         A.   A guide dog;
         B.   A hearing dog;
         C.   A service dog.
      (2)   “Blind” means either of the following:
         A.   Vision 20/20 or less in the better eye with proper correction;
         B.   Field defect in the better eye with proper correction that
contracts the peripheral field so that the diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than twenty degrees.
      (3)   “Guide dog” means a dog that has been trained or is in training to
assist a blind person.
      (4)   “Hearing dog” means a dog that has been trained or is in training
to assist a deaf or hearing-impaired person.
      (5)   “Institutions of education” means:
         A.   Any state university or college as defined in Ohio R.C. 3345.32;
         B.   Any private college or university that holds a certificate of
authorization issued by the Ohio Board of Regents pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter
1713;
         C.   Any elementary or secondary school operated by a board of
education;
         D.   Any chartered or nonchartered nonpublic elementary or secondary
school; or
         E.   Any school issued a certificate of registration by the state
Board of Career Colleges and Schools.
      (6)   “Person with a mobility impairment” means any person, regardless of
age, who is subject to a physiological impairment regardless of its cause,
nature or extent that renders the person unable to move about without the aid
of crutches, a wheelchair, or any other form of support, or that limits the
person’s functional ability to ambulate, climb, descend, sit, rise, or perform
any related function. The phrase includes a person with a neurological or
psychological disability that limits the person’s functional ability to
ambulate, climb, descend, sit, rise or perform any related function. The phrase
also includes a person with a seizure disorder and a person who is diagnosed
with autism.
      (7)   “Service dog” means a dog that has been trained or is in training
to assist a person with a mobility impairment.
         (ORC 955.011(B), 955.43(C))
   (d)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. (ORC 955.99(D))
505.99 PENALTY.
   (EDITOR'S NOTE: See Section
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.)
CHAPTER 509
Disorderly Conduct and Peace Disturbance
509.01   Riot.
509.011   Inciting to violence.
509.02   Failure to disperse.
509.03   Disorderly conduct; intoxication.
509.04   Disturbing a lawful meeting.
509.05   Misconduct at an emergency.
509.06   Inducing panic.
509.07   Making false alarms.
509.08   Hawking by peddlers.
509.09   Suspicious persons.
509.10   Prohibited use of loudspeakers and amplifiers for advertising.
509.11   Picketing before or about a residence or dwelling.
509.12   Permitting unreasonable noise.
509.13   Unreasonable noises in construction.
509.14   Impeding public passage of an emergency service responder.
509.99   Penalty.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
See sectional histories for similar State law
Use of force to suppress riot - see Ohio R.C. 2917.05
Cordoning off riot areas, prohibiting sales of firearms and explosives - see
Ohio R.C. 3761.16
Emergency suspension of permits and sales by Director of
Liquor Control - see Ohio R.C 4301.251
Criminal trespass - see GEN. OFF.
541.05
 
 
509.01 RIOT.
   (a)   No person shall participate with four or more others in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of Section
509.03:
      (1)   With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a
misdemeanor, other than disorderly conduct;
      (2)   With purpose to intimidate a public official or employee into
taking or refraining from official action, or with purpose to hinder, impede or
obstruct a function of government;
      (3)   With purpose to hinder, impede or obstruct the orderly process of
administration or instruction at an educational institution, or to interfere
with or disrupt lawful activities carried on at such institution.
   (b)   No person shall participate with four or more others with purpose to
do an act with unlawful force or violence, even though such act might otherwise
be lawful.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. (ORC 2917.03)
509.011 INCITING TO VIOLENCE.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly engage in conduct designed to urge or incite
another to commit any offense of violence, when either of the following apply:
      (1)   The conduct takes place under circumstances that create a clear and
present danger that any offense of violence will be committed;
      (2)   The conduct proximately results in the commission of any offense of
violence.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inciting to violence. If
the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or incited to
commit is a misdemeanor, inciting to violence is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. (ORC 2917.01)
509.02 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (a)    Where five or more persons are participating in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of Section
509.03, and there are other persons in the vicinity whose presence creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or property or of serious public
inconvenience, annoyance or alarm, a law enforcement officer or other public
official may order the participants and such other persons to disperse. No
person shall knowingly fail to obey such order.
   (b)   Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c)(3) hereof, failure
to disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in subsection (a) hereof, creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind. (ORC 2917.04)
509.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT; INTOXICATION.
   (a)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance or alarm to
another by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or offensively coarse utterance, gesture
or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language to any
person, which by its very utterance or usage inflicts injury or tends to incite
an immediate breach of the peace;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting or challenging another, under circumstances in
which such conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway or right of way, or to, from, within or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender;
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (b)   No person, while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance or alarm
to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if the
offender were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have that effect on
others;
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to the offender or another, or to the property of another.
   (c)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse, is not a violation of subsection
(b) hereof.
   (d)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that person is voluntarily intoxicated for purposes
of subsection (b) hereof.
   (e)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in subsections (e)(3) and (e)(4),
disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         A.   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist.
         B.   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone.
         C.   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person, or other authorized person who is engaged in the person’s duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind.
         D.   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility.
      (4)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to three or more violations of subsection (b) of this section, a violation of
subsection (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (f)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Emergency medical services person” is the singular of “emergency
medical services personnel” as defined in Ohio R.C. 2133.21.
      (2)   “Emergency facility person” is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in Ohio R.C. 2909.04.
      (3)   “Emergency facility” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2909.04.
      (4)   “Committed in the vicinity of a school” has the same meaning as in
Ohio R.C. 2925.01. (ORC 2917.11)
509.04 DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act which obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of
such meeting, procession or gathering;
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture or display which outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting. Except as otherwise provided in this section, disturbing a lawful
meeting is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Disturbing a lawful meeting is a
misdemeanor of the first degree if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The violation is committed with the intent to disturb or disquiet
any assemblage of people met for religious worship at a tax-exempt place of
worship, regardless of whether the conduct is within the place at which the
assemblage is held or is on the property on which that place is located and
disturbs the order and solemnity of the assemblage.
      (2)   The violation is committed with the intent to prevent, disrupt, or
interfere with a virtual meeting or gathering of people for religious worship,
through use of a computer, computer system, telecommunications device, or other
electronic device or system, or in any other manner.
   (c)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Computer” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2913.01.
      (2)   “Computer system” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2913.01.
      (3)   “Telecommunications device” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
2913.01.
      (4)   “Virtual meeting or gathering” means a meeting or gathering by
interactive video conference or teleconference, or by a combination thereof.
         (ORC 2917.12)
509.05 MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person, or
other authorized person, engaged in the person’s duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility;
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer’s duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
   (b)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative’s duties.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an emergency.
Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, misconduct at an emergency is
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If a violation of this section creates a
risk of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (d)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Emergency medical services person” is the singular of “emergency
medical services personnel” as defined in Ohio R.C. 2133.21.
      (2)   “Emergency facility person” is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in Ohio R.C. 2909.04.
      (3)   “Emergency facility” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2909.04.
         (ORC 2917.13)
509.06 INDUCING PANIC.
   (a)    No person shall cause the evacuation of any public place, or
otherwise cause serious public inconvenience or alarm, by doing any of the
following:
      (1)   Initiating or circulating a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime or other catastrophe, knowing that such report
or warning is false;
      (2)   Threatening to commit any offense of violence;
      (3)   Committing any offense, with reckless disregard of the likelihood
that its commission will cause serious public inconvenience or alarm.
   (b)    Division (a) hereof does not apply to any person conducting an
authorized fire or emergency drill.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inducing panic, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If inducing panic results in physical harm to
any person, economic harm of one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more, if the
public place involved in a violation of this section is a school or an
institution of higher education, or if the violation pertains to a purported,
threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, inducing panic is a
felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
   (d)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section of
the Codified Ordinances may be prosecuted under this section, the other
section, or both sections.
   (e)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Biological agent” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2917.33.
      (2)   “Economic harm” means any of the following:
         A.   All direct, incidental, and consequential pecuniary harm suffered
by a victim as a result of criminal conduct. “Economic harm” as described in
this division includes, but is not limited to, all of the following:
            1.   All wages, salaries, or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            2.   The cost of all wages, salaries, or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            3.   The overhead costs incurred for the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
            4.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
         B.   All costs incurred by the Municipality as a result of, or in
making any response to, the criminal conduct that constituted the violation of
this section or Section
509.07 , including, but not limited to, all costs so incurred by any law
enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue personnel, or emergency medical
services personnel of the state or the political subdivision.
      (3)   “Emergency medical services personnel” has the same meaning as in
Ohio R.C. 2133.21.
      (4)   “Institution of higher education” means any of the following:
         A.   A state university or college as defined in Ohio R.C. 3345.12(A)
(1), community college, state community college, university branch, or
technical college;
         B.   A private, nonprofit college, university or other post-secondary
institution located in this State that possesses a certificate of authorization
issued by the Chancellor of Higher Education pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter
1713.
         C.   A post-secondary institution with a certificate of registration
issued by the State Board of Career Colleges and Schools under Ohio R.C.
Chapter 3332. (ORC 2917.31)
      (5)   “School” means any school operated by a board of education or any
school for which the Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum
standards under Ohio R.C. 3301.07, whether or not any instruction,
extracurricular activities, or training provided by the school is being
conducted at the time a violation of this section is committed.
      (6)   “Weapon of mass destruction” means any of the following:
         A.   Any weapon that is designed or intended to cause death or serious
physical harm through the release, dissemination, or impact of toxic or
poisonous chemicals, or their precursors;
         B.   Any weapon involving a disease organism or biological agent;
         C.   Any weapon that is designed to release radiation or radioactivity
at a level dangerous to human life;
         D.   Any of the following, except to the extent that the item or
device in question is expressly excepted from the definition of “destructive
device” pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(4) and regulations issued under that
section:
            1.   Any explosive, incendiary, or poison gas bomb, grenade, rocket
having a propellant charge of more than four ounces, missile having an
explosive or incendiary charge of more than one-quarter ounce, mine, or similar
device;
            2.   Any combination of parts either designed or intended for use
in converting any item or device into any item or device described in division
(e)(3)D.1. of this section and from which an item or device described in that
division may be readily assembled.
509.07 MAKING FALSE ALARMS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm;
      (2)   Knowingly cause a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, public or private, for dealing with
emergencies involving a risk of physical harm to persons or property;
      (3)   Report to any law enforcement agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing that such offense did not occur.
      (4)    Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to impede the operation of a critical
infrastructure facility.
   (b)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
fire or emergency drill.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making false alarms, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation of this section results in
economic harm of one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more, or if a violation of
this section pertains to a purported, threatened, or actual use of a weapon of
mass destruction, making false alarms is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate State law.
   (d)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section of
the Codified Ordinances may be prosecuted under this section, the other
section, or both sections.
   (e)    As used in this section:
      (1)   “Critical infrastructure facility” has the same meaning as in Ohio
R.C. 2911.21.
      (2)   “Economic harm”and “weapon of mass destruction” have the same
meaning as in Section
509.06 . (ORC 2917.32)
509.08 HAWKING BY PEDDLERS.
   (a)   The ringing of bells, blowing of horns, playing loud music or
announcements, or shouting by hawkers, peddlers or itinerant merchants in the
City for the purpose of attracting attention to their services is declared to
be a nuisance and no person shall make such noises in the City. (See
509,10  below.) (Ord. 520. Passed 8-3-25.)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
509.09 SUSPICIOUS PERSONS.
   (a)   No suspicious person shall be within the City. "Suspicious person"
means any person who has possession or custody of any instrument, tool or other
implement that may reasonably be inferred to have been designed for or be
employed in the commission of any felony or misdemeanor, and who cannot give a
reasonable account for such possession or custody.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2720. Passed 2-15-71.)
509.10 PROHIBITED USE OF LOUDSPEAKERS AND AMPLIFIERS FOR ADVERTISING.
   (a)   No person shall use, operate or permit to be played, used or operated
any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound
amplifier or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound
which is cast upon the public streets for the purpose of commercial advertising
or attracting the attention of the public to any building or structure. (See
509.08 above.)
 
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2047. Passed 10-6-58.)
509.11 PICKETING BEFORE OR ABOUT A RESIDENCE OR DWELLING.
   (a)   Declaration. It is hereby declared that the protection and
preservation of the home is the keystone of democratic government; that the
public health and welfare and the good order of the community require that
members of the community be able to enjoy in their homes and dwellings a
feeling of well-being, tranquility and privacy and, when absent from their
homes and dwellings, carry with them the sense of security inherent in the
assurance that they may return to the enjoyment of their homes and dwellings;
that the practice of picketing that targets a particular individual at his
residence or dwelling causes emotional disturbance and distress to the
occupants, and obstructs and interferes with the free use of public sidewalks
and public ways of travel; that
such practice has as its object the harassing of such occupants; that without
resort to such practice full opportunity exists, and under the terms and
provisions of this ordinance will continue to exist, for the exercise of
freedom of speech and other constitutional rights; and that the provisions of
this section are necessary for the public interest to avoid the detrimental
results set forth above. This section shall be enforced pursuant to the United
States Supreme Court opinion in Frisby v. Schultz, 487 U.S. 474 (1988), and the
United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit opinion in Vittitow v.
City of Upper Arlington, 43 F.3d 1100 (6th Cir. 1995), cert. denied, 1995 WL
231157.
   (b)   No person shall directly target an individual within this City by
engaging in picketing that takes place solely in front of the individual's
residence or dwelling or in front of the residence, dwelling, or other property
that abuts the individual's residence or dwelling on either side.
 
   (c)   Whoever violates this section for the first time shall be guilty of a
fourth degree misdemeanor, and the minimum penalty shall be a fine of $200.00,
no portion of which may be suspended. Whoever violates this section for a
second or subsequent time shall be guilty of a third degree misdemeanor, and
the minimum penalty shall be a fine of not less than $400.00 and imprisonment
for not less than 30 days, no portion of either to be suspended.
(Ord. 3912. Passed 12-4-89; Ord. 4302. Passed 6-19-95).
509.12 PERMITTING UNREASONABLE NOISE
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee or occupant of any premises
in a residential district to:
      (1)   Negligently during the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. permit
persons on the premises to make unreasonable noise so as to cause annoyance or
inconvenience to any other person, including but not limited to any public
safety officer.
      (2)   Knowingly during the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. permit
persons on the premises to make unreasonable noise so as to cause annoyance or
inconvenience to any other person, including but not limited to any public
safety officer.
 
   (b)   For the purpose of this section, a public safety officer shall be
competent to testify as to the circumstances of the incident and to express an
opinion as to the reasonableness of the noise, as to whether the noise caused
that officer annoyance or inconvenience and as the effect upon the
municipality.
 
   (c)   Whoever violates subsection (a)((1) as to a negligent offense is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor for a first offense and subject to a fine of not
more than $10.00 (plus court costs if the Judge deems it appropriate). A second
violation of that subsection (a)(1) within six months shall be deemed a minor
misdemeanor, subject to a minimum fine of $50.00 and court costs, no portion of
which sentence may be suspended. Any subsequent violation of subsection (a)(1)
within six months of any previous violation shall be a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree, subject to a minimum fine of $100.00 and court costs, no portion
of which sentence may be suspended.
   (d)   Whoever violates subsection (a)(2) as to offenses committed knowingly
is guilty of a minor misdemeanor for a first offense and subject to a fine of
not more than $20.00 (plus court costs if the Judge deems it appropriate). A
second violation of that subsection (a)(2) within six months shall be deemed a
minor misdemeanor, subject to a minimum fine of $100.00 and court costs, no
portion of which sentence may be suspended. Any subsequent violation of
subsection (a)(2) within six months of any previous violation shall be a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree, subject to a minimum fine of $200.00 and
court costs, no portion of which sentence may be suspended. (Ord. 3992. Passed
8-20-90.)
509.13 UNREASONABLE NOISES IN CONSTRUCTION.
   (a)   No person shall engage in any labor in the construction, maintenance,
improvement or repair of any building, structure, right-of-way, or tract of
land in the City during the following times:
      (1)   On a weekday or Saturday: after 9:00 p.m. or before 7:00 a.m., at
the prevailing time;
      (2)   On a Sunday or holiday: after 9:00 p.m. or before 9:00 a.m., at the
prevailing time;
   if in the performance of such labor any noise therefrom is audible outside
the building, structure, or the borders of such right-of-way or tract of land,
except emergency activities as described in Section
509.13(c).
   For purposes of this section, to "engage in any labor" shall include,
without limitation, the actual performance of work; the use, mobilization,
positioning or idling of trucks and/or equipment; and any other construction-
related activity performed in furtherance or anticipation of the construction,
maintenance, improvement or repair of a building, structure, right-of-way, or
tract of land in the City.
   (b)   No contractor, builder, foreman or other person directing the
performance of labor upon any building, structure, right-of-way or tract of
land in the City shall order, direct or permit any person under his control or
direction to engage in any labor in the construction, maintenance, improvement
or repair thereof during hours prohibited by Section
509.13(a) if, in the performance of such labor any noise therefrom is audible
outside the building, structure, or the borders of such right-of-way or tract
of land, emergency activities excepted.
   (c)   For purposes of this section, "emergency activities" shall mean only
the following:
      (1)   The restoration of utility services that have been damaged or
terminated due to material or equipment failure, accident, storm, falling tree,
or similar catastrophic event, in circumstances where a utility provider
holding a valid Certificate of Registration pursuant to Chapter 951 has
determined that immediate action is warranted;
      (2)   Activities by city personnel, or their designees, responding to an
emergency involving city utilities, roadways, structures or other
infrastructure; and
      (3)   Other activities reasonably and immediately necessary to prevent
loss of life or serious injury to persons or property.
   The term "emergency activities" shall not be construed so as to allow any
person to engage in labor of an ordinary or routine nature outside of permitted
hours, or labor which could be deferred until permitted hours without undue
risk to persons or property.
   (d)   Whoever violates any provision of Section
509.13 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor and fined not less than $25.00,
provided however that each subsequent violation within six (6) months shall
constitute a misdemeanor of the fourth degree and shall be subject to a fine of
not less than $150.00. Each calendar day during which such violation occurs
shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 4808. Passed 9-21-15.)
509.14 IMPEDING PUBLIC PASSAGE OF AN EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly obstruct any
highway, street, sidewalk, or any other public passage in such a manner as to
render the highway, street, sidewalk, or passage impassable without
unreasonable inconvenience or hazard if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The obstruction prevents an emergency vehicle from accessing a
highway or street, prevents an emergency service responder from responding to
an emergency, or prevents an emergency vehicle or an emergency service
responder from having access to an exit from an emergency.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a request or order from an emergency service
responder to remove or cease the obstruction, the person refuses to remove or
cease the obstruction.
   (b)   Subsection (a) of this section does not limit or affect the
application of Ohio R.C. 2921.31 or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code.
Any conduct that is a violation of subsection (a) of this section and that also
is a violation of Ohio R.C. 2921.31 or any other section of the Ohio Revised
Code may be prosecuted under this section, the other section of the Ohio
Revised Code or both sections.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawfully impeding public
passage of an emergency service responder, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (d)   As used in this section, “emergency service responder” has the same
meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2903.13. (ORC 2917.14)
509.99 PENALTY.
   (EDITOR'S NOTE: See Section
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.)
CHAPTER 511
Fair Housing
511.01   Statement of policy of City.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Fair housing - see ORC Ch. 4112.
Interfering with civil rights - see GEN. OFF.
525.13.
 
 
511.01 STATEMENT OF POLICY OF CITY.
   The City of Oakwood hereby declares its policy, in accord with the enacted
laws of the United States of America and of the State of Ohio and supplementing
any statement of policy in favor of fair housing heretofore adopted, that all
persons living or desiring to live in the City are entitled to a fair
opportunity to sell, purchase, transfer, lease, rent, occupy and finance
housing, free from any discrimination based on race, color, religion, national
origin, sex, disability, familial status, or any other characteristic protected
under state or federal laws. Furthermore, any person having reason to believe
they have been denied such fair opportunity, it shall be the policy of the City
to refer such complainant to regional or state anti-discrimination
organizations such as the Miami Valley Fair Housing Center and the Ohio Civil
Rights Commission.
(Ord. 4749. Passed 1-3-12.)
CHAPTER 513
Smoking on City-Owned Property
513.01   Findings; intent; scope.
513.02   Definitions.
513.03   Smoking in public places prohibited.
513.04   Complaints and enforcement.
513.05   Interpretation of chapter.
513.99   Penalties.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Illegal distribution of tobacco products - see GEN. OFF.
537.16
 
 
513.01 FINDINGS; INTENT; SCOPE.
   (a)   Medical studies have conclusively shown that smoking and exposure to
secondhand smoke from smoking causes illness and disease, including lung
cancer, heart disease, and respiratory illness. Smoking has been declared by
the state legislature, pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 3794, to be a statewide
concern and therefore, it is in the best interests of public health that
smoking be prohibited and/or restricted on property owned or under the control
of the City. Pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3794.01 et seq., there is now a uniform
state-wide minimum standard to protect people from the health hazards
associated with exposure to secondhand smoke from smoking. It is the intent of
this chapter to make air safer to breathe on all property owned or under the
control of the City by banning smoking outdoors on all such property except at
specifically designated smoking areas as may be provided herein.
   (b)   The provisions of this chapter shall be liberally construed so as to
further its purpose of protecting public health and shall prevail over any less
restrictive State or local laws or regulations. Nothing in this chapter shall
be construed to permit smoking where it is otherwise prohibited by other laws
or regulations.
   (c)   Pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3794.05, the City hereby declares any public
outdoor place, as defined herein, which is owned and/or controlled by the City
and not otherwise qualifying as a nonsmoking place under Ohio R.C. Chapter
3794, to be a nonsmoking place, except areas specifically designated as smoking
areas by the City Manager.
(Ord. 4792. Passed 11-3-14.)
513.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (a)   "Public outdoor place" means and refers to the following outdoor
spaces and related areas which are owned or under the control of the City of
Oakwood and open to the public without regard to whether or not a fee or
admission is charged:
      (1)   All public parks, including but not limited to Shafor Park,
Orchardly Park, Fairridge Park, the Dog Park at Creager Field, and Huffman
Park;
      (2)   All public natural areas, including but not limited to Houk Stream,
Francine's Garden, Elizabeth Gardens, Loy Gardens, and Smith Gardens;
      (3)   All exterior areas of the City Building at 30 Park Avenue, the J.
David Foell Public Works Center at 210 Shafor Boulevard, and the Oakwood
Community Center at 105 Patterson Road;
      (4)   Gardner Pool;
      (5)   All public pocket parks, including but not limited to parks located
on Oakwood Avenue at Schenck Avenue; Acorn Drive at Spirea Drive; Forrer
Boulevard at Schantz Avenue; the "Five Points" intersection of Far Hills and
Oakwood Avenues; Shafor Boulevard at Irving Avenue; Forrer Road at Ridgeway
Avenue; and the park between Wright Memorial Library and E.D. Smith Elementary
School.;
      (6)   All municipally-owned parking lots; and
      (7)   The Old River Sports Complex, including all sports fields, tennis
courts, and the parking lot.
“Public outdoor place" includes sidewalks and paths within the locations listed
above, but does not include City-owned rights of way, streets, sidewalks, or
alleys outside of locations listed above.
   (b)   "Smoking" means inhaling, exhaling, burning, lighting, activating, or
carrying:
      (1)   Any lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe, or other lighted smoking device
for burning tobacco or any other plant;
      (2)   Any activated electronic cigarette.
"Smoking" does not include the burning of incense, smudge sticks, or similar
items in a religious ceremony.
   (c)   "Electronic cigarette" means any electronic product or device that
produces a vapor that delivers nicotine or any other substance to the person
inhaling from the device to simulate smoking and that is likely to be offered
to or purchased by consumers as an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, or electronic pipe. "Electronic cigarette" does not
include:
      (1)   Any product that is a "drug" as that term is defined in 21 U.S.C.
321(g)(1);
      (2)   Any product that is a "device" as that term is defined in 21 U.S.C.
321(h);
      (3)   Any product that is a "combination product" as described in 21
U.S.C. 353(g). (Ord. 4792. Passed 11-3-14.)
513.03 SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Smoking is hereby prohibited in a public outdoor place as defined in
Section
513.02, except in specific areas designated as smoking areas by the City
Manager. In designating areas where smoking may be permitted, the City Manager
shall endeavor, as much as possible, to keep smoking away from doorways, gates,
and areas of pedestrian traffic.
   (b)   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire, or in any
manner retaliate against an individual for exercising any right, including
reporting a violation, or performing any obligation under this chapter.
   (c)   No person found to be smoking in a public outdoor place shall fail to
immediately cease said activity when requested to do so by a Public Safety
Officer or person charged with management or care of any City-owned park or
property.
   (d)   Lack of intent to violate a provision of this chapter shall not be a
defense to a violation. (Ord. 4792. Passed 11-3-14.)
513.04 COMPLAINTS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   Citizen complaints of violations of this chapter may be directed to the
Department of Public Safety, or to the city department charged with management
or care of any City-owned park or property. Enforcement will be driven
primarily by complaints, although this provision shall not be construed to
prohibit officer-initiated enforcement. The Director of Public Safety shall
develop an enforcement policy designed to resolve complaints by warnings
whenever possible, and to reserve citations for repeat offenders or those for
whom a warning is unlikely to deter further violation of this chapter. (Ord.
4792. Passed 11-3-14.)
513.05 INTERPRETATION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall not be interpreted or construed to permit smoking where
it is otherwise prohibited by law or to relieve any person from any liability
arising from exposure to tobacco smoke. (Ord. 4792. Passed 11-3-14.)
513.99 PENALTIES.
   (a)   Whoever violates Section
513.03(a), (b) or (d) hereof is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. Upon a
conviction for a first offense the fine shall be not more than ten dollars
($10.00); upon a conviction for a second offense the fine shall be fifty
dollars ($50.00); upon a conviction for a third or subsequent offense the fine
shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
 
   (b)   Whoever violates Section
513.03(c) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree and shall be fined
not more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or incarcerated not more than
30 days, or both. (Ord. 4792. Passed 11-3-14.)
CHAPTER 517
Gambling
517.01   Definitions.
517.02   Gambling.
517.03   Operating a gambling house.
517.04   Public gaming.
517.05   Cheating.
517.06   Methods of conducting a bingo game; prohibitions.
517.07   Instant bingo conduct.
517.08   Raffles.
517.09   Charitable instant bingo organizations.
517.10   Location of instant bingo.
517.11   Bingo or game of chance records.
517.12   Bingo operator prohibitions.
517.13   Bingo exceptions.
517.14   Instant bingo conduct by a veteran’s or fraternal organization.
517.15   Seizure and destruction of gambling devices.
517.16   Skill-based amusement machines.
517.17   Electronic instant bingo; prohibited conduct.
517.99   Penalty.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
See sectional histories for similar State law
Lotteries prohibited; exception - see Ohio Const., Art. XV, Sec. 6
Contributing to delinquency of minors - see Ohio R.C. 2151.41
Search warrants - see Ohio R.C. 2933.21(E)
Licensing charitable bingo games - see Ohio R.C. 2915.08
 
 
517.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   “Bet” means the hazarding of anything of value upon the result of an
event, undertaking, or contingency, but does not include a bona fide business
risk.
   (b)   “Bingo” means either of the following:
      (1)    A game with all of the following characteristics:
         A.   The participants use bingo cards or sheets, including paper
formats and electronic representation or image formats, that are divided into
twenty-five (25) spaces arranged in five (5) horizontal and five (5) vertical
rows of spaces, with each space, except the central space, being designated by
a combination of a letter and a number and with the central space being
designated as a free space;
         B.   The participants cover the spaces on the bingo cards or sheets
that correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator;
         C.   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance,
either manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains seventy-five
(75) objects at the beginning of each game, each object marked by a different
combination of a letter and a number that corresponds to one of the seventy-
five (75) possible combinations of a letter and a number that can appear on the
bingo cards or sheets;
         D.   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who
properly announces during the interval between the announcements of letters and
numbers, as described in subsection (b)(1)C. hereof, that a predetermined and
pre-announced pattern of spaces has been covered on a bingo card or sheet being
used by the participant.
      (2)   Instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, and raffles.
   (c)   “Bingo game operator” means any person, except security personnel, who
performs work or labor at the site of bingo including but not limited to
collecting money from participants, handing out bingo cards or sheets or
objects to cover spaces on bingo cards or sheets, selecting from a receptacle
the objects that contain the combination of letters and numbers that appear on
bingo cards or sheets, calling out the combinations of letters and numbers,
distributing prizes, selling or redeeming instant bingo tickets or cards,
selling or redeeming electronic instant bingo tickets, credits, or vouchers,
accessing an electronic instant bingo system other than as a participant,
supervising the operation of a punch board, selling raffle tickets, selecting
raffle tickets from a receptacle and announcing the winning numbers in a
raffle, and preparing, selling, and serving food or beverages. ”Bingo game
operator” does not include a person who is installing, maintaining, updating,
or repairing an electronic instant bingo system.
   (d)   “Bingo session” means a period that includes both of the following:
      (1)    Not to exceed five (5) continuous hours for the conduct of one or
more games described in subsection (d)(1) hereof the definition of “bingo” in
this section, instant bingo, and electronic instant bingo;
      (2)    A period for the conduct of instant bingo and electronic instant
bingo for not more than two (2) hours before and not more than two (2) hours
after the period described in subsection (d)(1) hereof.
   (e)   “Bingo supplies” means bingo cards or sheets; instant bingo tickets or
cards; electronic bingo aids; raffle tickets; punch boards; seal cards; instant
bingo ticket dispensers; electronic instant bingo systems; and devices for
selecting or displaying the combination of bingo letters and numbers or raffle
tickets. Items that are “bingo supplies” are not gambling devices if sold or
otherwise provided, and used, in accordance with this chapter or Ohio R.C.
Chapter 2915. For purposes of this chapter, “bingo supplies” are not to be
considered equipment used to conduct a bingo game.
   (f)   “Bookmaking” means the business of receiving or paying off bets.
   (g)   “Charitable bingo game” means any bingo game described in subsections
(b)(1) or (2) hereof that is conducted by a charitable organization that has
obtained a license pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2915.08 and the proceeds of which are
used for a charitable purpose.
   (h)   “Charitable instant bingo organization” means an organization that is
exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501
(c)(3) and is a charitable organization as defined in this section. The term
does not include a charitable organization that is exempt from federal income
taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3) and that is created by
a veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization, or a sporting organization
in regards to bingo conducted or assisted by a veteran’s organization, a
fraternal organization, or a sporting organization pursuant to Section
517.14 .
   (i)   “Charitable organization” means:
      (1)    Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, “charitable
organization” means either of the following:
         A.   An organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3);
         B.   A volunteer rescue service organization, volunteer firefighter’s
organization, veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(c)(4),
501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19).
      (2)    To qualify as a charitable organization, an organization shall
have been in continuous existence as such in this state for a period of two (2)
years immediately preceding either the making of an application for a bingo
license under Ohio R.C. 2915.08 or the conducting of any game of chance as
provided Section 
517.02 (d).
   (j)   “Charitable purpose” means that the net profit of bingo, other than
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo, is used by, or is given, donated, or
otherwise transferred to, any of the following:
      (1)    Any organization that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), 509(a)(2), or
509(a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that is tax
exempt under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3);
      (2)    A veteran’s organization that is a post, chapter, or organization
of veterans, or an auxiliary unit or society of, or a trust or foundation for,
any such post, chapter, or organization organized in the United States or any
of its possessions, at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the members of which
are veterans and substantially all of the other members of which are
individuals who are spouses, widows, or widowers of veterans, or such
individuals, provided that no part of the net earnings of such post, chapter,
or organization inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual,
and further provided that the net profit is used by the post, chapter, or
organization for the charitable purposes set forth in Ohio R.C. 5739.02(B)(12),
is used for awarding scholarships to or for attendance at an institution
mentioned in that division of the Ohio Revised Code, is donated to a
governmental agency, or is used for nonprofit youth activities, the purchase of
United States or Ohio flags that are donated to schools, youth groups, or other
bona fide nonprofit organizations, promotion of patriotism, or disaster relief;
      (3)    A fraternal organization that has been in continuous existence in
this state for fifteen (15) years and that uses the net profit exclusively for
religious, charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or for
the prevention of cruelty to children or animals, if contributions for such use
would qualify as a deductible charitable contribution under IRC 170;
      (4)    A volunteer firefighter’s organization that uses the net profit
for the purposes set forth in the definition of ”volunteer firefighter’s
organization” in this section.
   (k)   “Community action agency” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 122.66.
   (l)   “Conduct” means to back, promote, organize, manage, carry on, sponsor,
or prepare for the operation of bingo or a game of chance, a scheme of chance,
or a sweepstakes.
   (m)   “Deal” means a single game of instant bingo tickets, or a single game
of electronic instant bingo tickets, all with the same serial number.
   (n)   “Distributor” means any person who purchases or obtains bingo supplies
and who does either of the following:
      (1)    Sells, offers for sale, or otherwise provides or offers to provide
the bingo supplies to another person for use in this state;
      (2)    Modifies, converts, adds to, or removes parts from the bingo
supplies to further their promotion or sale for use in this state.
   (o)   “Electronic bingo aid” means:
      (1)    An electronic device used by a participant to monitor bingo cards
or sheets purchased at the time and place of a bingo session and that does all
of the following:
         A.   It provides a means for a participant to input numbers and
letters announced by a bingo caller.
         B.   It compares the numbers and letters entered by the participant to
the bingo faces previously stored in the memory of the device.
         C.   It identifies a winning bingo pattern.
      (2)    The term does not include any device into which a coin, currency,
token, or an equivalent is inserted to activate play.
   (p)   “Electronic instant bingo” means:
      (1)   A form of bingo that consists of an electronic or digital
representation of instant bingo in which a participant wins a prize if the
participant’s electronic instant bingo ticket contains a combination of numbers
or symbols that was designated in advance as a winning combination, and to
which all of the following apply:
         A.   Each deal has a predetermined, finite number of winning and
losing tickets and a predetermined prize amount and deal structure, provided
that there may be multiple winning combinations in each deal and multiple
winning tickets.
         B.   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal has a unique
serial number that is not regenerated.
         C.   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal is sold for
the same price.
         D.   After a participant purchases an electronic instant bingo ticket,
the combination of numbers or symbols on the ticket is revealed to the
participant.
         E.   The reveal of numbers or symbols on the ticket may incorporate an
entertainment or bonus theme, provided that the reveal does not include
spinning reels that resemble a slot machine.
         F.   The reveal theme, if any, does not require additional
consideration or award any prize other than any predetermined prize associated
with the electronic instant bingo ticket.
      (2)    The term shall not include any of the following:
         A.   Any game, entertainment, or bonus theme that replicates or
simulates any of the following:
            1.    The gambling games of keno, blackjack, roulette, poker,
craps, other casino-style table games;
            2.    Horse racing;
            3.    Gambling games offered in this state on slot machines or
video lottery terminals. As used in this division, “video lottery terminal” has
the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 3770.21.
         B.   Any device operated by dropping one or more coins or tokens into
a slot and pulling a handle or pushing a button or touchpoint on a touchscreen
to activate one to three or more rotating reels marked into horizontal segments
by varying symbols, where the predetermined prize amount depends on how and how
many of the symbols line up when the rotating reels come to a rest;
         C.   Any device that includes a coin or token slot, tray, or hopper
and the ability to dispense coins, cash, tokens, or anything of value other
than a credit ticket voucher.
   (q)   “Electronic instant bingo system” means both of the following:
      (1)    A mechanical, electronic, digital, or video device and associated
software to which all of the following apply:
         A.   It is used by not more than one player at a time to play
electronic instant bingo on a single screen that is physically connected to the
device;
         B.   It is located on the premises of the principal place of business
of a veteran’s or fraternal organization that holds a type II or type III bingo
license to conduct electronic instant bingo at that location issued under Ohio
R.C. 2915.08.
      (2)    Any associated equipment or software used to manage, monitor, or
document any aspect of electronic instant bingo.
   (r)   “Expenses” means the reasonable amount of gross profit actually
expended for all of the following:
      (1)    The purchase or lease of bingo supplies;
      (2)    The annual license fee required under Ohio R.C. 2915.08;
      (3)    Bank fees and service charges for a bingo session or game account
described in Ohio R.C. 2915.10;
      (4)    Audits and accounting services;
      (5)    Safes;
      (6)    Cash registers;
      (7)    Hiring security personnel;
      (8)    Advertising bingo;
      (9)    Renting premises in which to conduct a bingo session;
      (10)    Tables and chairs;
      (11)    Expenses for maintaining and operating a charitable
organization’s facilities, including but not limited to a post home, club
house, lounge, tavern, or canteen and any grounds attached to the post home,
club house, lounge, tavern, or canteen;
      (12)    Payment of real property taxes and assessments that are levied on
a premises on which bingo is conducted;
      (13)    Any other product or service directly related to the conduct of
bingo that is authorized in rules adopted by the Attorney General under Ohio
R.C. 2915.08(F)(1).
   (s)   “Fraternal organization” means any society, order, state headquarters,
or association within this state, except a college or high school fraternity,
that is not organized for profit, that is a branch, lodge, or chapter of a
national or state organization, that exists exclusively for the common business
or sodality of its members.
   (t)   “Gambling device” means any of the following:
      (1)    A book, totalizer, or other equipment used for recording bets;
      (2)    A ticket, token, or other device representing a chance, share, or
interest in a scheme of chance or evidencing a bet;
      (3)    A deck of cards, dice, gaming table, roulette wheel, slot machine,
or other apparatus designed for use in connection with a game of chance;
      (4)    Any equipment, device, apparatus, or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes;
      (5)    Bingo supplies sold or otherwise provided, or used, in violation
of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (u)   “Gambling offense” means any of the following:
      (1)    A violation of Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915;
      (2)    A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915 or a violation of Ohio R.C.
2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States, of which gambling is an
element;
      (4)    A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing,
any offense under subsections (v)(1), (2), or (3) hereof.
   (v)   “Game flare” means the board or placard, or electronic representation
of a board or placard, that accompanies each deal of instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo tickets and that includes the following information
for the game:
      (1)    The name of the game;
      (2)    The manufacture’s name or distinctive logo;
      (3)    The form number;
      (4)    The ticket count;
      (5)    The prize structure, including the number of winning tickets by
denomination and the respective winning symbol or number combinations for the
winning tickets;
      (6)    The cost per play;
      (7)    The serial number of the game.
   (w)   “Game of chance” means poker, craps, roulette, or other game in which
a player gives anything of value in the hope of gain, the outcome of which is
determined largely by chance, but does not include bingo.
            (x)   “Game of chance conducted for profit” means any game of
chance designed to produce income for the person who conducts or operates the
game of chance, but does not include bingo.
   (y)   “Gross annual revenues” means the annual gross receipts derived from
the conduct of bingo described in subsection (b)(1) hereof plus the annual net
profit derived from the conduct of bingo described subsection (b)(2) hereof.
           (z)   “Gross profit” means gross receipts minus the amount actually
expended for the payment of prize awards.
   (aa)   “Gross receipts” means all money or assets, including admission fees,
that a person receives from bingo without the deduction of any amounts for
prizes paid out or for the expenses of conducting bingo. The term does not
include any money directly taken in from the sale of food or beverages by a
charitable organization conducting bingo, or by a bona fide auxiliary unit or
society of a charitable organization conducting bingo, provided all of the
following apply:
      (1)    The auxiliary unit or society has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two (2)
years prior to conducting bingo.
      (2)    The person who purchases the food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage and items customarily received with the
purchase of that food or beverage.
      (3)    The food and beverages are sold at customary and reasonable
prices.
   (bb)   “Instant bingo” means a form of bingo that shall use folded or banded
tickets or paper cards with perforated break-open tabs, a face of which is
covered or otherwise hidden from view to conceal a number, letter, or symbol,
or set of numbers, letters, or symbols, some of which have been designated in
advance as prize winners, and may also include games in which some winners are
determined by the random selection of one or more bingo numbers by the use of a
seal card or bingo blower. ”Instant bingo” also includes a punch board game.
In all “instant bingo” the prize amount and structure shall be predetermined.
The term does not include electronic instant bingo or any device that is
activated by the insertion of a coin, currency, token, or an equivalent, and
that contains as one of its components a video display monitor that is capable
of displaying numbers, letters, symbols, or characters in winning or losing
combinations.
   (cc)   “Instant bingo ticket dispenser” means a mechanical device that
dispenses an instant bingo ticket or card as the sole item of value dispensed
and that has the following characteristics:
      (1)    It is activated upon the insertion of United States currency.
      (2)    It performs no gaming functions.
      (3)    It does not contain a video display monitor or generate noise.
      (4)    It is not capable of displaying any numbers, letters, symbols, or
characters in winning or losing combinations.
      (5)    It does not simulate or display rolling or spinning reels.
      (6)    It is incapable of determining whether a dispensed bingo ticket or
card is a winning or non-winning ticket or card and requires a winning ticket
or card to be paid by a bingo game operator.
      (7)    It may provide accounting and security features to aid in
accounting for the instant bingo tickets or cards it dispenses.
      (8)    It is not part of an electronic network and is not interactive.
   (dd)   “Internal Revenue Code (IRC)” means the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, 100 Stat. 2085, 26 U.S.C. 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   (ee)   “Manufacturer” means any person who assembles completed bingo
supplies from raw materials, other items, or subparts or who modifies,
converts, adds to, or removes parts from bingo supplies to further their
promotion or sale.
   (ff)   “Merchandise prize” means any item of value, but shall not include
any of the following:
      (1)    Cash, gift cards, or any equivalent thereof;
      (2)    Plays on games of chance, state lottery tickets, or bingo;
      (3)    Firearms, tobacco, or alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)    A redeemable voucher that is redeemable for any of the items
listed in subsections (hh)(1), (2) or (3) hereof.
   (gg)   “Net profit” means gross profit minus expenses.
   (hh)   “Net profit from the proceeds of the sale of instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo” means gross profit minus the ordinary, necessary, and
reasonable expense expended for the purchase of bingo supplies for the purpose
of conducting instant bingo or electronic instant bingo, and, in the case of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conducted by a veteran’s, fraternal,
or sporting organization, minus the payment by that organization of real
property taxes and assessments levied on a premises on which instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo is conducted.
   (ii)   “Participant” means any person who plays bingo.
   (jj)   “Person” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 1.59 and includes any
firm or any other legal entity, however organized.
   (kk)   “Pool not conducted for profit” means a scheme in which a participant
gives a valuable consideration for a chance to win a prize and the total amount
of consideration wagered is distributed to a participant or participants.
   (ll)   “Punch board” means a form of instant bingo that uses a board
containing a number of holes or receptacles of uniform size in which are
placed, mechanically and randomly, serially numbered slips of paper that may be
punched or drawn from the hole or receptacle. A player may punch or draw the
numbered slips of paper from the holes or receptacles and obtain the prize
established for the game if the number drawn corresponds to a winning number
or, if the punch board includes the use of a seal card, a potential winning
number.
   (mm)   “Raffle” means a form of bingo in which the one or more prizes are
won by one or more persons who have purchased a raffle ticket. The one or more
winners of the raffle are determined by drawing a ticket stub or other
detachable section from a receptacle containing ticket stubs or detachable
sections corresponding to all tickets sold for the raffle. The term does not
include the drawing of a ticket stub or other detachable section of a ticket
purchased to attend a professional sporting event if both of the following
apply:
      (1)    The ticket stub or other detachable section is used to select the
winner of a free prize given away at the professional sporting event; and
      (2)    The cost of the ticket is the same as the cost of a ticket to the
professional sporting event on days when no free prize is given away.
   (nn)   “Redeemable voucher” means any ticket, token, coupon, receipt, or
other noncash representation of value.
   (oo)   “Religious organization” means any church, body of communicants, or
group that is not organized or operated for profit and that gathers in common
membership for regular worship and religious observances.
   (pp)   “Revoke” means to void permanently all rights and privileges of the
holder of a license issued under Ohio R.C. 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a
charitable gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   (qq)   “Scheme of chance” means:
      (1)    A slot machine unless authorized under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3772,
lottery unless authorized under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3770, numbers game, pool
conducted for profit, or other scheme in which a participant gives a valuable
consideration for a chance to win a prize, but does not include bingo, a skill-
based amusement machine, or a pool not conducted for profit. “Scheme of chance”
includes the use of an electronic device to reveal the results of a game entry
if valuable consideration is paid, directly or indirectly, for a chance to win
a prize. Valuable consideration is deemed to be paid for a chance to win a
prize in the following instances:
         A.   Less than fifty percent (50%) of the goods or services sold by a
scheme of chance operator in exchange for game entries are used or redeemed by
participants at any one location;
         B.   Less than fifty percent (50%) of participants who purchase goods
or services at any one location do not accept, use, or redeem the goods or
services sold or purportedly sold;
         C.   More than fifty percent (50%) of prizes at any one location are
revealed to participants through an electronic device simulating a game of
chance or a “casino game” as defined in Ohio R.C. 3772.01;
         D.   The good or service sold by a scheme of chance operator in
exchange for a game entry cannot be used or redeemed in the manner advertised;
         E.   A participant pays more than fair market value for goods or
services offered by a scheme of chance operator in order to receive one or more
game entries;
         F.   A participant may use the electronic device to purchase
additional game entries;
         G.   A participant may purchase additional game entries by using
points or credits won as prizes while using the electronic device;
         H.   A scheme of chance operator pays out in prize money more than
twenty percent (20%) of the gross revenue received at one location; or
         I.   A participant makes a purchase or exchange in order to obtain any
good or service that may be used to facilitate play on the electronic device.
      (2)    As used in this subsection, “electronic device” means a
mechanical, video, digital, or electronic machine or device that is capable of
displaying information on a screen or other mechanism and that is owned,
leased, or otherwise possessed by any person conducting a scheme of chance, or
by that person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or contractors.
”Electronic device” does not include an electronic instant bingo system.
   (rr)   “Seal card” means a form of instant bingo that uses instant bingo
tickets in conjunction with a board or placard that contains one or more seals
that, when removed or opened, reveal predesignated winning numbers, letters, or
symbols.
   (ss)   “Security personnel” includes any person who either is a Sheriff,
deputy sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, township constable, or member of an
organized police department of a municipal corporation or has successfully
completed a peace officer’s training course pursuant to Ohio R.C. 109.71
through 109.79 and who is hired to provide security for the premises on which
bingo is conducted.
   (tt)   “Skill-based amusement machine” means:
      (1)    A.   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic device that
rewards the player or players, if at all, only with merchandise prizes or with
redeemable vouchers redeemable only for merchandise prizes, provided that with
respect to rewards for playing the game all of the following apply:
            1.    The wholesale value of a merchandise prize awarded as a
result of the single play of a machine does not exceed ten dollars ($10.00);
            2.    Redeemable vouchers awarded for any single play of a machine
are not redeemable for a merchandise prize with a wholesale value of more than
ten dollars ($10.00);
            3.    Redeemable vouchers are not redeemable for a merchandise
prize that has a wholesale value of more than ten dollars ($10.00) times the
fewest number of single plays necessary to accrue the redeemable vouchers
required to obtain that prize; and
            4.    Any redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes are distributed
at the site of the skill-based amusement machine at the time of play.
         B.   A card for the purchase of gasoline is a redeemable voucher for
purposes of subsection (vv)(1) hereof even if the skill-based amusement machine
for the play of which the card is awarded is located at a place where gasoline
may not be legally distributed to the public or the card is not redeemable at
the location of, or at the time of playing, the skill-based amusement machine.
      (2)    A device shall not be considered a skill-based amusement machine
and shall be considered a slot machine if it pays cash or one or more of the
following apply:
         A.   The ability of a player to succeed at the game is impacted by the
number or ratio of prior wins to prior losses of players playing the game;
         B.   Any reward of redeemable vouchers is not based solely on the
player achieving the object of the game or the player’s score;
         C.   The outcome of the game, or the value of the redeemable voucher
or merchandise prize awarded for winning the game, can be controlled by a
source other than any player playing the game;
         D.   The success of any player is or may be determined by a chance
event that cannot be altered by player actions;
         E.   The ability of any player to succeed at the game is determined by
game features not visible or known to the player;
         F.   The ability of the player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the exercise of a skill that no reasonable player could exercise.
      (3)    All of the following apply to any machine that is operated as
described in subsection (vv)(1) hereof:
         A.   As used in this definition of “skill-based amusement machine”,
“game” and “play” mean one event from the initial activation of the machine
until the results of play are determined without payment of additional
consideration. An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single game,
play, contest, competition, or tournament may be awarded redeemable vouchers or
merchandise prizes based on the results of play.
         B.   Advance play for a single game, play, contest, competition, or
tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the contest,
competition, or tournament participation may be greater than a single non-
contest, competition, or tournament play.
         C.   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest, competition,
or tournament, that contest, competition, or tournament has a defined starting
and ending date and is open to participants in competition for scoring and
ranking results toward the awarding of redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes that are stated prior to the start of the contest, competition, or
tournament.
      (4)   For purposes of subsection (vv)(1) hereof, the mere presence of a
device, such as a pinsetting, ball-releasing, or scoring mechanism, that does
not contribute to or affect the outcome of the play of the game does not make
the device a skill-based amusement machine.
   (uu)   “Slot machine” means:
      (1)    Either of the following:
         A.   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player who gives the thing of value in the hope of gain;
         B.   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player to conduct bingo or a scheme or game of chance.
      (2)    The term does not include a skill-based amusement machine, an
instant bingo ticket dispenser, or an electronic instant bingo system.
   (vv)   “Sporting organization” means a hunting, fishing, or trapping
organization, other than a college or high school fraternity or sorority, that
is not organized for profit, that is affiliated with a state or national
sporting organization, including but not limited to the League of Ohio
Sportsmen, and that has been in continuous existence in this state for a period
of three (3) years.
   (ww)   “Suspend” means to interrupt temporarily all rights and privileges of
the holder of a license issued under Ohio R.C. 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082
or a charitable gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   (xx)   “Sweepstakes” means any game, contest, advertising scheme or plan, or
other promotion where consideration is not required for a person to enter to
win or become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is
based upon chance. ”Sweepstakes” does not include bingo as authorized under
Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915, pari-mutuel wagering as authorized by Ohio R.C. Chapter
3769, lotteries conducted by the State Lottery Commission as authorized by Ohio
R.C. Chapter 3770, and casino gaming as authorized by Ohio R.C. Chapter 3772.
   (yy)   “Sweepstakes terminal device” means:
      (1)    A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic machine or device that
is owned, leased, or otherwise possessed by any person conducting a
sweepstakes, or by that person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or
contractors, that is intended to be used by a sweepstakes participant, and that
is capable of displaying information on a screen or other mechanism. A device
is a sweepstakes terminal device if any of the following apply:
         A.   The device uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of
the prizes associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
         B.   The device utilizes software such that the simulated game
influences or determines the winning of or value of the prize.
         C.   The device selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of
entries.
         D.   The device utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a
predetermined sweepstakes entry.
         E.   The device predetermines the prize results and stores those
results for delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
         F.   The device utilizes software to create a game result.
         G.   The device reveals the prize incrementally, even though the
device does not influence the awarding of the prize or the value of any prize
awarded.
         H.   The device determines and associates the prize with an entry or
entries at the time the sweepstakes is entered.
      (2)    As used in this definition and in Section
517.02:
         A.   “Enter” means the act by which a person becomes eligible to
receive any prize offered in a sweepstakes.
         B.   “Entry” means one event from the initial activation of the
sweepstakes terminal device until all the sweepstakes prize results from that
activation are revealed.
         C.   “Prize” means any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit,
reward, or any other thing of value that may be transferred to a person,
whether possession of the prize is actually transferred, or placed on an
account or other record as evidence of the intent to transfer the prize.
   (zz)   “Sweepstakes terminal facility” means any location in this state
where a sweepstakes terminal device is provided to a sweepstakes participant,
except as provided in Ohio R.C. 2915.02(G).
   (aaa)   “Veteran’s organization” means any individual post or state
headquarters of a national veteran’s association or an auxiliary unit of any
individual post of a national veteran’s association, which post, state
headquarters, or auxiliary unit is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation and
either has received a letter from the state headquarters of the national
veteran’s association indicating that the individual post or auxiliary unit is
in good standing with the national veteran’s association or has received a
letter from the national veteran’s association indicating that the state
headquarters is in good standing with the national veteran’s association. As
used in this definition, “National Veterans’ Association” means any veteran’s
association that has been in continuous existence as such for a period of at
least five (5) years and either is incorporated by an act of the United States
Congress or has a national dues-paying membership of at least 5,000 persons.
   (bbb)   “Volunteer firefighter’s organization” means any organization of
volunteer firefighters, as defined in Ohio R.C. 146.01, that is organized and
operated exclusively to provide financial support for a volunteer fire
department or a volunteer fire company and that is recognized or ratified by a
county, municipal corporation, or township.
   (ccc)   “Volunteer rescue service organization” means any organization of
volunteers organized to function as an emergency medical service organization,
as defined in Ohio R.C. 4765.01.
   (ddd)   “Youth athletic organization” means any organization, not organized
for profit, that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial
support to, or to operate, athletic activities for persons who are twenty-one
(21) years of age or younger by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating, or
contributing to the support of an athletic team, club, league, or association.
   (eee)   “Youth athletic park organization” means any organization, not
organized for profit, that satisfies both of the following:
      (1)    It owns, operates, and maintains playing fields that satisfy both
of the following:
         A.   The playing fields are used for athletic activities by one or
more organizations, not organized for profit, each of which is organized and
operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or to operate, athletic
activities for persons who are eighteen (18) years of age or younger by means
of sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support of an
athletic team, club, league, or association.
         B.   The playing fields are not used for any profit-making activity at
any time during the year.
      (2)    It uses the proceeds of bingo it conducts exclusively for the
operation, maintenance, and improvement of its playing fields of the type
described in subsection (ggg)(1) hereof.
         (ORC 2915.01)
517.02 GAMBLING.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking;
      (2)   Establish, promote, or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance;
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange, or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission, or exchange of information for use
in establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or
with any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance;
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood;
      (5)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
and either:
         A.   Give to another person any item described in subsection (ff)(1),
(2), (3) or (4) of Section
517.01  as a prize for playing or participating in a sweepstakes; or
         B.   Give to another person any merchandise prize, or a redeemable
voucher for a merchandise prize, the wholesale value of which is in excess of
ten dollars ($10.00) and which is awarded as a single entry for playing or
participating in a sweepstakes. Redeemable vouchers shall not be redeemable for
a merchandise prize that has a wholesale value of more than ten dollars
($10.00).
      (6)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
without first obtaining a current annual “certificate of registration” from the
Attorney General as required by division (F) of Ohio R.C. 2915.02.
      (7)   With purpose to violate subsection (a)(1), (2), (3), (4), (5) or
(6) of this section, acquire, possess, control, or operate any gambling device.
   (b)   For purposes of subsection (a)(1) of this section, a person
facilitates bookmaking if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal
bookmaking operation, including, without limitation, placing a bet with a
person engaged in or facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of
subsection (a)(2) of this section, a person facilitates a game of chance
conducted for profit or a scheme of chance if the person in any way knowingly
aids in the conduct or operation of any such game or scheme, including, without
limitation, playing any such game or scheme.
   (c)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (d)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply:
         A.   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money.
         B.    The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is, and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is, exempt
from Federal income taxation under subsection 501(a) and described in
subsection 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         C.   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran's or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran's or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance.
            A charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran's
or fraternal organization to conduct a festival described in subsection (d)
(1)C. hereof if the veteran's or fraternal organization has already leased the
premises twelve times during the preceding year to charitable organizations for
that purpose. If a charitable organization leases premises from a veteran's or
fraternal organization to conduct a festival described in subsection (d)(1)C.
hereof, the charitable organization shall not pay a rental rate for the
premises per day of the festival that exceeds the rental rate per bingo session
that a charitable organization may pay under Section
517.06(b)(1) when it leases premises from another charitable organization to
conduct bingo games.
         D.   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, or given, donated or otherwise transferred to, any
organization that is described in subsection 509(a)(1), (2) or (3) of the
Internal Revenue Code and is either a governmental unit or an organization that
is tax exempt under subsection 501(a) and described in subsection 501(c)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code;
         E.   The games of chance are not conducted during, or within ten hours
of, a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to Section
517.13.
         No person shall receive any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip,
donations, gratuity or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly, for
operating or assisting in the operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament operated under a permit issued under
Ohio R.C. 1533.92, as "tag fishing tournament" is defined in Ohio R.C. 1531.01.
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under Ohio R.C. 2915.08.
   (e)   Subsection (d) hereof shall not be construed to authorize the sale,
lease or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct games of
chance, as granted by subsection (d) hereof, by any charitable organization
that is granted that right.
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a gambling
offense, gambling is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State
law. (ORC 2915.02)
517.03 OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (a)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy such premises for gambling in violation of Section
517.02;
      (2)   Recklessly permit such premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of Section
517.02.
   (b)    Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a gambling
house, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
   (c)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 3767. (ORC 2915.03)
517.04 PUBLIC GAMING.
   (a)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall,
or other place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall
make a bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (b)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision, of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of subsection (a) of this
section.
   (c)   Subsections (a) and (b) of this section do not prohibit conduct in
connection with gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except as
otherwise provided in this subsection, public gaming is a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense, public
gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (e)   Premises used or occupied in violation of subsection (b) of this
section constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under Ohio R.C. Chapter
3767. (ORC 2915.04)
517.05 CHEATING.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following:
      (1)   The subject of a bet;
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill, or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event;
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance;
      (4)   Bingo.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of cheating. Except as
otherwise provided in this subsection cheating is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is one thousand dollars
($1,000) or more, or if the offender previously has been convicted of any
gambling offense or of any theft offense as defined in Ohio R.C. 2913.01,
cheating is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law. (ORC
2915.05)
517.06 METHODS OF CONDUCTING A BINGO GAME; PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo shall fail to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Own all of the equipment used to conduct bingo or lease that
equipment from a charitable organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, or
from the landlord of a premises where bingo is conducted, for a rental rate
that is not more than is customary and reasonable for that equipment;
      (2)    Except as otherwise provided in subsection (a)(3) of this section,
use all of the gross receipts from bingo for paying prizes, for reimbursement
of expenses for or for renting premises in which to conduct bingo, for
reimbursement of expenses for or for purchasing or leasing bingo supplies used
in conducting bingo, for reimbursement of expenses for or for hiring security
personnel, for reimbursement of expenses for or for advertising bingo, or for
reimbursement of other expenses or for other expenses listed in the definition
for “expenses” in Section
517.01(r), provided that the amount of the receipts so spent is not more than
is customary and reasonable for a similar purchase, lease, hiring, advertising,
or expense. If the building in which bingo is conducted is owned by the
charitable organization conducting bingo and the bingo conducted includes a
form of bingo described in the definition of “bingo” in Section
517.01(b)(1), the charitable organization may deduct from the total amount of
the gross receipts from each session a sum equal to the lesser of six hundred
dollars ($600.00) or forty-five percent (45%) of the gross receipts from the
bingo described in that division as consideration for the use of the premises;
      (3)    Use, or give, donate, or otherwise transfer, all of the net profit
derived from bingo described in Section
517.01(b)(1), for a charitable purpose listed in its license application and
described in Section
517.01(k), or distribute all of the net profit from the proceeds of the sale of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo as stated in its license application
and in accordance with Ohio R.C. 2915.101, as applicable.
   (b)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
Section
517.01(b)(1) shall fail to do any of the following:
      (1)   Conduct the bingo game on premises that are owned by the charitable
organization, on premises that are owned by another charitable organization and
leased from that charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of the
lesser of six hundred dollars ($600.00) per bingo session or forty-five percent
(45%) of the gross receipts of the bingo session, on premises that are leased
from a person other than a charitable organization for a rental rate that is
not more than is customary and reasonable for premises that are similar in
location, size, and quality but not in excess of four hundred fifty dollars
($450.00) per bingo session, or on premises that are owned by a person other
than a charitable organization, that are leased from that person by another
charitable organization, and that are subleased from that other charitable
organization by the charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of
four hundred fifty dollars ($450.00) per bingo session. No charitable
organization is required to pay property taxes or assessments on premises that
the charitable organization leases from another person to conduct bingo
sessions. If the charitable organization leases from a person other than a
charitable organization the premises on which it conducts bingo sessions, the
lessor of the premises shall provide the premises to the organization and shall
not provide the organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions or concession operators, bingo supplies, or any other type of
service. A charitable organization shall not lease or sublease premises that it
owns or leases to more than three (3) other charitable organizations per
calendar week for
conducting bingo sessions on the premises. A person that is not a charitable
organization shall not lease premises that it owns, leases, or otherwise is
empowered to lease to more than three (3) charitable organizations per calendar
week for conducting bingo sessions on the premises. In no case shall more than
nine (9) bingo sessions be conducted on any premises in any calendar week.
      (2)   Display its license conspicuously at the premises where the bingo
session is conducted;
      (3)   Conduct the bingo session in accordance with the definition of
bingo set forth in Section
517.01 (b)(1).
   (c)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
Section
517.01(b)(1) shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for operating a bingo
session that is conducted by the charitable organization or for preparing,
selling, or serving food or beverages at the site of the bingo session, permit
any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to pay
compensation to any bingo game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or
beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable organization, or
permit any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to prepare,
sell, or serve food or beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, if the auxiliary unit or society pays any compensation to the
bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or serve the food or beverages;
      (2)   Pay consulting fees to any person for any services performed in
relation to the bingo session;
      (3)   Pay concession fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in the bingo session;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c)(4) of this section,
conduct more than three bingo sessions in any seven-day period. A volunteer
firefighter's organization or a volunteer rescue service organization that
conducts not more than five (5) bingo sessions in a calendar year may conduct
more than three (3) bingo sessions in a seven-day period after notifying the
Attorney General when it will conduct the sessions;
      (5)   Pay out more than six thousand dollars ($6,000) in prizes for bingo
games described in Section
517.01 (b)(1) during any bingo session that is conducted by the charitable
organization. “Prizes” does not include awards from the conduct of instant
bingo;
      (6)   Conduct a bingo session at any time during the eight-hour period
between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., at any time during, or within ten (10) hours
of, a bingo game conducted for amusement only pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2915.12, at
any premises not specified on its license, or on any day of the week or during
any time period not specified on its license. Subsection (c)(6) of this section
does not prohibit the sale of instant bingo tickets beginning at 9:00 a.m. for
a bingo session that begins at 10:00 a.m. If circumstances make it impractical
for the charitable organization to conduct a bingo session at the premises, or
on the day of the week or at the time, specified on its license or if a
charitable organization wants to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or
at a time other than the day or time specified on its license, the charitable
organization may apply in writing to the Attorney
General for an amended license, pursuant to division (J) of Ohio R.C. 2915.08.
A charitable organization may apply twice in each calendar year for an amended
license to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than
the day or time specified on its license. If the amended license is granted,
the organization may conduct bingo sessions at the premises, on the day of the
week, and at the time specified on its amended license;
      (7)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, is under the age of eighteen (18) to work as a bingo game operator;
      (8)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any
jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator;
      (9)   Permit the lessor of the premises on which the bingo session is
conducted, if the lessor is not a charitable organization, to provide the
charitable organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions, bingo supplies, or any other type of service;
      (10)   Purchase or lease bingo supplies from any person except a
distributor issued a license under Ohio R.C. 2915.081;
      (11)   A.   Use or permit the use of electronic bingo aids except under
the following circumstances:
            1.   For any single participant, not more than ninety (90) bingo
faces can be played using an electronic bingo aid or aids.
            2.   The charitable organization shall provide a participant using
an electronic bingo aid with corresponding paper bingo cards or sheets.
            3.   The total price of bingo faces played with an electronic bingo
aid shall be equal to the total price of the same number of bingo faces played
with a paper bingo card or sheet sold at the same bingo session but without an
electronic bingo aid.
            4.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be part of an electronic
network other than a network that includes only bingo aids and devices that are
located on the premises at which the bingo is being conducted or be interactive
with any device not located on the premises at which the bingo is being
conducted.
            5.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to participate in bingo
that is conducted at a location other than the location at which the bingo
session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
            6.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to provide for the
input of numbers and letters announced by a bingo caller other than the bingo
caller who physically calls the numbers and letters at the location at which
the bingo session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
         B.   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with Ohio R.C.
Chapter 119 that govern the use of electronic bingo aids. The rules may include
a requirement that an electronic bingo aid be capable of being audited by the
Attorney General to verify the number of bingo cards or sheets played during
each bingo session.
      (12)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under eighteen (18) years of age to play bingo described in
Section 
517.01 (b)(1).
   (d)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d)(3) hereof, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator, and no bingo
game operator shall receive or accept, any commission, wage, salary, reward,
tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly,
regardless of the source, for conducting bingo or providing other work or labor
at the site of bingo during a bingo session.
      (2)    Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d)(3) of this section,
no charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator any
commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of
compensation, directly or indirectly regardless of the source, for conducting
instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session
at the site of instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a
bingo session.
      (3)   Nothing in subsection (d) hereof prohibits an employee of a
fraternal organization, veteran’s organization, or sporting organization from
selling instant bingo tickets or cards to the organization’s members or invited
guests, as long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid from any
receipts of bingo.
   (e)   Notwithstanding subsection (b)(1) of this section, a charitable
organization that, prior to December 6, 1977, has entered into written
agreements for the lease of premises it owns to another charitable organization
or other charitable organizations for the conducting of bingo sessions so that
more than two (2) bingo sessions are conducted per calendar week on the
premises, and a person that is not a charitable organization and that, prior to
December 6, 1977, has entered into written agreements for the lease of premises
it owns to charitable organizations for the conducting of more than two (2)
bingo sessions per calendar week on the premises, may continue to lease the
premises to those charitable organizations, provided that no more than four
sessions are conducted per calendar week, that the lessor organization or
person has notified the Attorney General in writing of the organizations that
will conduct the sessions and the days of the week and the times of the day on
which the sessions will be conducted, that the initial lease entered into with
each organization that will conduct the sessions was filed with the Attorney
General prior to December 6, 1977, and that each organization that will conduct
the sessions was issued a license to conduct bingo games by the Attorney
General prior to December 6, 1977.
   (f)   This section does not prohibit a bingo licensed charitable
organization or a game operator from giving any person an instant bingo ticket
as a prize.
   (g)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates
subsection (a)(1) or (2), (b)(1), (2), or (3), (c)(1) to (11) or (d) of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of subsection (a)(1) or (2), (b)(1), (2) or (3), (c)
(1) to (11), or (d) of this section, a violation of subsection (a)(1) or (2),
(b)(1), (2) or (3) or (c)(1) to (11) or (d) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. Whoever violates subsection (c)(12) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of subsection (c)(12) of this section, a violation of
subsection (c)(12) is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State
law.
(ORC 2915.09)
517.07 INSTANT BINGO CONDUCT.
   (a)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of divisions (A)(1), (2), and
(3) of Ohio R.C. 2915.09;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         A.   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under subsection 501(a),
is described in subsection 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, is a
charitable organization as defined in Section 
517.01 , is in good standing in the State pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2915.08, and is
in compliance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 1716;
         B.   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under subsection 501(a),
is described in subsection 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or 501(c)(19) or is a
veteran’s organization described in subsection 501(c)(4) of the Internal
Revenue Code, and conducts instant bingo under Section 
517.14 .
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization's license issued pursuant to Ohio R.C.
2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a
bingo game operator in the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under Ohio R.C.
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under eighteen
(18) years of age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three (3) years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling,
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell, or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)   Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation to
an instant bingo game, except as provided in Section
517.09 (d);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   A.   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo game
operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo tickets
or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are working at a
premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold;
         B.   Subsection (a)(12)A. of this section does not prohibit a licensed
charitable organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an
instant bingo ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant
in an instant bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be
sold or provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the
manufacturer on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare.
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold, conspicuously at each
premises at which it sells instant bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under Ohio R.C. 2915.081 as reflected on
an invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information
required by Section 
517.11 (f);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two (2) highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold;
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
Ohio R.C. 2915.01 to 2915.13.
   (b)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease, or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (c)   Whoever violates subsection (a) of this section or a rule adopted
under Ohio R.C. 2915.091(C) is guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except
as otherwise provided in this subsection, illegal instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of subsection (a) of this section or of such a rule, illegal
instant bingo conduct is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate
State law.
(ORC 2915.091)
517.08 RAFFLES.
   (a)   (1)    Subject to subsection (a)(2) of this section, a person or
entity may conduct a raffle to raise money for the person or entity and does
not need a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle drawing that
is not for profit if the person or entity is any of the following:
         A.   Exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §501(a) and
described in IRC §501(c)(3);
         B.   A school district, community school established under Ohio R.C.
Chapter 3314, STEM school established under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3326, college-
preparatory boarding school established under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3328, or
chartered nonpublic school;
         C.   Exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §501(a) and
described in IRC §501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501
(c)(19).
      (2)    If a person or entity that is described in subsection (a)(1)C. of
this section conducts a raffle, the person or entity shall distribute at least
fifty percent (50%) of the net profit from the raffle to a charitable purpose
described in Section
517.01 (j) or to a department or agency of the federal government, the state,
or any political subdivision.
   (b)   Except as provided in subsection (a) of this section, no person shall
conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is not for
profit.
   (c)   Whoever violates subsection (b) of this section is guilty of illegal
conduct of a raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, illegal
conduct of a raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of subsection (b) of this section,
illegal conduct of a raffle is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate State law. (ORC 2915.092)
517.09 CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATIONS.
   (a)   As used in this section, "retail income from all commercial activity"
means the income that a person receives from the provision of goods, services,
or activities that are provided at the location where instant bingo other than
at a bingo session is conducted, including the sale of instant bingo tickets. A
religious organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
subsection 501(a) and described in subsection 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code, at not more than one location at which it conducts its charitable
programs, may include donations from its members and guests as retail income.
   (b)   (1)    If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under Ohio
R.C. 2915.08, the charitable instant bingo organization shall enter into a
written contract with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant
bingo is conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in the conduct of
instant bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each location where the
instant bingo other than at a bingo session is being conducted, and identify
the owner or lessor of each location.
      (2)    A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under Ohio
R.C. 2915.08 is not required to enter into a written contract with the owner or
lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is conducted provided that
the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of the instant bingo other
than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct of the instant bingo
other than at a bingo session at that location is not more than five (5) days
per calendar year and not more than ten (10) hours per day.
   (c)   Except as provided in subsection (f) of this section, no charitable
instant bingo organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at a location where the primary source of retail income from all
commercial activity at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (d)   The owner or lessor of a location that enters into a contract pursuant
to subsection (b) of this section shall pay the full gross profit to the
charitable instant bingo organization, in return for the deal of instant bingo
tickets. The owner or lessor may retain the money that the owner or lessor
receives for selling the instant bingo tickets, provided, however, that after
the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall pay to the charitable instant
bingo organization the value of any unredeemed instant bingo prizes remaining
in the deal of instant bingo tickets.
   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay six per cent of the
total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose of
reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this subsection.
   As used in this subsection, “expenses” means those items provided for in
subsections (r)(4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (12) and (13) of Section
517.01 and that percentage of the owner’s or lessor’s rent for the location
where instant bingo is conducted. “Expenses” in the aggregate, shall not exceed
six percent (6%) of the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo
tickets.
   As used in this subsection, “full gross profit” means the amount by which
the total receipts of all instant bingo tickets, if the deal had been sold in
full, exceeds the amount that would be paid out if all prizes were redeemed.
   (e)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a
contract entered into pursuant to subsection (b) of this section with an owner
or lessor of a location;
      (2)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to subsection (b) of this section with a new owner or
lessor of a location;
      (3)   That the charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct
by the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that
is in violation of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (f)   Subsection (c) of this section does not apply to a volunteer
firefighter’s organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
subsection 501(a) and described in subsection 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code, that conducts instant bingo other than at a bingo session on the premises
where the organization conducts firefighter training, that has conducted
instant bingo continuously for at least five years prior to July 1, 2003, and
that, during each of those five years, had gross receipts of at least one
million five hundred thousand dollars.
(ORC 2915.093)
517.10 LOCATION OF INSTANT BINGO.
   (a)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in Section
517.09, with the charitable instant bingo organization to assist in the conduct
of instant bingo other than at a bingo session.
   (b)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (c)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in subsection (a) of this section shall violate any provision of
Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid, or abet any other person in violating
any provision of Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (d)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in subsection (a) of this section shall violate the terms of the
contract.
   (e)   (1)    Whoever violates subsection (c) or (d) of this section is
guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
subsection, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of subsection (c)
or (d) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony and shall be
prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (2)   If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly violates subsection (c) or (d) of this section, any license that the
owner or lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner's or
lessor's premises that is issued by the State or a political subdivision is
subject to suspension, revocation, or payment of a monetary penalty at the
request of the Attorney General. (ORC 2915.094)
517.11 BINGO OR GAME OF CHANCE RECORDS.
   (a)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to Section
517.02(d), shall fail to maintain the following records for at least three
years from the date on which the bingo or game of chance is conducted:
      (1)    An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each electronic instant bingo game by
serial number, each raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance, and
an itemized list of the gross profits of each game of instant bingo by serial
number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number;
      (2)    An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;
      (3)    A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of instant
bingo by serial number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number,
and the name, address, and social security number of all persons who are
winners of prizes of six hundred dollars ($600.00) or more in value;
      (4)   An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of the bingo
or game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to whom the
money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net profit of bingo, or
the money or assets received from a game of chance, for any charitable or other
purpose set forth in Section
517.01(j), Section
517.02(d), or Ohio R.C. 2915.101, a list of each purpose and an itemized list
of each expenditure for each purpose;
      (5)   The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;
      (6)   A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if the
receipts were excluded from "gross receipts" Section
517.01(aa);
      (7)    An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game, or each game of instant bingo or electronic
instant bingo conducted by the charitable organization in the sale of food and
beverages by the charitable organization or by an auxiliary unit or society of
the charitable organization, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses.
   (b)    A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is required
to maintain pursuant to subsection (a) of this section at its principal place
of business in this State or at its headquarters in this State and shall notify
the Attorney General of the location at which those records are kept.
   (c)   The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in Section
517.01(b)(1) or (2) shall be deposited into a checking account devoted
exclusively to the bingo session or game. Payments for allowable expenses
incurred in conducting the bingo session or game and payments to recipients of
some or all of the net profit of the bingo session or game shall be made only
by checks or electronic fund transfers drawn on the bingo session or game
account.
   (d)   Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory of
all of its bingo supplies as of the first day of November of each year.
   (e)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with Ohio R.C.
Chapter 119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping, and
reporting to ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance are
properly accounted for.
   (f)   A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three (3) years after
the date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its
selling or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use in this
State. The record shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;
      (2)   The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;
      (3)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies;
      (4)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each charitable organization.
   (g)   A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three (3) years after
the date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its
selling or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this State. The record
shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;
      (2)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers;
      (3)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each distributor.
   (h)   (1)   The Attorney General, or any law enforcement agency, may do all
of the following:
         A.   Investigate any charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer or any officer, agent, trustee, member, or employee of the
organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         B.   Examine the accounts and records of the charitable organization,
distributor, or manufacturer or of any officer, agent, trustee, member, or
employee of the organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         C.   Conduct inspections, audits, and observations of bingo or games
of chance;
         D.   Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of
chance are conducted or where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed;
         E.   Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915 has
occurred and to determine whether Section
517.12 has been complied with.
      (2)    If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe
that a charitable organization, distributor, or manufacturer or an officer,
agent, trustee, member, or employee of the organization, distributor, or
manufacturer has violated any provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter
2915, the law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper court to
enforce this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915, provided that the law
enforcement agency shall give written notice to the Attorney General when
commencing an action as described in this division.
   (i)    No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold, or deny access to
any accounts or records of a charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer that have been requested for examination, or obstruct, impede, or
interfere with any inspection, audit, or observation of bingo or a game of
chance, of premises where bingo or a game of chance is conducted, or of
premises where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed, or refuse to
comply with any reasonable request of, or obstruct, impede, or interfere with
any other reasonable action undertaken by, the Attorney General or a law
enforcement agency pursuant to subsection (h) hereof.
   (j)   Whoever violates subsection (a) or (i) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. (ORC 2915.10)
517.12 BINGO OPERATOR PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   No person shall be a bingo game operator unless he is eighteen (18)
years of age or older.
   (b)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or a gambling offense in
any jurisdiction shall be a bingo game operator.
   (c)   Whoever violates subsection (a) hereof is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
   (d)   Whoever violates subsection (b) hereof is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree. (ORC 2915.11)
517.13 BINGO EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Ohio R.C. 2915.07 to 2915.11 and 2915.14 or Section
517.06 et seq. of this chapter do not apply to bingo games that are conducted
for the purpose of amusement only. A bingo game is conducted for the purpose of
amusement only if it complies with all of the requirements specified in either
subsection (a)(1) or (2) hereof:
      (1)   A.   The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value including an admission fee, or any fee for bingo cards, sheets, objects
to cover the spaces or other devices used in playing bingo, for the privilege
of participating in the bingo game or to defray any costs of the game, or pay
tips or make donations during or immediately before or after the bingo game.
         B.   All prizes awarded during the course of the game are nonmonetary,
and in the form of merchandise, goods or entitlements to goods or services
only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00).
         C.   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or
other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         D.   The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten (10)
hours of any of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2915.07 to 2915.11 or Section
517.06  et seq. of this chapter;
            2.   A scheme or game of chance or bingo described in Section
517.01(b)(2).
         E.   The number of players participating in the bingo game does not
exceed fifty (50).
      (2)   A.   The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value
as an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than twenty-five cents
(25¢) to purchase a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the spaces or other
devices used in playing bingo.
         B.   The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for
bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
         C.   All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover
spaces or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay winners
monetary and nonmonetary prizes and to provide refreshments.
         D.   The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not
exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
         E.   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or
other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         F.   The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten (10) hours
of either of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2915.07 to 2915.15 or Section
517.06  et seq. of this chapter;
            2.   A scheme of chance or game of chance or bingo described in
Section
517.01 (b)(2).
         G.   All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo
game is conducted.
         H.   The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and
not more than twice in a calendar week.
   (b)   The Attorney General, or any local law enforcement agency, may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted for
purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the purported
amusement bingo game does not comply with subsection (a) hereof. A local law
enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper court to enforce this
section if the local law enforcement agency gives written notice to the
Attorney General when commencing the action. (ORC 2915.12)
517.14 INSTANT BINGO CONDUCT BY A VETERAN’S OR FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION.
   (a)   Subject to the requirements of Ohio R.C. 2915.14 and 2915.15
concerning electronic instant bingo, a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization authorized to conduct a bingo session
pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915 may conduct instant bingo, electronic
instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session under a type III license
issued under Ohio R.C. 2915.08 if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to
twelve (12) hours during any day, provided that the sale does not begin earlier
than 10:00 a.m. and ends not later than 2:00 a.m.
      (2)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to
its own premises and to its own members and invited guests.
      (3)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC 509
(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization
that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3),
and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written contract with
that organization as required in subsection (b) hereof.
   (b)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo
pursuant to subsection (a) hereof is raising money for another organization
that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC
501(a) and described in IRC 501(c), and that is in good standing in this state,
the veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting organization
shall execute a written contract with the organization that is described in IRC
509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC
501(c), and that is in good standing in this state in order to conduct instant
bingo or electronic instant bingo. That contract shall include a statement of
the percentage of the net proceeds that the veteranfs, fraternal, or sporting
organization will be distributing to the organization that is described in IRC
509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC
501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this state.
   (c)   (1)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo
pursuant to subsection (b) hereof has been issued a liquor permit under Ohio
R.C. Chapter 4303, that permit may be subject to suspension, revocation, or
cancellation if the veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization violates a provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (2)   No veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to subsection (b)
hereof shall violate any provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915,
or permit, aid, or abet any other person in violating any provision of this
chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (d)   A veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to the organization with which the
veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting organization has
entered into a written contract.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, illegal instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of this section, illegal instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2915.13)
517.15 SEIZURE AND DESTRUCTION OF GAMBLING DEVICES.
   Upon adjudication by the courts that any apparatus, books, tickets, tokens,
tables, machines, instruments or devices were so kept, used, maintained or
intended for the purpose of gambling in violation of this chapter or of State
law, the court shall forthwith order the destruction of all such property by
the Public Safety Department of this City.
517.16 SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINES.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall give to another person any item described in
Section
517.01(ff)(1), (2), (3), or (4) in exchange for a noncash prize, toy, or
novelty received as a reward for playing or operating a skill-based amusement
machine or for a free or reduced-prize game won on a skill- based amusement
machine.
      (2)   Whoever violates subsection (a)(1) of this section is guilty of
skill-based amusement machine prohibited conduct. Except as provided herein, a
violation of subsection (a)(1) is a misdemeanor of the first degree for each
redemption of a prize that is involved in the violation. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of subsection (a)(1), a violation
of subsection (a)(1) is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate
State law.
         (ORC 2915.06)
   (b)   Any regulation of skill-based amusement machines shall be governed by
this chapter and Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915 and not by Ohio R.C. Chapter 1345.
(ORC 2915.061)
517.17 ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (a)   No charitable organization shall conduct electronic instant bingo
unless all of the following are true:
      (1)    The organization is a veteran’s organization described in Ohio
R.C. 2915.01(J), or is a fraternal organization described in Ohio R.C. 2915.01
(L), and the organization qualified as a veteran’s organization or fraternal
organization, as applicable, on or before June 30, 2021.
      (2)    The organization is a veteran’s organization described in IRC 501
(c)(4) or is, and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the organization
is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), and is described in
IRC 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or 501(c)(19).
      (3)    The organization has not conducted a raffle in violation of Ohio
R.C. 2915.092(B) using an electronic raffle machine, as described in Ohio
Veterans and Fraternal Charitable Coalition v. DeWine, Case No. 13-CV-13610
(C.P. Franklin Co. February 23, 2018), at any time on or after January 1, 2022.
   (b)   No charitable organization that conducts electronic instant bingo
shall do any of the following:
      (1)    Possess an electronic instant bingo system that was not obtained
in accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915 or with any rule adopted under Ohio
R.C. Chapter 2915;
      (2)    Conduct electronic instant bingo on any day, at any time, or on
any premises not specified on the organization’s type II or type III license
issued under Ohio R.C. 2915.08;
      (3)    Hold more than one valid license to conduct electronic instant
bingo at any one time;
      (4)    Conduct electronic instant bingo on more than one premises or on
any premises other than the charitable organization’s principal place of
business;
      (5)    Operate more than ten electronic bingo systems at the premises on
which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo under its
license;
      (6)    Fail to display both of the following conspicuously at the
premises on which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant
bingo:
         A.   The charitable organization’s bingo license;
         B.   The serial number of each deal of electronic instant bingo
tickets being sold.
      (7)    Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under eighteen (18) years of age to play electronic instant
bingo;
      (8)    Sell or provide to any person an electronic instant bingo ticket
for a price different from the price displayed on the game flare for that deal,
except that the charitable organization may give a participant who wins an
electronic instant bingo game an electronic instant bingo ticket as a prize in
place of a cash prize;
      (9)    Fail, once an electronic instant bingo deal is begun, to continue
to sell tickets in that deal until all prizes have been awarded;
      (10)    Permit any person whom the organization knows, or should have
known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction
to be a bingo game operator in the conduct of electronic instant bingo;
      (11)    Permit a bingo game operator to play electronic instant bingo;
      (12)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (b)(12)B. hereof,
pay compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting electronic instant
bingo.
         B.   Subsection (b)(12)A. hereof does not prohibit an employee of a
veteran’s organization or fraternal organization from redeeming electronic
instant bingo tickets or vouchers for the organization’s members or invited
guests, so long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid from any
bingo receipts.
      (13)    Pay consulting fees to any person in relation to electronic
instant bingo.
   (c)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or otherwise provide or offer to
provide an electronic instant bingo system to any person for use in this
municipality unless the electronic instant bingo system has been approved under
Ohio R.C. 2915.15.
   (d)   Whoever knowingly violates subsection (a), (b) or (c) hereof or a rule
adopted under Ohio R.C. 2915.14(D) is guilty of illegal electronic instant
bingo conduct. Illegal electronic instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the
first degree, except that if the offender previously has been convicted of a
violation of subsection (a) or (b) hereof, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or state law, or of a rule adopted under Ohio R.C. 2915.14
(D), illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(ORC 2915.14)
517.99 PENALTY.
   (EDITOR'S NOTE: See Section
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.)
CHAPTER 521
Health, Safety and Sanitation
521.01   Abandoned refrigerators and airtight containers.
521.02   Venting of heaters and burners.
521.03   Barricades and warning lights, abandoned excavations.
521.04   Placing article on sidewalk that may cause damage or injury.
521.05   Damage to, obstruction of, sidewalk.
521.06   Notice to fill lots, remove putrid substances.
521.07   Owner or occupant to keep sidewalks and unpaved right-of-way in
repair, clean and mowed.
521.08   Fences, electric and barbed wire prohibited.
521.09   Littering and deposit of garbage, rubbish, junk, etc.
521.10   Noxious or offensive odors.
521.11   Spitting.
521.12   Placing snow or debris on paved streets and public rights-of-way.
521.13   Cisterns, wells and cesspools.
521.14   Signs on public property.
521.15   Failure to remove dirt, debris from streets.
521.16   Excavation liability; duty to clean; completion requirements.
521.17   Trimming trees and bushes.
521.18   Spreading contagion.
521.99   Penalty.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Excavation liability - see ORC 723.49 et seq.
Nuisances - see ORC Ch. 3767.
Injurious material or obstruction in streets - see TRAF.
311.01.
Vehicle loads dropping or leaking - see TRAF.
339.08.
Barriers and warning lights - see ST. & PUB. SV. Ch.
903.
Garbage and refuse - see ST. & PUB. SV. Ch.
931.
Tampering with safety devices - see GEN. OFF.
541.04
 
 
521.01 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS AND AIRTIGHT CONTAINERS.
   (a)   No person shall abandon, discard, or knowingly permit to remain on
premises under his control, in a place accessible to children, any abandoned or
discarded icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or semiairtight container
which has a capacity of one and one-half cubic feet or more and an opening of
fifty square inches or more and which has a door or lid equipped with hinge,
latch or other fastening device capable of securing such door or lid, without
rendering such equipment harmless to human life by removing such hinges,
latches or other hardware which may cause a person to be confined therein. This
section shall not apply to an icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or
semiairtight container located in that part of a building occupied by a dealer,
warehouseman or repairman. (ORC 3767.29)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
521.02 VENTING OF HEATERS AND BURNERS.
   (a)   A brazier, salamander, space heater, room heater, furnace, water
heater or other burner or heater using wood, coal, coke, fuel oil, kerosene,
gasoline, natural gas, liquid petroleum gas or similar fuel, and tending to
give off carbon monoxide or other harmful gas:
      (1)   When used in living quarters, or in any enclosed building or space
in which persons are usually present, shall be used with a flue or vent so
designed, installed and maintained as to vent the products of combustion
outdoors; except in storage, factory or industrial buildings which are provided
with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide poisoning;
      (2)   When used as a portable or temporary burner or heater at a
construction site, or in a warehouse, shed or structure in which persons are
temporarily present, shall be vented as provided in subsection (a) hereof, or
used with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide
poisoning.
   (b)   This section does not apply to domestic ranges, laundry stoves, gas
logs installed in a fireplace with an adequate flue, or hot plates, unless the
same are used as space or room heaters.
   (c)   No person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in
charge, or occupant of premises, negligently permit the use of a burner or
heater in violation of the standards for venting and ventilation provided in
this section.
   (d)   Subsection (a) hereof does not apply to any kerosene-fired space or
room heater that is equipped with an automatic extinguishing tip-over device,
or to any natural gas-fired or liquid petroleum gas-fired space or room heater
that is equipped with an oxygen depletion safety shutoff system, and that has
its fuel piped from a source outside of the building in which it is located,
that are approved by an authoritative source recognized by the State Fire
Marshal in the State Fire Code adopted by him under Ohio R.C. 3737.82.
   (e)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules to ensure the safe use of
unvented kerosene, natural gas or liquid petroleum gas heaters exempted from
subsection (a) hereof when used in assembly buildings, business buildings, high
hazard buildings, institutional buildings, mercantile buildings and type R-
1 and R-2 residential buildings, as these groups of buildings are defined in
rules adopted by the Board of Building Standards under Ohio R.C. 3781.10. No
person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in charge or occupant
of premises, negligently permit the use of a heater in violation of any rules
adopted under this subsection.
   (f)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules prescribing standards for
written instructions containing ventilation requirements and warning of any
potential fire hazards that may occur in using a kerosene, natural gas, or
liquid petroleum gas heater. No person shall sell or offer for sale any
kerosene, natural gas or liquid petroleum gas heater unless the manufacturer
provides with the heater written instructions that comply with any rules
adopted under this subsection.
   (g)   No product labeled as a fuel additive for kerosene heaters and having
a flash point below one hundred degrees fahrenheit or thirty-seven and eight-
tenths degrees centigrade shall be sold, offered for sale or used in any
kerosene space heater.
   (h)   No device that prohibits any safety feature on a kerosene, natural gas
or liquid petroleum gas space heater from operating shall be sold, offered for
sale or used in connection with any kerosene, natural gas or liquid petroleum
gas space heater.
   (i)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any kerosene-fired, natural gas
or liquid petroleum gas-fired heater that is not exempt from subsection (a)
hereof unless it is marked conspicuously by the manufacturer on the container
with the phrase "Not Approved For Home Use."
   (j)   No person shall use a cabinet-type, liquid petroleum gas-fired heater
having a fuel source within the heater, inside any building, except as
permitted by the State Fire Marshal in the State Fire Code adopted by him under
Ohio R.C. 3737.82. (ORC 3701.82)
   (k)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC 3701.99(C))
521.03 BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS; ABANDONED EXCAVATIONS.
   (a)   No person shall abandon or knowingly permit to remain on public or
private property, any excavation, well, cesspool or structure which is in the
process of construction, reconstruction, repair or alteration unless it is
adequately protected by suitable barricades and guarded by warning devices or
lights at night so that the condition will not prove unreasonably dangerous to
life or limb. On streets such protection shall be in accordance with the State
Department of Transportation, "Construction and Material Specifications."
   (b)   No person shall destroy; remove, damage or extinguish any barricade or
warning light that is placed for the protection of the public so as to prevent
injury to life or limb.
   (c)   Any owner or agent in control of a premises upon which a basement,
cellar, well or cistern has been abandoned due to demolition, failure to build
or any other reason shall cause the same to be filled to the ground surface
with rock, earth or other suitable material. (See
521.13. )
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. (See
521.12.)
521.04   PLACING ARTICLE ON SIDEWALK THAT MAY CAUSE DAMAGE OR INJURY.
   (a)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a sidewalk,
playground or other public place any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or
other articles which may damage property of another or injure any person or
animal traveling along or upon such sidewalk or playground.
 
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
521.05 DAMAGE TO, OBSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALK.
   (a)   No person shall walk on, or allow any animal upon, or injure or deface
in any way, any soft or newly laid sidewalk pavement.
 
   (b)   No person shall unload upon, or transport any heavy merchandise,
goods, material or equipment over or across any sidewalk or curb without first
placing some sufficient protection over the pavement to protect against damage
or injury. The affected area shall be rendered safe and free from danger.
 
   (c)   No person shall place, deposit or maintain any merchandise, goods,
objects, materials or equipment upon any sidewalk so as to obstruct pedestrian
traffic thereon except for such reasonable time as may be actually necessary
for the delivery or pickup of such articles. In no case shall the obstruction
remain on such sidewalk for more than one hour.
   (d)   No person shall allow any cellar or trap door, coal chute or elevator
or lift opening in any sidewalk to remain open without providing suitable
safeguards to protect and warn pedestrian traffic of the dangerous condition.
 
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
Further, any person violating this section shall be subject also to a civil
penalty to be paid to the City in the amount of twice the cost of repairing
damage caused by that violation or otherwise eliminating the violation.
521.06 NOTICE TO FILL LOTS, REMOVE PUTRID SUBSTANCES.
   (a)   No person shall fail to comply with the following requirements within
the lawful time after service or publication of the notice or resolution is
made as required by ORC 715.47 or by any applicable City ordinance:
With regard to any lot or land owned by such person, to fill or drain such lot
or land on which water at any time becomes stagnant, to remove all putrid
substances therefrom, and remove all obstructions from culverts and covered
drains laid in any natural watercourse, creek, brook or branch which obstruct
the water naturally flowing therein, causing it to flow back or become
stagnant, in any way prejudicial to the health, comfort or convenience of any
of the citizens of the neighborhood and, if necessary, enlarge such culverts or
covered drains to meet the requirements thereof. Provisions regarding notice
and authority of the City to perform such work in the event of the failure or
refusal of such person to do so shall be as provided in ORC 715.47.
   B.   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 3335. Passed 2-21-83.)
521.07    OWNER OR OCCUPANT TO KEEP SIDEWALKS AND UNPAVED RIGHT OF WAY IN
REPAIR AND CLEAN.
   (a)   No owner or occupant of abutting land shall fail to keep the
sidewalks, curbs, gutters, driveways between the street and the private
property line, and any other portion of the unpaved right-of-way, including the
park strip between the paved street and the sidewalk, maintained, with
vegetation trimmed and grass mowed, in good repair, and free from snow, ice,
grass clippings on the sidewalk, or any other nuisance.
 
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. (ORC
723.011) [See also 17-107.01,
 521.17 and
 501.99] (Ord. 3639. Passed 4-20-87; Ord. 3676. Passed 7-13- 87; Ord 3683.
Passed 8-24-87.)
521.08 FENCES, ELECTRIC AND BARBED WIRE PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall erect or maintain any fence charged with electrical
current.
 
   (b)   No person shall erect or maintain a barbed wire fence.
 
   (c)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
521.09   LITTERING AND DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH, JUNK, ETC.
   (a)   No person shall, without lawful authority, place or dispose of in any
manner, upon any public property or upon the premises of another, any paper,
trash, garbage, waste, rubbish, refuse, junk or any substance or material which
is or may become noxious, offensive, injurious or dangerous to the public
health, comfort or safety.
 
   (b)   This section shall not be deemed to have application to United States
mail delivery, to the delivery of newspapers at or near the front doors of
residences or other buildings, or to the delivery or placing of any legal
notice, document or message to or at any premises, or to the placing of
necessary barricades, structures or materials on the public streets and places
by employees of the City or by its contractors. Nor shall this subsection be
construed to preclude the placement of leaves or other material allowed by the
City to be placed upon unpaved right of way in front of the property owned by
such person.
(Ord. 2417. Passed 3-15-66; Ord. 2516. Passed 11-20-67.)
   (c)   No person shall cause or allow trash, garbage, waste, rubbish, refuse
or any other noxious or offensive materials or substances to be collected or
remain in any place to the damage or prejudice of others or of the public, or
unlawfully and unreasonably obstruct, impede or divert any natural watercourse
or corrupt or render unwholesome or impure, any such watercourse.
 
   (d)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
521.10 NOXIOUS OR OFFENSIVE ODORS.
   (a)   No person shall erect, continue, use or maintain a dwelling, building,
structure or place for a residence or for the exercise of a trade, employment
or business, or for the keeping or feeding of an animal which, by occasioning
noxious exhalations or noisome or offensive smells, becomes injurious to the
health, comfort or property of individuals or of the public. (Also see
505.08 as to nuisance conditions regarding animals or fowl.)
 
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
521.11 SPITTING.
   (a)   No person shall spit, excrete or expectorate any saliva or sputum upon
any sidewalk, or on the floor of any public conveyance, building, theater or
assembly hall, except in receptacles provided for such purpose.
 
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
521.12 PLACING SNOW OR DEBRIS ON PAVED STREETS AND PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (a)   No person shall transfer snow from private property to any public
street or right-of- way.
 
   (b)   No person shall place grass clippings, limbs, tree trimmings, or any
other form of debris on any public street or right-of-way, except as may be
allowed by City regulations or directive as to pick up of such materials by the
City.
 
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemanor.
(Ord. 4918. Passed 10-5-20.)
521.13 CISTERNS, WELLS AND CESSPOOLS.
   (a)   Owners, occupants and tenants of all properties in the City on which
are located cisterns, wells or cesspools shall maintain covers thereon at all
times when the openings thereto are not actually in use to gain access to such.
The covers shall be fastened by means of bolts or in such other manner that the
covers cannot be removed except by the use of wrenches or other tools.
 
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(See
 521.03.)
521.14 SIGNS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person, firm or corporation, either as principal, agent or
employee, shall erect, string, stretch or spread a sign, banner or any other
device across any street, alley or other public place in the City, or attach
any such object to any public property, except as expressly permitted and
allowed by law.
 
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
521.15 FAILURE TO REMOVE DIRT, DEBRIS FROM STREET.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to remove any dirt, rock
and debris of any nature which has been deposited or dropped upon public
streets, rights of way, easements or other public property in connection with
the making of any excavation or the digging, grading or removal of any earth
material. To avoid a violation of this section, such removal shall be
accomplished within the normal construction working hours of the same day such
material was so deposited or dropped; or such removal shall be accomplished
immediately if, in the opinion of the Safety Director or his authorized
representative, such earth material constitutes a traffic hazard. This
prohibition shall apply only to the owner of the property upon which such work
is being performed, to the person, firm or organization acting as the general
contractor having supervision over such work, and to any person, firm or
organization actually performing such work. If such cleaning is not performed
in a timely manner, the City shall have the right to remove the dirt, rock and
debris and to recover the cost of such work jointly and severally against such
persons.
 
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. (Ord. 2801. Passed 3-19-73; Ord. 2879. Passed 5-20-74.)
521.16   EXCAVATION LIABILITY; DUTY TO CLEAN; COMPLETION REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   In the making of any excavation or in the digging and removal of any
earth material, the owner, the person contracting for such work and the person
performing such work all shall be jointly and severally liable to the City for
any damage to any property or easement of the City caused by or in connection
with such work, and shall also be jointly and severally liable for keeping all
rights of way and other City easements and property thoroughly cleaned of all
dirt, rock and other debris of any nature whatsoever caused by such work as
required by Section
521.15.
 
   (b)   All excavations shall be completed within six months from the date the
excavation was commenced (as, for example, by completing the construction of a
swimming pool and by covering such excavation with a house, even though the
construction of the house itself is not yet completed, etc.). If not so
completed, every such excavation must be filled in and restored as closely as
possible to its original condition prior to the commencement of such excavation
within such six month time period. This six month time requirement shall not
apply to excavations on properties which are occupied by the owner throughout
the work involved in such excavation. The owner of the property and the person
who contracted for such excavation work shall be jointly and severally liable
for the performance of this requirement. In the event that such persons do not
have excavation completed as described above or filed in within the six month
time period, the City shall have the right to fill in such excavation forthwith
and to recover the cost of such work jointly and severally against the
forenamed persons.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. (Ord. 2878. Passed 5-20-74; Ord. 2974. Passed 10-4-76.)
521.17   TRIMMING OF TREES AND BUSHES BY OWNERS OF PROPERTY.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of owners of property abutting on any public
street in the City to trim all trees and bushes situated on their property (as
opposed to be situated on the public right- of-way) so as to leave a clearance
of not less than eight feet above every public sidewalk and of not less than
fourteen feet above every public street.
 
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(See
521.07,
501.99 and 17-107.01.) (Ord. 2892. Passed 9-9-74; Ord. 3406. Passed 3-5-84.)
521.18 SPREADING CONTAGION.
   (a)   No person, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the
person has a dangerous, contagious disease, shall knowingly fail to take
reasonable measures to prevent exposing self to other persons, except when
seeking medical aid.
 
   (b)   No person, having charge or care of a person whom the person having
charge or care knows or has reasonable cause to believe has a dangerous,
contagious disease, shall recklessly fail to take reasonable measures to
protect others from exposure to the contagion, and to inform health authorities
of the existence of the contagion.
 
   (c)   No person, having charge of a public conveyance or place of public
accommodation, amusement, resort or trade, and knowing or having reasonable
cause to believe that persons using such conveyance or place have been or are
being exposed to a dangerous, contagious disease, shall negligently fail to
take reasonable measures to protect the public from exposure to the contagion,
and to inform health authorities of the existence of the contagion.
(ORC 3701.81)
 
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
(ORC 3701.99(C))
521.99 PENALTY.
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: See Section
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.)
CHAPTER 523
Junk Cars
523.01   Definitions.
523.02   Junk cars on streets and property.
523.03   Impounding.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Impounding of vehicles - see TRAF.
303.08.
Littering and deposit of garbage, rubbish, junk, etc. - see GEN. OFF.
521.08.
 
 
523.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this chapter:
   (a)   "Junk vehicle" means one not capable of legal operation on public
streets in accordance with applicable ordinances and laws. The fact that a
vehicle is not equipped with license plates as required by state law shall mean
that it is not capable of such legal operation on public streets. Further, a
junk vehicle is also defined as one that is partially dismantled, wrecked or
deteriorating to such an extent that its continued presence would create a
negative impact on property values and/or create a blighting influence on the
neighborhood.
   (b)   "Persons" means any person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company or organization of any kind.
   (c)   "Property" means any real property within the City which is not a
street or highway.
   (d)   "Street" or "highway" means the entire width between the boundary
lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   (e)   "Vehicle" means a machine propelled by power other than human power
designed to travel along the ground by use of wheels or treads and to transport
persons or property or pull machinery. The word incudes, without limitation,
automobile, truck, trailer, bus, motorcycle and tractor.
523.02 JUNK CARS ON STREETS AND PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall leave or park any junk vehicle on any part of a public
street right- of-way within the City. This ordinance shall not apply to the
length of time such a vehicle is left upon public street right-of-way after an
accident and while the parties are waiting for the police or for a tow truck to
arrive.
   (b)   Other property: No person shall leave or park any junk vehicle in the
open (i.e., not closed in a building that complies with zoning requirements) on
any property in the City 24 consecutive hours or for more than 24 total hours
within any week. This restriction shall not apply to commercial garages or
repair shops to the extent such uses are operated in a lawful manner including
compliance with the Zoning Code.
   (c)   No person in charge or control of any property in the City, whether as
owner, tenant, occupant or otherwise, shall allow any junk vehicle to remain in
the open (i.e., not enclosed in a building that complies with zoning
requirements) for more than the time allowed in Section
523.02(b). This restriction shall not apply to commercial garages or repair
shops to the extent such uses are operated in a lawful manner including
compliance with the Zoning Code.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute
a separate offense.
(Ord. 3040. Passed 4-3-78; Ord. 3716. Passed 1-4-88.)
523.03 IMPOUNDING.
   The Safety Director or any member of his department designated by him is
hereby authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle left at any place
within the City which is in violation of this chapter. Such vehicle shall be
impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with any
applicable City ordinance and, if none, with state statutes. (See ORC 737.29
through .33 and 4513.60 through .63.)
CHAPTER 525
Law Enforcement and Public Office
525.01   Definitions.
525.02   Falsification.
525.03   Impersonation of peace officer.
525.04   Compounding a crime.
525.05   Failure to report a crime, injury or knowledge of death.
525.06   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer.
525.07   Obstructing official business.
525.08   Obstructing justice.
525.09   Resisting arrest.
525.10   Having an unlawful interest in a public contract.
525.11   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation.
525.12   Dereliction of duty.
525.13   Interfering with civil rights.
525.14   Unauthorized display of law enforcement emblems on motor vehicles.
525.15   Assaulting police dog or horse or an assistance dog.
525.16   Failure to answer summons.
525.17   False allegation of peace officer misconduct.
525.18   Refusal to disclose personal information in public place.
525.99   Penalty.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
See sectional histories for similar State law
Law enforcement officer defined - see GEN. OFF.
501.01(k)
Misconduct at an emergency - see GEN. OFF.
509.05
Making false alarms - see GEN. OFF.
509.07
Personating an officer to defraud - see GEN. OFF.
545.16
 
 
525.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (a)   "Public official" means any elected or appointed officer, or employee,
or agent of the State or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a
temporary or permanent capacity, and includes, but is not limited to,
legislators, judges and law enforcement officers. “Public official” does not
include an employee, officer, or governor-appointed member of the board of
directors of the nonprofit corporation formed under Ohio R.C. 187.01.
   (b)   "Public servant" means any of the following:
      (1)   Any public official;
      (2)   Any person performing ad hoc a governmental function, including,
but not limited to, a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor or consultant;
      (3)   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not the
person is elected or appointed to the office for which the person is a
candidate. A person is a candidate for purposes of this subsection if the
person has been nominated according to law for election or appointment to
public office, or if the person has filed a petition or petitions as required
by law to have the person’s name placed on the ballot in a primary, general or
special election, or if the person campaigns as a write-in candidate in any
primary, general or special election. “Public servant” does not include an
employee, officer, or governor-appointed member of the board of directors of
the nonprofit corporation formed under Ohio R.C. 187.01.
   (c)   "Party official" means any person who holds an elective or appointive
post in a political party in the United States or this State, by virtue of
which the person directs, conducts or participates in directing or conducting
party affairs at any level of responsibility.
   (d)   "Official proceeding" means any proceeding before a legislative,
judicial, administrative or other governmental agency or official authorized to
take evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary or other person taking testimony or a deposition
in connection with an official proceeding.
   (e)   "Detention" means arrest, confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an
arrest, confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons
charged with or convicted of a crime in this State or another state or under
the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or
unruly child in this State or another state or under the laws of the United
States; hospitalization, institutionalization or confinement in any public or
private facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of Ohio
R.C. 2945.37, 2945.371, 2945.38, 2945.39 or 2945.40, 2945.401 or 2945.402;
confinement in any vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of
those natures; detention for extradition or deportation, except as provided in
this subsection, supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those
natures; that is incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization or
confinement in the facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision
by an employee of the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction of a person
on any type of release from a State correctional institution; or confinement in
any vehicle, airplane, or place while being returned from outside of this State
into this State by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered
into under Ohio R.C. 311.29(E) or Ohio R.C. 5149.03(B). For a person confined
in a county jail who participates in a county jail industry program pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 5147.30, "detention" includes time spent at an assigned work site and
going to and from the work site.
   (f)   "Detention facility" means any public or private place used for the
confinement of a person charged with or convicted of any crime in this State or
another state or under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be
a delinquent child or unruly child in this State or another state or under the
laws of the United States.
   (g)   "Valuable thing or valuable benefit" includes, but is not limited to,
a contribution. This inclusion does not indicate or imply that a contribution
was not included in those terms before September 17, 1986.
   (h)   "Campaign committee," "contribution," "political action committee,"
“legislative campaign fund”, "political party" and “political contributing
entity” have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 3517.01.
   (i)   "Provider agreement" has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 5164.01.
      (ORC 2921.01)
525.02 FALSIFICATION.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly swear
or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, when any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The statement is made in any official proceeding.
      (2)   The statement is made with purpose to incriminate another.
      (3)   The statement is made with purpose to mislead a public official in
performing the public official’s official function.
      (4)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the payment of
unemployment compensation; Ohio works first; prevention, retention and
contingency benefits and services; disability financial assistance; retirement
benefits or health care coverage from a state retirement system; economic
development assistance as defined in Ohio R.C. 9.66; or other benefits
administered by a governmental agency or paid out of a public treasury.
      (5)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the issuance by a
governmental agency of a license, permit, authorization, certificate,
registration, release or provider agreement.
      (6)   The statement is sworn or affirmed before a notary public or
another person empowered to administer oaths.
      (7)   The statement is in writing on or in connection with a report or
return that is required or authorized by law.
      (8)   The statement is in writing, and is made with purpose to induce
another to extend credit to or employ the offender, or to confer any degree,
diploma, certificate of attainment, award of excellence or honor on the
offender, or to extend to or bestow upon the offender any other valuable
benefit or distinction, when the person to whom the statement is directed
relies upon it to that person’s detriment.
      (9)   The statement is made with purpose to commit or facilitate the
commission of a theft offense.
      (10)   The statement is knowingly made to a probate court in connection
with any action, proceeding or other matter within its jurisdiction, either
orally or in a written document, including, but not limited to, an application,
petition, complaint or other pleading, or an inventory, account or report.
      (11)   The statement is made on an account, form, record, stamp, label or
other writing that is required by law.
      (12)   The statement is made in a document or instrument of writing that
purports to be a judgment, lien, or claim of indebtedness and is filed or
recorded with the Secretary of State, a county recorder, or the clerk of a
court of record.
      (13)   The statement is required under Ohio R.C. 5743.71 in connection
with the person’s purchase of cigarettes or tobacco products in a delivery
sale.
   (b)   It is no defense to a charge under subsection (a)(6) hereof that the
oath or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner.
   (c)   If contradictory statements relating to the same fact are made by the
offender within the period of the statute of limitations for falsification, it
is not necessary for the prosecution to prove which statement was false, but
only that one or the other was false.
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of subsection (a)(1) to (8) or
(10) to (13) hereof is guilty of falsification, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates subsection (a)(9) hereof is guilty of
falsification in a theft offense, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
value of the property or services stolen is one thousand dollars ($1,000) or
more, falsification in a theft offense is a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate State law.
   (e)   A person who violates this section is liable in a civil action to any
person harmed by the violation for injury, death, or loss to person or property
incurred as a result of the commission of the offense and for reasonable
attorney’s fees, court costs, and other expenses incurred as a result of
prosecuting the civil action commenced under this section. A civil action under
this section is not the exclusive remedy of a person who incurs injury, death,
or loss to person or property as a result of a violation of this section.
(ORC 2921.13)
525.03 IMPERSONATION OF PEACE OFFICER.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Peace officer" means a sheriff, deputy sheriff, marshal, deputy
marshal, member of the organized police department of a municipal corporation
or township constable who is employed by a political subdivision of this State;
a member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
Ohio R.C. 3735.31(D); a member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under Ohio R.C. 306.35(Y), a State university law enforcement officer
appointed under Ohio R.C. 3345.04; a veterans' home police officer appointed
under Ohio R.C. 5907.02; a special police officer employed by a port authority
under Ohio R.C. 4582.04 or 4582.28; an officer, agent, or employee of the State
or any of its agencies, instrumentalities or political subdivisions, upon whom,
by statute, a duty to conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is
imposed and the authority to arrest violators is conferred, within limits of
that statutory duty and authority; or a State highway patrol trooper whose
primary duties are to preserve the peace, to protect life and property and to
enforce the laws, ordinances or rules of the State or any of its political
subdivisions.
      (2)   "Private police officer" means any security guard, special police
officer, private detective or other person who is privately employed in a
police capacity.
      (3)   “Federal law enforcement officer” means an employee of the United
States who serves in a position the duties of which are primarily the
investigation, apprehension or detention of individuals suspected or convicted
of offenses under the criminal laws of the United States.
      (4)   “Investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2903.11.
      (5)   "Impersonate" means to act the part of, assume the identity of,
wear the uniform or any part of the uniform of or display the identification of
a particular person or of a member of a class of persons with purpose to make
another person believe that the actor is that particular person or is a member
of that class of persons.
   (b)   No person shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer,
federal law enforcement officer or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation.
   (c)   No person, by impersonating a peace officer, private police officer,
federal law enforcement officer, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation, shall arrest or detain any person, search any
person or search the property of any person.
   (d)   No person, with purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of an
offense, shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer, federal law
enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the State or the
Municipality or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation.
   (e)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under subsection (b) hereof
that the impersonation of the peace officer was for a lawful purpose.
   (f)   Whoever violates subsection (b) hereof is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. Whoever violates subsections (c) or (d) hereof is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the purpose of a violation of subsection
(d) hereof is to commit or facilitate the commission of a felony, such
violation is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law. (ORC
2921.51)
525.04 COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly demand, accept or agree to accept anything
of value in consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon a pending
criminal prosecution.
   (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section when both
of the following apply:
      (1)   The pending prosecution involved is for violation of Sections
545.05,
545.07,
545.09 or
545.10(b)(2), or Ohio R.C. 2913.02, 2913.11, 2913.21(B)(2) or 2913.47, of which
the actor under this section was the victim.
      (2)   The thing of value demanded, accepted or agreed to be accepted, in
consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon the prosecution, did not
exceed an amount that the actor reasonably believed due him as restitution for
the loss caused him by the offense.
   (c)   When a prosecuting witness abandons or agrees to abandon a prosecution
under subsection (b) hereof, the abandonment or agreement in no way binds the
State or Municipality to abandoning the prosecution.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of compounding a crime, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. (ORC 2921.21)
525.05 FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME, INJURY OR KNOWLEDGE OF DEATH.
   (a)   (1)   Except as provided in subsection (a)(2) hereof, no person,
knowing that a felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly fail to
report such information to law enforcement authorities.
      (2)   No person, knowing that a violation of division (B) of Ohio R.C.
2913.04 has been, or is being committed or that the person has received
information derived from such a violation, shall knowingly fail to report the
violation to law enforcement authorities.
   (b)   Except for conditions that are within the scope of subsection (e) of
this section, no person giving aid to a sick or injured person shall
negligently fail to report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab
wound treated or observed by the person, or any serious physical harm to
persons that the person knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from
an offense of violence.
   (c)   No person who discovers the body or acquires the first knowledge of
the death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician
or advanced practice registered nurse whom the person knows to be treating the
deceased for a condition from which death at such time would not be unexpected,
or to a law enforcement officer, an ambulance service, an emergency squad, or
the coroner in a political subdivision in which the body is discovered, the
death is believed to have occurred, or knowledge concerning the death is
obtained. For purposes of this subsection (c), “advanced practice registered
nurse” does not include a certified registered nurse anesthetist.
   (d)   No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a
report required by subsection (c) of this section was made, or to any law
enforcement officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to
investigate the circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within the
person’s knowledge that may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.
   (e)   (1)   As used in this subsection, “burn injury” means any of the
following:
         A.   Second or third degree burns;
         B.   Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due
to the inhalation of superheated air;
         C.   Any burn injury or wound that may result in death;
         D.   Any physical harm to persons caused by or as the result of the
use of fireworks, novelties and trick noisemakers, and wire sparklers, as each
is defined by Ohio R.C. 3743.01.
      (2)   No physician, nurse, physician assistant, or limited practitioner
who, outside a hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility, attends or
treats a person who has sustained a burn injury that is inflicted by an
explosion or other incendiary device, or that shows evidence of having been
inflicted in a violent, malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the
burn injury immediately to the local arson, or fire and explosion
investigation, bureau, if there is a bureau of this type in the jurisdiction in
which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement
authorities.
      (3)   No manager, superintendent or other person in charge of a hospital,
sanitarium or other medical facility in which a person is attended or treated
for any burn injury that is inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary
device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent,
malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately
to the local arson, or fire and explosion investigation, bureau, if there is a
bureau of this type in the jurisdiction in which the person is attended or
treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement authorities.
      (4)   No person who is required to report any burn injury under
subsection (e)(2) or (3) of this section shall fail to file, within three
working days after attending or treating the victim, a written report of the
burn injury with the office of the State Fire Marshal. The report shall comply
with the uniform standard developed by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to Ohio
R.C. 3737.22(A)(15).
      (5)   Anyone participating in the making of reports under subsection (e)
of this section or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from
the reports is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might
be incurred or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding Ohio R.C.
4731.22, the physician-patient relationship or advanced practice registered
nurse-patient relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding a
person’s burn injury or the cause of the burn injury in any judicial proceeding
resulting from a report submitted under subsection (e) of this section.
   (f)    (1)    No person who knows that a licensed medical professional has
committed an offense under Ohio R.C. Chapter 2907, a violation of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to such offense, or a substantially
equivalent criminal offense in another jurisdiction, against a patient of the
licensed medical professional shall fail to report such knowledge to law
enforcement authorities within thirty days of obtaining the knowledge.
      (2)    Except for a self-report or participation in the offense or
violation being reported, any person who makes a report within the thirty-day
period provided in subsection (f)(1) of this section or any person who
participates in a judicial proceeding that results from such report is immune
from civil or criminal liability that otherwise might be incurred or imposed as
a result of making that report or participating in that proceeding so long as
the person is acting in good faith without fraud or malice.
      (3)    The physician-patient relationship or physician assistant-patient
relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding the person’s
knowledge of a licensed medical professional’s commission of an offense or
violation reported under subsection (f)(1) of this section, against that
licensed medical professional in any judicial proceeding resulting from a
report made under that division.
      (4)    As used in subsection (f) of this section, “licensed medical
professional” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2907.01.
   (g)   (1)   Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern
or resident, nurse, psychologist, social worker, independent social worker,
social work assistant, licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed
professional counselor, independent marriage and family therapist or marriage
and family therapist who knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a
patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence, as defined in Ohio
R.C. 3113.31, shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for it in the
patient’s or client’s records.
      (2)   Notwithstanding Ohio R.C. 4731.22, the physician-patient privilege
or advanced practice registered nurse-patient privilege shall not be a ground
for excluding any information regarding the report containing the knowledge or
belief noted under subsection (f)(1) of this section, and the information may
be admitted as evidence in accordance with the Rules of Evidence.
   (h)   Subsections (a) and (d) of this section do not require disclosure of
information, when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between
attorney and client; physician and patient; advanced practice registered nurse
and patient; licensed psychologist or licensed school psychologist and client;
licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed professional counselor,
independent social worker, social worker, independent marriage and family
therapist, or marriage and family therapist and client; member of the clergy,
rabbi, minister, or priest and any person communicating information
confidentially to the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister, or priest for a
religious counseling purpose of a professional character; husband and wife; or
a communications assistant and those who are a party to a telecommunications
relay service call.
      (2)   The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor’s
immediate family.
      (3)   Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news
source, privileged under Ohio R.C. 2739.04 or 2739.12.
      (4)   Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a
member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential
communication made to that member of the clergy in that member’s capacity as a
member of the clergy by a person seeking the aid or counsel of that member of
the clergy.
      (5)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of the actor’s duties in connection with a bona fide
program of treatment or services for persons with drug dependencies or persons
in danger of drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a
hospital, clinic, person, agency, or community addiction services provider
whose alcohol and drug addiction services are certified pursuant to Ohio R.C.
5119.36.
      (6)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of the actor’s duties in connection with a bona fide
program for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are
violations of Ohio R.C. 2907.02 or 2907.05 or to victims of felonious sexual
penetration in violation of former Ohio R.C. 2907.12. As used in this
subsection, “counseling services” include services provided in an informal
setting by a person who, by education or experience, is competent to provide
those services.
 
   (i)   No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to
any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.
   (j)   Whoever violates subsection (a), (b) or (f)(1) of this section is
guilty of failure to report a crime. Violation of subsection (a)(1) or (f)(1)
of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Violation of subsection
(a)(2) or (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (k)   Whoever violates subsection (c) or (d) of this section is guilty of
failure to report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (l)   (1)   Whoever negligently violates subsection (e) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever knowingly violates subsection (e) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (m)   As used in this section, “nurse” includes an advanced practice
registered nurse, registered nurse, and licensed practical nurse. (ORC 2921.22)
525.06 FAILURE TO AID A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (a)   No person shall negligently fail or refuse to aid a law enforcement
officer, when called upon for assistance in preventing or halting the
commission of an offense, or in apprehending or detaining an offender, when
such aid can be given without a substantial risk of physical harm to the person
giving it.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to aid a law
enforcement officer, a minor misdemeanor. (ORC 2921.23)
525.07 OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so and with purpose to prevent,
obstruct or delay the performance by a public official of any authorized act
within the public official’s official capacity, shall do any act that hampers
or impedes a public official in the performance of the public official’s lawful
duties.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing official
business. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection (b), obstructing
official business is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If a violation of this
section creates a risk of physical harm to any person, obstructing official
business is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
(ORC 2921.31)
525.08 OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension,
prosecution, conviction, or punishment of another for a misdemeanor, or to
assist another to benefit from the commission of a misdemeanor, and no person,
with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension, prosecution, adjudication
as a delinquent child, or disposition of a child for an act that if committed
by an adult would be a misdemeanor or to assist a child to benefit from the
commission of an act that if committed by an adult would be a misdemeanor,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Harbor or conceal the other person or child;
      (2)   Provide the other person or child with money, transportation, a
weapon, a disguise, or other means of avoiding discovery or apprehension;
      (3)   Warn the other person or child of impending discovery or
apprehension;
      (4)   Destroy or conceal physical evidence of the misdemeanor, or act, or
induce any person to withhold testimony or information or to elude legal
process summoning the person to testify or supply evidence;
      (5)   Communicate false information to any person.
      (6)   Prevent or obstruct any person, by means of force, intimidation, or
deception, from performing any act to aid in the discovery, apprehension, or
prosecution of the other person or child.
   (b)   A person may be prosecuted for, and may be convicted of or adjudicated
a delinquent child for committing, a violation of subsection (a) hereof,
regardless of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for,
is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to, or is adjudicated a
delinquent child for committing the crime or act the person or child aided
committed. The crime or act the person or child aided committed shall be used
under subsection (c) hereof in determining the penalty for the violation of
subsection (a) hereof, regardless of whether the person or child aided
ultimately is apprehended for, is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or is adjudicated a delinquent child for committing the crime or act the
person or child aided committed.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing justice.
      (2)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a misdemeanor or if
the act committed by the child aided would be a misdemeanor if committed by an
adult, obstructing justice is a misdemeanor of the same degree as the
misdemeanor committed by the person aided or a misdemeanor of the same degree
that the act committed by the child aided would be if committed by an adult.
   (d)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Adult” and “child” have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C.
2151.011.
      (2)   “Delinquent child” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2152.02.
         (ORC 2921.32)
525.09 RESISTING ARREST.
   (a)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another.
   (b)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A
violation of subsection (a) hereof is a misdemeanor of the second degree. A
violation of subsection (b) hereof is a misdemeanor of the first degree. (ORC
2921.33)
525.10 HAVING AN UNLAWFUL INTEREST IN A PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   (a)   No public official shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   During the public official’s term of office or within one year
thereafter, occupy any position of profit in the prosecution of a public
contract authorized by the public official or by a legislative body, commission
or board of which the public official was a member at the time of authorization
unless the contract was let by competitive bidding, to the lowest and best
bidder;
      (2)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
entered into by or for the use of the Municipality or governmental agency or
instrumentality with which the public official is connected;
      (3)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
that is not let by competitive bidding if required by law, and that involves
more than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
   (b)   In the absence of bribery or a purpose to defraud, a public official,
member of a public official’s family or any of a public official’s business
associates shall not be considered as having an interest in a public contract
if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The interest of that person is limited to owning or controlling
shares of the corporation, or being a creditor of the corporation or other
organization that is the contractor on the public contract involved, or that is
the issuer of the security in which public funds are invested;
      (2)   The shares owned or controlled by that person do not exceed five
percent (5%) of the outstanding shares of the corporation, and the amount due
that person as creditor does not exceed five percent (5%) of the total
indebtedness of the corporation or other organization;
      (3)   That person, prior to the time the public contract is entered into,
files with the Municipality or governmental agency or instrumentality involved,
an affidavit giving that person’s exact status in connection with the
corporation or other organization.
   (c)   This section does not apply to a public contract in which a public
official, member of a public official’s family, or one of a public official’s
business associates, has an interest, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The subject of the public contract is necessary supplies or
services for the Municipality or governmental agency or instrumentality
involved;
      (2)   The supplies or services are unobtainable elsewhere for the same or
lower cost, or are being furnished to the Municipality or governmental agency
or instrumentality as part of a continuing course of dealing established prior
to the public official's becoming associated with the Municipality or
governmental agency or instrumentality involved;
      (3)   The treatment accorded the Municipality or governmental agency or
instrumentality is either preferential to or the same as that accorded other
customers or clients in similar transactions;
      (4)   The entire transaction is conducted at arm's length, with full
knowledge by the Municipality or governmental agency or instrumentality
involved, of the interest of the public official, member of the public
official’s family or business associate, and the public official takes no part
in the deliberations or decisions of the Municipality or governmental agency or
instrumentality with respect to the public contract.
   (d)   Subsection (a)(4) does not prohibit participation by a public employee
in any housing program funded by public moneys if the public employee otherwise
qualifies for the program and does not use the authority or influence of the
public employee’s office or employment to secure benefits from the program and
if the moneys are to be used on the primary residence of the public employee.
Such participation does not constitute an unlawful interest in a public
contract in violation of this section.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having an unlawful interest
in a public contract. Violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
   (f)   It is not a violation of this section for a prosecuting attorney to
appoint assistants and employees in accordance with Ohio R.C. 309.06 and
2921.421, or for a chief legal officer of a municipal corporation or an
official designated as prosecutor in a municipal corporation to appoint
assistants and employees in accordance with Ohio R.C. 733.621 and 2921.421.
   (g)   Any public contract in which a public official, a member of the public
official’s family, or any of the public official’s business associates has an
interest in violation of this section is void and unenforceable. Any contract
securing the investment of public funds in which a public official, a member of
the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any brokerage,
origination, or servicing fees and that was entered into in violation of this
section is void and unenforceable.
   (h)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Public contract" means any of the following:
         A.   The purchase or acquisition, or a contract for the purchase or
acquisition of property or services by or for the use of the State, any of its
political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either, including
the employment of an individual by the State, any of its political
subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either.
         B.   A contract for the design, construction, alteration, repair or
maintenance of any public property.
      (2)   "Chief legal officer" has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 733.621.
(ORC 2921.42)
525.11 SOLICITING OR RECEIVING IMPROPER COMPENSATION.
   (a)   No public servant shall knowingly solicit or accept and no person
shall knowingly promise or give to a public servant either of the following:
      (1)   Any compensation, other than is allowed by Ohio R.C. 102.03(G),
(H), and (I) or other provisions of law, to perform the public servant’s
official duties, to perform any other act or service in the public servant's
public capacity, for the general performance of the duties of the public
servant's public office or public employment, or as a supplement to the public
servant's public compensation;
      (2)   Additional or greater fees or costs than are allowed by law to
perform the public servant’s official duties.
   (b)   No public servant for the public servant’s own personal or business
use and no person for the person’s own personal or business use or for the
personal or business use of a public servant or party official, shall solicit
or accept anything of value in consideration of either of the following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment or agency;
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion or other
material aspects of employment.
   (c)   No person for the benefit of a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity shall coerce any contribution in consideration of either of the
following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment or agency;
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion or other
material aspects of employment.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of soliciting improper
compensation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (e)   A public servant who is convicted of a violation of this section is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment or position of trust in
this Municipality for a period of seven years from the date of conviction.
   (f)   Subsections (a), (b) and (c) hereof do not prohibit a person from
making voluntary contributions to a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity or prohibit a political party, campaign committee, legislative campaign
fund, political action committee or political contributing entity from
accepting voluntary contributions. (ORC 2921.43)
525.12 DERELICTION OF DUTY.
   (a)   No law enforcement officer shall negligently do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to serve a lawful warrant without delay;
      (2)   Fail to prevent or halt the commission of an offense or to
apprehend an offender, when it is in the law enforcement officer’s power to do
so alone or with available assistance.
   (b)   No law enforcement, ministerial or judicial officer shall negligently
fail to perform a lawful duty in a criminal case or proceeding.
   (c)   No officer, having charge of a detention facility, shall negligently
do any of the following:
      (1)   Allow the detention facility to become littered or unsanitary;
      (2)   Fail to provide persons confined in the detention facility with
adequate food, clothing, bedding, shelter and medical attention;
      (3)   Fail to control an unruly prisoner, or to prevent intimidation of
or physical harm to a prisoner by another;
      (4)   Allow a prisoner to escape;
      (5)   Fail to observe any lawful and reasonable regulation for the
management of the detention facility.
   (d)   No public official of the Municipality shall recklessly create a
deficiency, incur a liability or expend a greater sum than is appropriated by
the legislative authority of the Municipality for the use in any one year of
the department, agency or institution with which the public official is
connected.
   (e)   No public servant shall recklessly fail to perform a duty expressly
imposed by law with respect to the public servant’s office, or recklessly do
any act expressly forbidden by law with respect to the public servant’s office.
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of dereliction of duty, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (g)   As used in this section, “public servant” includes an officer or
employee of a contractor as defined in Ohio R.C. 9.08.
525.13 INTERFERING WITH CIVIL RIGHTS.
   (a)    No public servant, under color of the public servant’s office,
employment, or authority, shall knowingly deprive, or conspire or attempt to
deprive any person of a constitutional or statutory right.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interfering with civil
rights, a misdemeanor of the first degree. (ORC 2921.45)
525.14 UNAUTHORIZED DISPLAY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT EMBLEMS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (a)   No person who is not entitled to do so shall knowingly display on a
motor vehicle the emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law
enforcement officers.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of the unlawful display of the
emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law enforcement
officers, a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 2913.441)
525.15 ASSAULTING POLICE DOG OR HORSE OR AN ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
a police dog or horse in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in
the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical harm
is caused or attempted.
      (2)   The police dog or horse is not assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical
harm is caused or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog
or horse is a police dog or horse.
   (b)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike a police dog or horse;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at a police dog or horse;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct a police dog or horse, or interfere with
or obstruct a law enforcement officer who is being assisted by a police dog or
horse, in a manner that does any of the following:
         A.   Inhibits or restricts the law enforcement officer’s control of
the police dog or horse;
         B.   Deprives the law enforcement officer of control of the police dog
or horse;
         C.   Releases the police dog or horse from its area of control;
         D.   Enters the area of control of the police dog or horse without the
consent of the law enforcement officer, including placing food or any other
object or substance into that area;
         E.   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the police dog or horse to
assist a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to a police dog or horse.
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger a police dog or horse that at the time of the conduct, the
police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in the performance
of the officer’s duties or that the person knows is a police dog or horse.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
an assistance dog in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The dog, at the time the physical harm is caused or attempted, is
assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment.
      (2)   The dog, at the time the physical harm is caused or attempted, is
not assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment, but the offender has actual knowledge that
the dog is an assistance dog.
   (d)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike an assistance dog;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at an assistance dog;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct an assistance dog, or interfere with or
obstruct a person who is blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or a person with a
mobility impairment who is being assisted or served by an assistance dog, in a
manner that does any of the following:
         A.   Inhibits or restricts the assisted or served person’s control of
the dog;
         B.   Deprives the assisted or served person of control of the dog;
         C.   Releases the dog from its area of control;
         D.   Enters the area of control of the dog without the consent of the
assisted or served person, including placing food or any other object or
substance into that area;
         E.   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the dog to assist the
assisted or served person.
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to an assistance dog;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger an assistance dog that at the time of the conduct is
assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or a
person with a mobility impairment or that the person knows is an assistance
dog.
   (e)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (a) hereof is guilty of assaulting a
police dog or horse. If the violation results in physical harm to the police
dog or horse, assaulting a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the violation does not result in death, serious physical harm, or
physical harm to the police dog or horse, assaulting a police dog or horse is a
misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation results in death or serious
physical harm to the police dog or horse, such violation is a felony and shall
be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (2)   Whoever violates subsection (b) hereof is guilty of harassing a
police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, harassing
a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation
results in the death of the police dog or horse or if the violation results in
serious physical harm to the police dog or horse but does not result in its
death, harassing a police dog or horse is a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate State law. If the violation results in physical harm to the
police dog or horse but does not result in its death or in serious physical
harm to it, harassing a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates subsection (c) hereof is guilty of assaulting an
assistance dog. If the violation results in physical harm to the dog other than
death or serious physical harm, assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the violation does not result in death, serious
physical harm, or physical harm to the dog, assaulting an assistance dog is a
misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation results in death or serious
physical harm to the dog, such violation is a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate State law.
      (4)   Whoever violates subsection (d) of this section is guilty of
harassing an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection,
harassing an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in the death of or serious physical harm to the assistance
dog but does not result in its death, harassing an assistance dog is a felony
and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law. If the violation results
in physical harm to the assistance dog but does not result in its death or in
serious physical harm to it, harassing an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (5)   In addition to any other sanction or penalty imposed for the
offense under this section, whoever violates subsection (a), (b), (c) or (d) of
this section is responsible for the payment of all of the following:
         A.   Any veterinary bill or bill for medication incurred as a result
of the violation by the Police Department regarding a violation of subsection
(a) or (b) of this section or by the person who is blind, deaf or hearing
impaired, or the person with a mobility impairment assisted or served by the
assistance dog regarding a violation of subsection (c) or (d) of this section;
         B.   The cost of any damaged equipment that results from the
violation;
         C.   If the violation did not result in the death of the police dog or
horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation and if, as a
result of that dog or horse being the subject of the violation, the dog or
horse needs further training or retraining to be able to continue in the
capacity of a police dog or horse or an assistance dog, the cost of any further
training or retraining of that dog or horse by a law enforcement officer or by
the person who is blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or the person with a
mobility impairment assisted or served by the assistance dog;
         D.   If the violation resulted in the death of the assistance dog that
was the subject of the violation or resulted in serious physical harm to the
police dog or horse or the assistance dog or horse that was the subject of the
violation to the extent that the dog or horse needs to be replaced on either a
temporary or a permanent basis, the cost of replacing that dog or horse and of
any further training of a new police dog or horse or a new assistance dog by a
law enforcement officer or by the person who is blind, deaf or hearing
impaired, or the person with a mobility impairment assisted or served by the
assistance dog, which replacement or training is required because of the death
of or the serious physical harm to the dog or horse that was the subject of the
violation.
   (f)   This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian whose conduct
is in accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (g)   This section only applies to an offender who knows or should know at
the time of the violation that the police dog or horse or assistance dog that
is the subject of a violation under this section is a police dog or horse or
assistance dog.
   (h)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Assistance dog”, "blind", and "person with a mobility impairment"
have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 955.011.
      (2)   "Physical harm" means any injury, illness, or other physiological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
      (3)   "Police dog or horse" means a dog or horse that has been trained,
and may be used, to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their
official duties.
      (4)   "Serious physical harm" means any of the following:
         A.   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
         B.   Any physical harm that causes permanent maiming or that involves
some temporary, substantial maiming;
         C.   Any physical harm that causes acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering.
            (ORC 2921.321)
525.16 FAILURE TO ANSWER SUMMONS.
   If a person summoned to appear as provided in ORC 2935.10(B) fails to appear
without just cause and personal service of the summons was had upon him, he is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor. Upon failure to appear, the court or magistrate
may without delay issue a warrant for his arrest. (ORC 2935.11)
525.17 FALSE ALLEGATION OF PEACE OFFICER MISCONDUCT.
   (a)   As used in this section, “peace officer” has the same meaning as in
Ohio R.C. 2935.01.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly file a complaint against a peace officer
that alleges that the peace officer engaged in misconduct in the performance of
the officer’s duties if the person knows that the allegation is false.
 
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making a false allegation
of peace officer misconduct, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 2921.15)
525.18 REFUSAL TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION IN PUBLIC PLACE.
   (a)   No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the
person’s name, address, or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement
officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:
      (1)   The person is committing, has committed, or is about to commit a
criminal offense.
      (2)   The person witnessed any of the following:
         A.   An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the
laws of this State;
         B.   A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a
substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or to property;
         C.   Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in committing,
any offense identified in subsection (a)(2)A. or B. of this section;
         D.   Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in
subsection (a)(2)A. or B. of this section or any attempt, conspiracy, or
complicity described in subsection (a)(2)C. of this section has been, is being,
or is about to be committed.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disclose one’s
personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
 
   (c)   Nothing in this section requires a person to answer any questions
beyond that person’s name, address, or date of birth. Nothing in this section
authorizes a law enforcement officer to arrest a person for not providing any
information beyond that person’s name, address, or date of birth or for
refusing to describe the offense observed.
 
   (d)   It is not a violation of this section to refuse to answer a question
that would reveal a person’s age or date of birth if age is an element of the
crime that the person is suspected of committing. (ORC 2921.29)
525.99 PENALTY.
   (EDITOR'S NOTE: See Section
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.)
CHAPTER 529
Liquor Control
529.01   Definitions.
529.02   Sales to and use by underage persons; securing public accommodations.
529.021   Purchase by minor; misrepresentation.
529.03   Sales to intoxicated persons.
529.04   Liquor consumption in motor vehicle.
529.05   Permit required.
529.06   Low-alcohol beverages: sale to and purchase by underage persons
prohibited.
529.07   Open container prohibited.
529.08   Hours of sale or consumption.
529.09   Allowing violations by minors.
529.10   Allowing minors on property while possessing, using beer or liquor.
529.99   Penalty.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
See sectional histories for similar State law
Prohibiting sale of intoxicating liquor on Sunday - see Ohio R.C. 4301.22(D)
Local option - see Ohio R.C. 4301.32 et seq., 4303.29
Disorderly conduct; intoxication - see GEN. OFF.
509.03
Using weapons while intoxicated - see GEN. OFF.
549.03
 
 
529.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   “Alcohol”. Ethyl alcohol, whether rectified or diluted with water or
not, whatever its origin may be, and includes synthetic ethyl alcohol. The term
does not include denatured alcohol and wood alcohol.
   (b)   “At Retail”. For use or consumption by the purchaser and not for
resale.
   (c)   “Beer”.
      (1)    Includes all beverages brewed or fermented wholly or in part from
malt products and containing one-half of one percent (0.5%) or more of alcohol
by volume.
      (2)    Beer, regardless of the percent of alcohol by volume, is not
intoxicating liquor for purposes of this code, the Ohio Revised Code, or any
rules adopted under it.
   (d)   “Cider”. All liquids that are fit to use for beverage purposes that
contain one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume, but not more than
six percent (6%) of alcohol by weight that are made through the normal
alcoholic fermentation of the juice of sound, ripe apples, including, without
limitation, flavored, sparkling, or carbonated cider and cider made from pure
condensed apple must.
   (e)   “Club”. A corporation or association of individuals organized in good
faith for social, recreational, benevolent, charitable, fraternal, political,
patriotic, or athletic purposes, which is the owner, lessor, or occupant of a
permanent building or part of a permanent building operated solely for such
purposes, membership in which entails the prepayment of regular dues, and
includes the place so operated.
   (f)   “Community Facility”. Means either of the following:
      (1)   Any convention, sports or entertainment facility or complex, or any
combination of these, that is used by or accessible to the general public and
that is owned or operated in whole or in part by the state, a state agency, or
a political subdivision of the state or that is leased from, or located on
property owned by or leased from, the state, a state agency, a political
subdivision of the state, or a convention facilities authority created pursuant
to Ohio R.C. 351.02;
      (2)   An area designated as a community entertainment district pursuant
to Ohio R.C. 4301.80.
   (g)   “Controlled Access Alcohol and Beverage Cabinet”. A closed container,
either refrigerated, in whole or in part, or nonrefrigerated, access to the
interior of which is restricted by means of a device that requires the use of a
key, magnetic card, or similar device and from which beer, intoxicating liquor,
other beverages or food may be sold.
   (h)   “Hotel”. The same meaning as in Oho R.C. 3731.01, subject to the
exceptions mentioned in Ohio R.C. 3731.03.
   (i)   “Intoxicating Liquor” and “Liquor”. All liquids and compounds, other
than beer, containing one half of one percent (0.5%) or more of alcohol by
volume which are fit to use for beverage purposes, from whatever source and by
whatever process produced, by whatever name called, and whether they are
medicated, proprietary, or patented. The terms include cider and alcohol, and
all solids and confections which contain one-half of one percent (0.5%) or more
of alcohol by volume.
   (j)   “Low-Alcohol Beverage”. Any brewed or fermented malt product or any
product made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products that contains either no alcohol or less than one-half of one percent
(0.5%) of alcohol by volume. The beverages described in this definition do not
include a soft drink such as root beer, birch beer, or ginger beer.
   (k)   “Manufacture”. All processes by which beer or intoxicating liquor is
produced, whether by distillation, rectifying, fortifying, blending,
fermentation, brewing, or in any other manner.
   (l)   “Manufacturer”. Any person engaged in the business of manufacturing
beer or intoxicating liquor.
   (m)   “Mixed Beverages”. Include bottled and prepared cordials, cocktails,
highballs, and solids and confections that are obtained by mixing any type of
whiskey, neutral spirits, brandy, gin or other distilled spirits with, or over,
carbonated or plain water, pure juices from flowers and plants, and other
flavoring materials. The completed product shall contain not less than one-half
of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume and not more than twenty-one percent
(21%) of alcohol by volume. The phrase includes the contents of a pod.
   (n)   “Nightclub”. A place habitually operated for profit, where food is
served for consumption on the premises, and one or more forms of amusement are
provided or permitted for a consideration that may be in the form of a cover
charge or may be included in the price of the food and beverages, or both,
purchased by patrons.
   (o)   “Person”. Includes firms and corporations.
   (p)   “Pharmacy”. An establishment as defined in Ohio R.C. 4729.01, that is
under the management or control of a licensed pharmacist in accordance with
Ohio R.C. 4729.27.
   (q)   “POD”. Means a sealed capsule made from plastic, glass, aluminum, or a
combination thereof to which all of the following apply:
      (1)    The capsule contains intoxicating liquor of more than twenty-one
percent (21%) of alcohol by volume.
      (2)    The capsule also contains a concentrated flavoring mixture.
      (3)    The contents of the capsule are not readily accessible or intended
for consumption unless certain manufacturer’s processing instructions are
followed.
      (4)    The instructions include releasing the contents of the capsule
through a machine specifically designed to process the contents.
      (5)    After being properly processed according to the manufacturer’s
instructions, the final product produced from the capsule contains not less
than one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume and not more than
twenty-one percent (21%) of alcohol by volume.
   (r)   “Restaurant”. A place located in a permanent building provided with
space and accommodations wherein, in consideration of the payment of money, hot
meals are habitually prepared, sold, and served at noon and evening, as the
principal business of the place. The term does not include pharmacies,
confectionery stores, lunch stands, nightclubs, and filling stations.
   (s)   “Sale” and “Sell”. The exchange, barter, gift, offer for sale, sale,
distribution, and delivery of any kind, and the transfer of title or possession
of beer and intoxicating liquor either by constructive or actual delivery by
any means or devices whatever, including the sale of beer or intoxicating
liquor by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 4301.21. Such terms do not include the mere solicitation of orders
for beer or intoxicating liquor from the holders of permits issued by the
Division of Liquor Control authorizing the sale of the beer or intoxicating
liquor, but no solicitor shall solicit any orders until the solicitor has been
registered with the Division pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4303.25.
   (t)   “Sales Area or Territory”. An exclusive geographic area or territory
that is assigned to a particular A or B permit holder and that either has one
or more political subdivisions as its boundaries or consists of an area of land
with readily identifiable geographic boundaries. The term does not include,
however, any particular retail location in an exclusive geographic area or
territory that had been assigned to another A or B permit holder before April
9, 2001.
   (u)   “Sealed Container”. Any container having a capacity of not more than
128 fluid ounces, the opening of which is closed to prevent the entrance of
air.
   (v)   “Spirituous Liquor”. All intoxicating liquors containing more than
twenty-one percent (21%) of alcohol by volume. The phrase does not include the
contents of a pod.
   (w)   “Vehicle”. All means of transportation by land, by water, or by air,
and everything made use of in any way for such transportation.
   (x)   “Wholesale Distributor” and “Distributor”. A person engaged in the
business of selling to retail dealers for purposes of resale.
   (y)   “Wine”. All liquids fit to use for beverage purposes containing not
less than one- half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume and not more
than twenty-one percent (21%) of alcohol by volume, that is made from the
fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural products. The term
includes cider, except as used in Ohio R.C. 4301.13, 4301.421, 4301.422,
4301.432, and 4301.44, and, for purposes of determining the rate of the tax
that applies, Ohio R.C. 4301.43(B), the term does not include cider.
      (ORC 4301.01, 4301.244)
529.02 SALES TO AND USE BY UNDERAGE PERSONS; SECURING PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter
4301, no person shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor to an underage person,
or shall buy beer or intoxicating liquor for an underage person, or shall
furnish it to, an underage person, unless given by a physician in the regular
line of his practice or given for established religious purposes, or unless the
underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse who is not an underage person
or legal guardian.
   In proceedings before the Liquor Control Commission, no permit holder, or no
employee or agent of a permit holder, charged with a violation of this
subsection shall be charged, for the same offense, with a violation of Ohio
R.C. 4301.22(A)(1).
   (b)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private place
shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place while
possessing or consuming beer or intoxicating liquor, unless the intoxicating
liquor or beer is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that
person's parent, spouse who is not an underage person or legal guardian and the
parent, spouse who is not an underage person or legal guardian is present at
the time of the person's possession or consumption of the beer or intoxicating
liquor.
   An owner of a public or private place is not liable for acts or omissions in
violation of this subsection that are committed by a lessee of that place,
unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee's acts or omissions.
   (c)   No person shall engage or use accommodations at a hotel, inn, cabin,
campground or restaurant when he knows or has reason to know either of the
following:
      (1)   That beer or intoxicating liquor will be consumed by an underage
person on the premises of the accommodations that the person engages or uses,
unless the person engaging or using the accommodations is the spouse of the
underage person and is not an underage person, or is the parent or legal
guardian of all of the underage persons, who consume beer or intoxicating
liquor on the premises and that person is on the premises at all times when
beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by an underage person;
      (2)   That a drug of abuse will be consumed on the premises of the
accommodations by any person, except a person who obtained the drug of abuse
pursuant to a prescription issued by a practitioner and has the drug of abuse
in the original container in which it was dispensed to the person.
   (d)   (1)   No person is required to permit the engagement of accommodations
at any hotel, inn, cabin or campground by an underage person or for an underage
person, if the person engaging the accommodations knows or has reason to know
that the underage person is intoxicated, or that the underage person possesses
any beer or intoxicating liquor and is not supervised by a parent, spouse who
is not an underage person or legal guardian who is or will be present at all
times when the beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by the underage
person.
      (2)   No underage person shall knowingly engage or attempt to engage
accommodations at any hotel, inn, cabin or campground by presenting
identification that falsely indicates that the underage person is twenty-one
years of age or older for the purpose of violating this section.
   (e)   No underage person shall knowingly order, pay for, share the cost of,
attempt to purchase, possess, or consume any beer or intoxicating liquor, in
any public or private place. No underage person shall knowingly be under the
influence of any beer or intoxicating liquor in any public place. The
prohibitions set forth in this subsection (e) hereof against an underage person
knowingly possessing, consuming, or being under the influence of any beer or
intoxicating liquor shall not apply if the underage person is supervised by a
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or the beer or
intoxicating liquor is given by a physician in the regular line of the
physician’s practice or given for established religious purposes.
   (f)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person or legal guardian of a
minor shall knowingly permit the minor to violate this section or Section
529.021(a) to (c).
   (g)   The operator of any hotel, inn, cabin or campground shall make the
provisions of this section available in writing to any person engaging or using
accommodations at the hotel, inn, cabin or campground.
   (h)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Drug of abuse" has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 3719.011.
      (2)   "Hotel" has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 3731.01.
      (3)   “Licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs” and
“prescription” have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 4729.01.
      (4)   “Minor” means a person under the age of eighteen years.
      (5)   "Underage person" means a person under the age of twenty-one years.
         (ORC 4301.69)
   (i)    (1)    Whoever violates subsection (a) hereof is guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and
not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000), and, in addition to the fine, may
be imprisoned for a definite term of not more than six months. (ORC 4301.99(I))
      (2)    Whoever violates subsections (b), (c), (d) or (f) hereof is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree. (ORC 4301.99(C))
      (3)    Whoever violates subsection (e) hereof is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the third degree. (ORC 4301.99(D))
529.021 PURCHASE BY MINOR; MISREPRESENTATION.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter
4301, no person under the age of twenty-one years shall purchase beer or
intoxicating liquor. (ORC 4301.63)
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter
4301, no person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the name,
age or other identification of any person under twenty-one years of age for the
purpose of obtaining or with the intent to obtain, beer or intoxicating liquor
for a person under twenty-one years of age, by purchase, or as a gift.
(ORC 4301.633)
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter
4301, no person under the age of twenty-one years shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning the person’s name, age or other identification for
the purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining beer or intoxicating liquor in
any place where beer or intoxicating liquor is sold under a permit issued by
the Division of Liquor Control or sold by the Division of Liquor Control.
(ORC 4301.634)
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this section for which no
other penalty is provided is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates subsection (a) hereof, shall be fined not less
than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
The court imposing a fine for a violation of subsection (a) hereof may order
that the fine be paid by the performance of public work at a reasonable hourly
rate established by the court. The court shall designate the time within which
the public work shall be completed.
      (3)   A.   Whoever violates subsection (c) hereof is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If, in committing a first violation of that
subsection, the offender presented to the permit holder or the permit holder’s
employee or agent a false, fictitious or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver's license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver's
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) and not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000) and may
be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months.
         B.   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the offender
presented to the permit holder or the permit holder’s employee or agent a
false, fictitious or altered identification card, a false or fictitious
driver's license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver's license issued
by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree and shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars
($500.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000), and may be sentenced to
a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. The court also may impose a
class seven suspension of the offender's driver's or commercial driver's
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified
in Ohio R.C. 4510.02(A)(7).
         C.   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to the permit holder or the permit
holder’s employee or agent a false, fictitious or altered identification card,
a false or fictitious driver's license purportedly issued by any state, or a
driver's license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000), and
may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. Except
as provided in this subsection, the court also may impose a class six
suspension of the offender's driver's or commercial driver's license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in Ohio R.C.
4510.02(A)(6), and the court may order that the suspension or denial remain in
effect until the offender attains the age of twenty-one years. The court, in
lieu of suspending the offenders temporary instruction permit, probationary
driver’s license or driver’s license, instead may order the offender to perform
a determinate number of hours of community service, with the court determining
the actual number of hours and the nature of the community service the offender
shall perform. (ORC 4301.99)
529.03 SALES TO INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   (a)    No permit holder and no agent or employee of a permit holder shall
sell or furnish beer or intoxicating liquor to an intoxicated person.
(ORC 4301.22)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(ORC 4301.99)
529.04 LIQUOR CONSUMPTION IN MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   No person shall consume any beer or intoxicating liquor in a motor
vehicle. This section does not apply to persons described in Section
529.07(d). (ORC 4301.64)
   (b)   Whoever violates subsection (a) hereof is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (c)   If an offender who violates this section was under the age of eighteen
years at the time of the offense, the court, in addition to any other penalties
it imposes upon the offender, shall suspend the offender’s temporary
instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or driver’s license for a
period of not less than six months and not more than one year. In lieu of
suspending the offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s
license or driver’s license, the court may instead require the offender to
perform community service for a number of hours to be determined by the court.
If the offender is fifteen years and six months of age or older and has not
been issued a temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s license,
the offender shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or permit for a
period of six months. If the offender has not attained the age of fifteen years
and six months, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a temporary
instruction permit until the offender attains the age of sixteen years. (ORC
4301.99)
529.05 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (a)   No person personally or by the person’s clerk, agent or employee shall
manufacture, manufacture for sale, offer, keep or possess for sale, furnish or
sell, or solicit the purchase or sale of any beer or intoxicating liquor in
this Municipality, or transport, import or cause to be transported or imported
any beer, intoxicating liquor or alcohol on or into this Municipality for
delivery, use or sale, unless the person has fully complied with Ohio R.C.
Chapters 4301 and 4303 or is the holder of a permit issued by the Division of
Liquor Control and in force at the time. (ORC 4303.25)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
529.06 LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGES: SALE TO AND PURCHASE BY UNDERAGE PERSONS
PROHIBITED.
   (a)   As used in this section, "underage person" means a person under
eighteen years of age.
   (b)   No underage person shall purchase any low-alcohol beverage.
   (c)   No underage person shall order, pay for, share the cost of, or attempt
to purchase any low-alcohol beverage.
   (d)   No person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the
name, age, or other identification of any underage person for the purpose of
obtaining or with the intent to obtain any low-alcohol beverage for an underage
person, by purchase or as a gift.
   (e)   No underage person shall knowingly show or give false information
concerning the person’s name, age, or other identification for the purpose of
purchasing or otherwise obtaining any low-alcohol beverage in any place in this
Municipality.
   (f)   No person shall sell or furnish any low-alcohol beverage to, or buy
any low-alcohol beverage for, an underage person, unless given by a physician
in the regular line of his practice or given for established religious
purposes, or unless the underage person is accompanied by a parent, spouse who
is not an underage person, or legal guardian.
   (g)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private place
shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place while
possessing or consuming any low-alcohol beverage, unless the low-alcohol
beverage is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that person's
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, and the
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present when
the person possesses or consumes the low-alcohol beverage.
   An owner of a public or private place is not liable for acts or omissions in
violation of this division that are committed by a lessee of that place, unless
the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee's acts or omissions.
   (h)   No underage person shall knowingly possess or consume any low-alcohol
beverage in any public or private place, unless accompanied by a parent, spouse
who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or unless the low-alcohol
beverage is given by a physician in the regular line of the physician’s
practice or given for established religious purposes.
   (i)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
an underage person shall knowingly permit the underage person to violate this
section.
(ORC 4301.631)
   (j)   Whoever violates any provision of this section for which no other
penalty is provided is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (k)   Whoever violates subsection (b) hereof shall be fined not less than
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00). The
court imposing a fine for a violation of subsection (b) hereof may order that
the fine be paid by the performance of public work at a reasonable hourly rate
established by the court. The court shall designate the time within which the
public work shall be completed. (ORC 4301.99)
529.07 OPEN CONTAINER PROHIBITED.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Chauffeured limousine” means a vehicle registered under Ohio R.C.
4503.24.
      (2)   "Street," "highway" and "motor vehicle" have the same meanings as
in Ohio R.C. 4511.01.
   (b)   No person shall have in the person’s possession an opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Except as provided in subsection (c)(1)E. hereof, in an agency
store;
      (2)   Except as provided in subsection (c) or (i) hereof, on the premises
of the holder of any permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control;
      (3)   In any other public place;
      (4)   Except as provided in subsection (d) or (e) hereof, while operating
or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on any street, highway or other
public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking;
      (5)   Except as provided in subsection (d) or (e) hereof, while being in
or on a stationary motor vehicle on any street, highway or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (c)   (1)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened container
of any of the following:
         A.   Beer or intoxicating liquor that has been lawfully purchased for
consumption on the premises where bought from the holder of an A-1-A, A-2, A-2
(f), A-3a, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-3a, D-4, D-4a, D-5, D-5a, D-5b, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e,
D-5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D- 5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-7, D-8, D-9, E,
F, F-2, F-5, F-7, F-8 or F-9 permit;
         B.   Beer, wine, or mixed beverages served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-3 permit, wine served as a tasting sample by an
A-2, A-2f, S-1, or S-2 permit holder for consumption on the premises of a
farmers market for which an F-10 permit has been issued, or wine served for
consumption on the premises by the holder of an F-4 or F-6 permit;
         C.   Beer or intoxicating liquor consumed on the premises of a
convention facility as provided in Ohio R.C. 4303.201;
         D.   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed during tastings and
samplings approved by rule of the Liquor Control Commission.
         E.   Spirituous liquor to be consumed for purposes of a tasting
sample, as defined in Ohio R.C. 4301.171.
         F.   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed in an outdoor area
described in Ohio R.C. 4303.188(B)(1).
      (2)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F liquor permit
premises an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor that was not
purchased from the holder of the F permit if the premises for which the F
permit is issued is a music festival and the holder of the F permit grants
permission for that possession on the premises during the period for which the
F permit is issued. As used in this section, “music festival” means a series of
outdoor live musical performances, extending for a period of at least three
consecutive days and located on an area of land of at least forty acres.
      (3)   A.   A person may have in the person’s possession on a D-2 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of wine that was not purchased
from the holder of the D-2 permit if the premises for which the D-2 permit is
issued is an outdoor performing arts center, the person is attending an
orchestral performance, and the holder of the D-2 permit grants permission for
the possession and consumption of wine in certain predesignated areas of the
premises during the period for which the D-2 permit is issued.
         B.   As used in subsection (c)(3)A. of this section:
            1.   “Orchestral performance” means a concert comprised of a group
of not fewer than forty musicians playing various musical instruments.
            2.   “Outdoor performing arts center” means an outdoor performing
arts center that is located on not less than one hundred fifty acres of land
and that is open for performances from the first day of April to the last day
of October of each year.
      (4)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened or unopened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location at which the
person is attending an orchestral performance as defined in subsection (c)
(3)B.1. hereof if the person with supervision and control over the performance
grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating
liquor in certain predesignated areas of that outdoor location.
      (5)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F-9 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
that was not purchased from the holder of the F-9 permit if the F-9 permit
holder grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or
intoxicating liquor in certain predesignated areas of the premises during the
period for which the F-9 permit is issued.
      (6)   A.   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of an outdoor motorsports facility an opened or unopened container of beer or
intoxicating liquor that was not purchased from the owner of the facility if
both of the following apply:
            1.   The person is attending a racing event at the facility; and
            2.   The owner of the facility grants permission for the possession
and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor on the property of the facility;
         B.   As used in subsection (c)(6)A. of this section:
            1.   “Racing event” means a motor vehicle racing event sanctioned
by one or more motor racing sanctioning organizations.
            2.   “Outdoor motorsports facility” means an outdoor racetrack to
which all of the following apply:
               a.   It is two and four-tenths miles or more in length.
               b.   It is located on two hundred acres or more of land.
               c.   The primary business of the owner of the facility is the
hosting and promoting of racing events.
               d.   The holder of a D-1, D-2 or D-3 permit is located on the
property of the facility.
      (7)   A.   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location within an
outdoor refreshment area created under Ohio R.C. 4301.82, if the opened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor was purchased from an A-1, A-1-A, A-
1c, A-2, A-2f, D class or F class permit holder to which both of the following
apply:
            1.   The permit holder’s premises is located within the outdoor
refreshment area.
            2.   The permit held by the permit holder has an outdoor
refreshment area designation.
         B.   Subsection (c)(7) of this section does not authorize a person to
do either of the following:
            1.   Enter the premises of an establishment within an outdoor
refreshment area while possessing an opened container of beer or intoxicating
liquor acquired elsewhere;
            2.   Possess an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
while being in or on a motor vehicle within an outdoor refreshment area, unless
the possession is otherwise authorized under subsection (d) or (e) of this
section.
         C.   As used in subsection (c)(7) of this section, “D class permit
holder” does not include a D-6 or D-8 permit holder.
      (8)   A.   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of a market, within a defined F-8 permit premises, an opened container of beer
or intoxicating liquor that was purchased from a D permit premises that is
located immediately adjacent to the market if both of the following apply:
            1.   The market grants permission for the possession and
consumption of beer and intoxicating liquor within the defined F-8 permit
premises;
            2.   The market is hosting an event pursuant to an F-8 permit and
the market has notified the Division of Liquor Control about the event in
accordance with division (A)(3) of Ohio R.C. 4303.208.
         B.   As used in subsection (c)(8) of this section, market means a
market, for which an F-8 permit is held, that has been in operation since 1860.
   (d)   This section does not apply to a person who pays all or a portion of
the fee imposed for the use of a chauffeured limousine pursuant to a
prearranged contract, or the guest of such a person, when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The person or guest is a passenger in the limousine;
      (2)   The person or guest is located in the limousine, but is not
occupying a seat in the front compartment of the limousine where the operator
of the limousine is located;
      (3)   The limousine is located on any street, highway, or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (e)   An opened bottle of wine that was purchased from the holder of a
permit that authorizes the sale of wine for consumption on the premises where
sold is not an opened container for the purposes of this section if both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The opened bottle of wine is securely resealed by the permit holder
or an employee of the permit holder before the bottle is removed from the
premises. The bottle shall be secured in such a manner that it is visibly
apparent if the bottle has been subsequently opened or tampered with.
      (2)   The opened bottle of wine that is resealed in accordance with
subsection (e)(1) of this section is stored in the trunk of a motor vehicle or,
if the motor vehicle does not have a trunk, behind the last upright seat or in
an area not normally occupied by the driver or passengers and not easily
accessible by the driver.
   (f)   (1)   Except if an ordinance or resolution is enacted or adopted under
subsection (f)(2) of this section, this section does not apply to a person who,
pursuant to a prearranged contract, is a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle when all of the following apply:
         A.   The person is not occupying a seat in the front of the commercial
quadricycle where the operator is steering or braking.
         B.   The commercial quadricycle is being operated on a street, highway
or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking.
         C.   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
an opened container of beer or wine.
         D.   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
not more than either thirty-six ounces of beer or eighteen ounces of wine.
      (2)   The legislative authority of a municipal corporation or township
may enact an ordinance or adopt a resolution, as applicable, that prohibits a
passenger riding on a commercial quadricycle from possessing an opened
container or beer or wine.
      (3)   As used in this section, “commercial quadricycle” means a vehicle
that has fully-operative pedals for propulsion entirely by human power and that
meets all of the following requirements:
         A.   It has four wheels and is operated in a manner similar to a
bicycle.
         B.   It has at least five seats for passengers.
         C.   It is designed to be powered by the pedaling of the operator and
the passengers.
         D.   It is used for commercial purposes.
         E.   It is operated by the vehicle owner or an employee of the owner.
   (g)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor on the premises
of a market if the beer or intoxicating liquor has been purchased from a D
liquor permit holder that is located in the market.
   As used in subsection (g) of this section, “market” means an establishment
that:
      (1)   Leases space in the market to individual vendors, not less than
fifty percent of which are retail food establishments or food service
operations licensed under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3717;
      (2)   Has an indoor sales floor area of not less than twenty-two thousand
square feet;
      (3)   Hosts a farmer’s market on each Saturday from April through
December.
         (ORC 4301.62)
   (h)   (1)   As used in this section, “alcoholic beverage” has the same
meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4303.185.
      (2)    An alcoholic beverage in a closed container being transported
under Ohio R.C. 4303.185 to its final destination is not an opened container
for the purposes of this section if the closed container is securely sealed in
such a manner that it is visibly apparent if the closed container has been
subsequently opened or tampered with after sealing.
         (ORC 4301.62)
   (i)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of homemade beer or wine that is served in
accordance with Ohio R.C. 4301.201(E). (ORC 4301.62)
   (j)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4301.99(A))
529.08 HOURS OF SALE OR CONSUMPTION.
   (a)   This rule shall apply to the retail sale of beer, wine, mixed
beverages, or spirituous liquor.
   (b)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor shall be sold or
delivered by an A-1, A-1c, A-2, B-1, B-2, B-4, B-5, C-1, C-2, C-2X, D-1, D-2,
D-2X, D-3 when issued without a D-3A, D-3X, D-4, D-5H, D-5K, D-8, F, F-1, F-2,
F-3, F-4, F-5, F-6, F-7, F-8, F-9, G or I permit holder:
      (1)   From Monday to Saturday between the hours of one a.m. and five
thirty a.m.
      (2)   On Sunday between the hours of one a.m. and Sunday midnight, unless
statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (3)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages,
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (c)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquid shall be sold or
delivered by an A-1A, D-3 when issued with a D-3A, D-4A, D-5, D-5A, D-5B, D-5C,
D-5D, D-5E, D-5F, D-5G, D-5I, D-5J, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, or D-7 permit
holder:
      (1)   From Monday to Saturday between the hours of two thirty a.m. and
five thirty a.m.
      (2)   On Sunday between the hours of two thirty a.m. and Sunday midnight,
unless statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (3)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (d)   Permit holders authorized to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages, or
spirituous liquor at retail who are not specifically identified in subsection
(b) or (c) above shall be subject to the provisions of subsection (b), unless
statutorily authorized otherwise.
 
   (e)   The hours on Sunday during which sales, delivery, or consumption of
alcoholic beverages may take place are established by statute, but in no event
shall they begin prior to five thirty a.m. (OAC 4301:1-1-49)
 
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
529.09 ALLOWING VIOLATIONS BY MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian of a minor:
   (a)   Knowingly to permit that minor child to violate any provision of this
chapter; or
   (b)   Negligently to allow that minor child to violate any provision of this
chapter. (Ord. 3439. Passed 8-6-84).
   (c)   Violation of subsection (a) of this section is a third degree
misdemeanor, except that violation of subsection (a) of
529.10 shall constitute a first degree misdemeanor. Violation of (b) of this
section is a fourth degree misdemeanor, except that violation of
529.10 is a third degree misdemeanor.
529.10 ALLOWING MINORS ON PROPERTY WHILE POSSESSING, USING BEER OR LIQUOR (KEG
ORDINANCE).
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any premises located
within the City to:
   (a)   Knowingly allow any person under the age of 21 years to remain in or
on that premises while that person is possessing or consuming either beer or
intoxicating liquor. Violation of this subsection (a) constitutes a first
degree misdemeanor. There is no offense, however, if that substance was given
to the person possessing or consuming it by that person's parent, legal
guardian or spouse who is not an underaged person, and if such parent, legal
guardian or spouse is present at the time of such possession or consumption; or
   (b)   Negligently allow any person under the age of twenty-one years to
remain in or on that premises while that person is possessing or consuming
intoxicating liquor or beer. Violation of this this subsection (b) constitutes
a third degree misdemeanor. There is no offense, however, if that substance was
given to the person possessing or consuming it by that person's parent, legal
guardian or spouse who is not an underaged person, and if such parent, legal
guardian or spouse is present at the time of such possession or consumption.
      (Ord. 3991. Passed 8-20-90.)
529.99 PENALTY.
   (EDITOR'S NOTE: See Section
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.)
CHAPTER 531
Curfew for Minors
531.01   Curfew.
531.99   Penalty.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Liquor sales to minors - see GEN. OFF.
529.02.
 
 
531.01 CURFEW.
   The Safety Director, when in his opinion the public safety requires it and
with the concurrence of the City Manager, may put into effect the following
curfew provisions by appropriate public notice:
   (a)   No person having the control and custody of or being the parent or
guardian of a minor under the age of 18 years shall permit such minor to, nor
shall such minor, be outside the confines of his homesite and congregate,
wander, loiter or play upon the streets and other public places of the City,
unsupervised or unenclosed lands, or places of amusement and entertainment, on
Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
the following day, and on Friday and Saturday between the hours of 11:30 p.m.
and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official City time. This section shall not
apply to minors on an emergency errand or on legitimate business as directed by
the parent, guardian or custodian, nor to minors accompanied by the parent,
guardian or custodian, or some other person over 21 years of age who has been
given responsibility for such minor's control and custody by the person legally
responsible for the discipline of the minor, nor to the extent paragraph (b)
permits different conduct.
   (b)   Any school, church, lodge or other organization sponsoring functions
wherein minors in attendance will be out at a later hour than provided for in
this section shall obtain the City Manager's approval to have the minors remain
to the time when the entertainment will end. All minors attending such function
shall be required to be within the confines of their respective homesites one-
half hour after such function is ended.
   (c)   Any minor violating this section shall be dealt with in accordance
with Juvenile Court law and procedure.
531.99 PENALTY.
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: See Section
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.)
CHAPTER 533
Obscenity and Sex Offenses
533.01   Definitions.
533.02   Presumption of knowledge; actual notice and defense.
533.03   Unlawful sexual conduct with a minor.
533.04   Sexual imposition.
533.05   Importuning.
533.06   Voyeurism.
533.07   Public indecency.
533.08   Procuring; engagement in sexual activity for hire.
533.09   Soliciting.
533.091   Loitering to engage in solicitation.
533.10   Prostitution.
533.11   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles.
533.12   Deception to obtain matter harmful to juveniles.
533.13   Displaying matter harmful to juveniles.
533.14   Unlawful advertising of massage.
533.15   Dissemination of private sexual images.
533.16   Grooming.
533.99    Penalty.
CROSS REFERENCES
See sectional histories for similar State law
Complicity - see GEN. OFF.
501.10
Offensive conduct - see GEN. OFF.
509.03
Telephone harassment - see GEN. OFF.
537.10
Criminal trespass - see GEN. OFF.
541.05
 
 
533.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (a)   "Sexual conduct" means vaginal intercourse between a male and female;
anal intercourse, fellatio and cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex;
and, without privilege to do so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of
the body or any instrument, apparatus or other object into the vaginal or anal
opening of another. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
vaginal or anal intercourse.
   (b)   "Sexual contact" means any touching of an erogenous zone of another,
including without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if
such person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   (c)   "Sexual activity" means sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   (d)   "Prostitute" means a male or female who promiscuously engages in
sexual activity for hire, regardless of whether the hire is paid to the
prostitute or to another.
   (e)   “Harmful to juveniles” means that quality of any material or
performance describing or representing nudity, sexual conduct, sexual
excitement, or sado- masochistic abuse in any form to which all of the
following apply:
      (1)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, appeals to
the prurient interest of juveniles in sex.
      (2)   The material or performance is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable
for juveniles.
      (3)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, lacks
serious literary, artistic, political and scientific value for juveniles.
   (f)   When considered as a whole, and judged with reference to ordinary
adults, or, if it is designed for sexual deviates or other specially
susceptible group, judged with reference to such group, any material or
performance is "obscene" if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest;
      (2)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement or nudity in a way which tends
to represent human beings as mere objects of sexual appetite;
      (3)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty or brutality;
      (4)   Its dominant tendency is to appeal to scatological interest by
displaying or depicting human bodily functions of elimination in a way which
inspires disgust or revulsion in persons with ordinary sensibilities, without
serving any genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral or artistic
purpose;
      (5)   It contains a series of displays or descriptions of sexual
activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality, extreme or
bizarre violence, cruelty or brutality, or human bodily functions of
elimination, the cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency to appeal to
prurient or scatological interest, when the appeal to such interest is
primarily for its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather than
primarily for a genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral or
artistic purpose.
   (g)   "Sexual excitement" means the condition of human male or female
genitals when in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   (h)   "Nudity" means the showing, representation or depiction of human male
or female genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a full, opaque
covering, or of a female breast with less than a full, opaque covering of any
portion thereof below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state.
   (i)   "Juvenile" means an unmarried person under the age of eighteen.
   (j)   “Licensed medical professional” means any of the following medical
professionals:
      (1)    A physician assistant licensed under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (2)    A physician authorized under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4731 to practice
medicine and surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, or podiatric medicine
and surgery;
      (3)    A massage therapist licensed under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4731.
   (k)   "Material" means any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster,
print, picture, figure, image, description, motion picture film, phonographic
record, or tape, or other tangible thing capable of arousing interest through
sight, sound, or touch and includes an image or text appearing on a computer
monitor, television screen, liquid crystal display, or similar display device
or an image or text recorded on a computer hard disk, computer floppy disk,
compact disk, magnetic tape or similar data storage device.
   (l)   "Performance" means any motion picture, preview, trailer, play, show,
skit, dance or other exhibition performed before an audience.
   (m)   "Spouse" means a person married to an offender at the time of an
alleged offense, except that such person shall not be considered the spouse
when any of the following apply:
      (1)   When the parties have entered into a written separation agreement
authorized by Ohio R.C. 3103.06;
      (2)   During the pendency of an action between the parties for annulment,
divorce, dissolution of marriage or legal separation;
      (3)   In the case of an action for legal separation, after the effective
date of the judgment for legal separation.
   (n)   "Minor" means a person under the age of eighteen years.
   (o)   “Mental health client or patient” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
2305.51.
   (p)   “Mental health professional” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
2305.115.
   (q)   “Sado-masochistic abuse” means flagellation or torture by or upon a
person or the condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically
restrained.
   (r)   “Place where a person has a reasonable expectation of privacy” means a
place where a reasonable person would believe that the person could fully
disrobe in private.
   (s)   “Private area” means the genitals, pubic area, buttocks, or female
breast below the top of the areola, where nude or covered by an under-garment.
      (ORC 2907.01)
533.02 PRESUMPTION OF KNOWLEDGE; ACTUAL NOTICE AND DEFENSE.
   (a)   An owner or manager, or agent or employee of an owner or manager, of a
bookstore, newsstand, theater, or other commercial establishment engaged in
selling materials or exhibiting performances, who, in the course of business
does any of the acts prohibited by Section
533.11, is presumed to have knowledge of the character of the material or
performance involved, if the owner, manager, or agent or employee of the owner
or manager has actual notice of the nature of such material or performance,
whether or not the owner, manager, or agent or employee of the owner or manager
has precise knowledge of its contents.
   (b)   Without limitation on the manner in which such notice may be given,
actual notice of the character of material or a performance may be given in
writing by the chief legal officer of the jurisdiction in which the person to
whom the notice is directed does business. Such notice, regardless of the
manner in which it is given, shall identify the sender, identify the material
or performance involved, state whether it is obscene or harmful to juveniles
and bear the date of such notice.
   (c)   Section
533.11  does not apply to a motion picture operator or projectionist acting
within the scope of employment as an employee of the owner or manager of a
theater or other place for the showing of motion pictures to the general
public, and having no managerial responsibility or financial interest in the
operator’s or projectionist’s place of employment, other than wages.
   (d)   (1)   Sections
533.11 ,
533.12 (a) and
 533.13 do not apply to a person solely because the person provided access or
connection to or from an electronic method of remotely transferring information
not under that person’s control, including having provided capabilities that
are incidental to providing access or connection to or from the electronic
method of remotely transferring the information, and that do not include the
creation of the content of the material that is the subject of the access or
connection.
      (2)   Subsection (d)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of Section
533.11,
533.12 or
533.13, or who knowingly advertises the availability of material of that
nature.
      (3)   Subsection (d)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
provides access or connection to an electronic method of remotely transferring
information that is engaged in the violation of Section
533.11,
533.12 or
533.13, and that contains content that person has selected and introduced into
the electronic method of remotely transferring information or content over
which that person exercises editorial control.
   (e)   An employer is not guilty of a violation of Section
533.11,
533.12, or
533.13 based on the actions of an employee or agent of the employer unless the
employee’s or agent’s conduct is within the scope of employee’s or agent’s
employment or agency, and the employer does either of the following:
      (1)   With knowledge of the employee’s or agent’s conduct, the employer
authorizes or ratifies the conduct.
      (2)   The employer recklessly disregards the employee’s or agent’s
conduct.
   (f)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under Section
533.11 or
533.13 as the section applies to an image transmitted through the internet or
another electronic method of remotely transmitting information that the person
charged with violating the section has taken, in good faith, reasonable,
effective, and appropriate actions under the circumstances to restrict or
prevent access by juveniles to material that is harmful to juveniles, including
any method that is feasible under available technology.
   (g)   If any provision of this section, or the application of any provision
of this section to any person or circumstance, is held invalid, the invalidity
does not affect other provisions or applications of this section or related
sections that can be given effect without the invalid provision or application.
To this end, the provisions are severable.
(ORC 2907.35)
533.03 UNLAWFUL SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH A MINOR.
   (a)   No person, who is eighteen years of age or older, shall engage in
sexual conduct with another, when the offender knows the other person is
thirteen years of age or older but less than sixteen years of age, or the
offender is reckless in that regard.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender is four years
older or more than the other person, or if the offender has previously been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of Ohio R.C. 2907.02, 2907.03 or
2907.04, or former Ohio R.C. 2907.12, unlawful sexual conduct with a minor is a
felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
(ORC 2907.04)
533.04 SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
   (a)    No person shall have sexual contact with another; cause another to
have sexual contact with the offender; or cause two or more other persons to
have sexual contact when the offender knows that the sexual contact is
offensive to the other person, or one of the other persons, or is reckless in
that regard.
   (b)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim's testimony unsupported by other evidence.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of Ohio R.C. 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.04,
2907.05, 2907.06 or former Section 2907.12, or a substantially similar
municipal ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
three or more violations of Ohio R.C. 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.04 or 2907.05,
2907.06 or former Section 2907.12 or of any combination of those sections, a
violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree and,
notwithstanding the range of jail terms prescribed in Ohio R.C. 2929.24, the
court may impose on the offender a definite jail term of not more than one
year.
(ORC 2907.06)
533.05 IMPORTUNING.
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Former Section
533.05 has been deleted from the Codified Ordinances. Section 533.05 was
identical to Ohio R.C. 2907.07(B) which the Ohio Supreme Court held to be
unconstitutional in State v. Thompson, 95 Ohio St. 3rd 264 (2002).)
533.06 VOYEURISM.
   (a)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying the
person’s self, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another, to spy or eavesdrop upon another.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly commit trespass or otherwise secretly or
surreptitiously videotape, film, photograph, broadcast, stream, or otherwise
record another person, in a place where a person has a reasonable expectation
of privacy, for the purpose of viewing the private areas of that person.
         
   (c)   No person shall secretly or surreptitiously videotape, film,
photograph, or otherwise record another person above, under or through the
clothing being worn by that other person for the purpose of viewing the body
of, or the undergarments worn by, that other person.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of voyeurism.
      (1)   A violation of subsection (a) hereof is a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
      (2)   A violation of subsection (b) hereof is a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
      (3)   A violation of subsection (c) hereof is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. (ORC 2907.08)
533.07 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (a)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others, who are in the person’s physical proximity and who are not
members of the person’s household:
      (1)   Expose the person’s private parts;
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation;
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is in the person’s physical proximity, who is a minor, and who is
not the spouse of the offender:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation;
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct;
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation;
      (4)   Expose the person’s private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in subsections (c)(2), (3), (4) and (5) of this
section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c)(2) of this section,
a violation of subsection (a)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section, a violation of subsection (a)(1) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the third degree or, if any person who was likely to view
and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the
second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two violations of this section, a violation of subsection (a)(1) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person who was
likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, a violation
of subsection (a)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or,
if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct
was a minor, a felony which shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c)(3) of this section,
a violation of subsection (a)(2) or (3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section, a violation of subsection (a)(2) or
(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person who
was likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section, a
violation of subsection (a)(2) or (3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony which shall be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c)(4) of this section,
a violation of subsection (b)(1), (2) or (3) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one violation of this section, a violation of subsection (b)
(1), (2) or (3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more
violations of this section, a violation of subsection (b)(1), (2) or (3) of
this section is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   A violation of subsection (b)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree unless the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to any violation of this section in which case the violation is
a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (d)   (1)   If either of the following applies, the court may determine at
the time of sentencing whether to classify the offender as a tier I sex
offender/child- victim offender for a violation of subsection (b)(4) of this
section:
         A.   The offender is less than ten years older than the other person.
         B.   The offender is ten or more years older than the other person and
the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of this section.
      (2)   If the offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
subsection (b)(4) of this section, is ten or more years older than the other
person, and previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation
of this section, the court shall issue an order at the time of sentencing that
classifies the offender as a tier I sex offender/child-victim offender subject
to registration under Ohio R.C. 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05 and 2950.06.
         (ORC 2907.09)
533.08 PROCURING; ENGAGEMENT IN SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE.
   (a)   Procuring. No person, knowingly and for gain, shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   A.   Entice or solicit another to patronize a prostitute or
brothel;
         B.   Procure a prostitute for another to patronize, or take or direct
another at his or her request to any place for the purpose of patronizing a
prostitute.
      (2)   No person, having authority or responsibility over the use of
premises, shall knowingly permit such premises to be used for the purpose of
engaging in sexual activity for hire.
      (3)   Whoever violates subsection (a)(1)A. or B. of this section is
guilty of procuring. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection (c),
procuring is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the prostitute who is
procured, patronized or otherwise involved in a violation of subsection (a)
(1)B. of this section is under eighteen years of age at the time of the
violation, regardless of whether the offender who violates subsection (a)(1)B.
of this section knows the prostitute’s age, or if a prostitute who engages in
sexual activity for hire in premises used in violation of subsection (a)(2) of
this section is under eighteen years of age at the time of the violation,
regardless of whether the offender who violates subsection (a)(2) of this
section knows the prostitute’s age, procuring is a felony and shall be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (b)   Engagement in Sexual Activity for Hire.
      (1)   As used in this subsection (b) of this section:
         A.   “Person with a developmental disability” has the same meaning as
in Ohio R.C. 2905.32.
         B.   “Sexual activity for hire” means an implicit or explicit
agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange for anything of value paid to
the person engaging in such sexual activity, to any person trafficking that
person, or to any person associated with either such person.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person.
      (3)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person if the other person is a person with a
developmental disability and the offender knows or has reasonable cause to
believe that the other person is a person with a developmental disability.
      (4)   Whoever violates subsection (b)(2) of this section is guilty of
engaging in prostitution, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates
subsection (b)(3) of this section is guilty of engaging in prostitution with a
person with a developmental disability, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. In sentencing an offender under this subsection for a
violation of subsection (b)(2) of this section, the court shall require the
offender to attend an education or treatment program aimed at preventing
persons from inducing, enticing, or procuring another to engage in sexual
activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything of value to the
other person. Notwithstanding the fine specified in Ohio R.C. 2929.28(A)(2)(a)
for a misdemeanor of the first degree, in sentencing an offender under this
subsection for a violation of subsection (b)(2) of this section, the court may
impose upon the offender a fine of not more than one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500).
         (ORC 2907.231)
533.09 SOLICITING.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly solicit another to engage in sexual activity
for hire in exchange for the person receiving anything of value from the other
person.
   (b)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of subsection (a) of this section.
   (c)   As used in subsection (a) of this section, “Sexual Activity for Hire”
means an implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange
for anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to
any person trafficking that person, or to any
person associated with either such person.
   (d)    (1)    Whoever violates subsection (a) of this section is guilty of
soliciting. Soliciting is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)    Whoever violates subsection (b) of this section is guilty of
engaging in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. (ORC 2907.24)
533.091 LOITERING TO ENGAGE IN SOLICITATION.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to solicit another to engage in sexual
activity for hire and while in or near a public place, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Beckon to, stop or attempt to stop another;
      (2)   Engage or attempt to engage another in conversation;
      (3)   Stop or attempt to stop the operator of a vehicle or approach a
stationary vehicle;
      (4)   If the offender is the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle,
stop, attempt to stop, beckon to, attempt to beckon to, or entice another to
approach or enter the vehicle of which the offender is the operator or in which
the offender is the passenger;
      (5)   Interfere with the free passage of another.
   (b)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of subsection (a) of this section.
   (c)   As used in subsection (a) of this section:
      (1)   “Public Place”. Means any of the following:
         A.   A street, road, highway, thoroughfare, bikeway, walkway,
sidewalk, bridge, alley, alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility.
         B.   A doorway or entrance way to a building that fronts on a place
described in subsection (c)(1)A. of this definition.
         C.   A place not described in subsection (c)(1)A. or B. of this
definition that is open to the public.
      (2)   “Vehicle”. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4501.01.
   (d)   (1)    Whoever violates subsection (a) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)    Whoever violates subsection (b) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (ORC 2907.24, 2907.241)
533.10 PROSTITUTION.
   (a)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (b)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in sexual activity for hire.
   (c)   (1)    Whoever violates subsection (a) of this section is guilty of
prostitution, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)    Whoever violates subsection (b) of this section is guilty of
engaging in prostitution after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (ORC 2907.25)
533.11 DISSEMINATING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (a)   No person, with knowledge of its character or content, shall
recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit,
rent or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles;
      (2)   Directly offer or agree to sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law
enforcement officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement
officers posing as juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles;
      (3)   While in the physical proximity of the juvenile or law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, allow any juvenile or law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile to review or peruse any material or view any live
performance that is harmful to juveniles.
   (b)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section,
that involves material or a performance that is harmful to juveniles but not
obscene:
      (1)   The defendant is the parent, guardian or spouse of the juvenile
involved.
      (2)   The juvenile involved, at the time of the conduct in question, was
accompanied by the juvenile’s parent or guardian who, with knowledge of its
character, consented to the material or performance being furnished or
presented to the juvenile.
      (3)   The juvenile exhibited to the defendant or the defendant’s agent or
employee a draft card, driver's license, birth certificate, marriage license,
or other official or apparently official document purporting to show that the
juvenile was eighteen years of age or over or married, and the person to whom
that document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable cause to believe
that the juvenile was under the age of eighteen and unmarried.
   (c)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section,
involving material or a performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles,
that the material or performance was furnished or presented for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, governmental, judicial or other proper
purpose, by a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher,
librarian, clergyman, prosecutor, judge or other proper person.
      (2)   Except as provided in subsection (b)(3) hereof, mistake of age is
not a defense to a charge under this section.
   (d)   (1)   A person directly sells, delivers, furnishes, disseminates,
provides, exhibits, rents, or presents or directly offers or agrees to sell,
deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present material or a
performance to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section by means of an electronic method of
remotely transmitting information if the person knows or has reason to believe
that the person receiving the information is a juvenile or the group of persons
receiving the information are juveniles.
      (2)   A person remotely transmitting information by means of a method of
mass distribution does not directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present or directly offer or agree to sell, deliver,
furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present the material or
performance in question to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section if either of the following applies:
         A.   The person has inadequate information to know or have reason to
believe that a particular recipient of the information or offer is a juvenile.
         B.   The method of mass distribution does not provide the person the
ability to prevent a particular recipient from receiving the information.
   (e)   If any provision of this section, or the application of any provision
of this section to any person or circumstance, is held invalid, the invalidity
does not affect other provisions or applications of this section or related
sections that can be given effect without the invalid provision or application.
To this end, the provisions are severable.
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles. If the material or performance involved is harmful to
juveniles, except as otherwise provided in this subsection, a violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the material or performance
involved is obscene, a violation of this section is a felony and shall be
prosecuted under appropriate State law. (ORC 2907.31)
533.12 DECEPTION TO OBTAIN MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (a)   No person, for the purpose of enabling a juvenile to obtain any
material or gain admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he is the parent, guardian or spouse of such
juvenile;
      (2)   Furnish such juvenile with any identification or document
purporting to show that such juvenile is eighteen years of age or over or
married.
   (b)   No juvenile, for the purpose of obtaining any material or gaining
admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles, shall do either of
the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he is eighteen years of age or over or
married;
      (2)   Exhibit any identification or document purporting to show that he
is eighteen years of age or over or married.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain matter
harmful to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the second degree. A juvenile who
violates subsection (b) hereof shall be adjudged an unruly child, with such
disposition of the case as may be appropriate under Ohio R.C. Chapter 2151.
(ORC 2907.33)
533.13 DISPLAYING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (a)   No person who has custody, control or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character or content of the material
involved, shall display at the establishment any material that is harmful to
juveniles and that is open to view by juveniles as part of the invited general
public.
   (b)   It is not a violation of subsection (a) hereof if the material in
question is displayed by placing it behind "blinder racks" or similar devices
that cover at least the lower two-thirds of the material, if the material in
question is wrapped or placed behind the counter, or if the material in
question otherwise is covered or located so that the portion that is harmful to
juveniles is not open to the view of juveniles.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of displaying matter harmful
to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day during which the
offender is in violation of this section constitutes a separate offense.
(ORC 2907.311)
533.14 UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING OF MASSAGE.
   (a)   No person, by means of a statement, solicitation, or offer in a print
or electronic publication, sign, placard, storefront display, or other medium,
shall advertise massage, relaxation massage, any other massage technique or
method, or any related service, with the suggestion or promise of sexual
activity.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful advertising of
massage, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (c)   Nothing in this section prevents the legislative authority of a
municipal corporation or township from enacting any regulation of the
advertising of massage further than and in addition to the provisions of
subsections (a) and (b) of this section. (ORC 2927.17)
533.15 DISSEMINATION OF PRIVATE SEXUAL IMAGES.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Disseminate” means to post, distribute, or publish on a computer
device, computer network, web site, or other electronic device or medium of
communication.
      (2)   “Image” means a photograph, film, videotape, digital recording or
other depiction or portrayal of a person.
      (3)   “Interactive computer service” has the meaning defined in the
“Telecommunications Act of 1996", 47 U.S.C. 230, as amended.
      (4)   “Internet provider” means a provider of internet service, including
all of the following:
         A.   Broadband service, however defined or classified by the federal
communications commission;
         B.   Information service or telecommunication service, both as defined
in the “Telecommunications Act of 1996" 47 U.S.C. 153, as amended.
         C.   Internet protocol-enabled services, as defined in Ohio R.C.
4927.01.
      (5)   “Mobile service” and “telecommunications carrier” have the meanings
defined in 47 U.S.C. 153, as amended.
      (6)   “Cable service provider” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
1332.01.
      (7)   “Direct-to-home satellite service” has the meaning defined in 47
U.S.C. 303, as amended.
      (8)   “Video service provider” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
1332.21.
      (9)   “Sexual act” means any of the following:
         A.   Sexual activity;
         B.   Masturbation;
         C.   An act involving a bodily substance that is performed for the
purpose of sexual arousal or gratification;
         D.   Sado-masochistic abuse.
   
   (b)   No person shall knowingly disseminate an image of another person if
all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person in the image is eighteen years of age or older;
      (2)   The person in the image can be identified from the image itself or
from information displayed in connection with the image and the offender
supplied the identifying information.
      (3)   The person in the image is in a state of nudity or is engaged in a
sexual act;
      (4)   The image is disseminated without consent from the person in the
image;
      (5)   The image is disseminated with intent to harm the person in the
image.
   (c)   This section does not prohibit the dissemination of an image if any of
the following apply:
      (1)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of a criminal
investigation that is otherwise lawful.
      (2)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the reporting of unlawful conduct.
      (3)   The image is part of a news report or commentary or an artistic or
expressive work, such as a performance, work of art, literary work, theatrical
work, musical work, motion picture, film, or audiovisual work.
      (4)   The image is disseminated by a law enforcement officer, or a
corrections officer or guard in a detention facility, acting within the scope
of the person’s official duties.
      (5)   The image is disseminated for another lawful public purpose;
      (6)   The person in the image is knowingly and willingly in a state of
nudity or engaged in a sexual act and is knowingly and willingly in a location
in which the person does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy.
      (7)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of medical treatment or
examination.
   (d)   The following entities are not liable for a violation of this section
solely as a result of an image or other information provided by another person:
      (1)   A provider of interactive computer service;
      (2)   A mobile service;
      (3)   A telecommunications carrier;
      (4)   An internet provider;
      (5)   A cable service provider;
      (6)   A direct-to-home satellite service;
      (7)   A video service provider.
   (e)   Any conduct that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the General Offenses Code, or the Revised Code may be prosecuted under this
section, the other section, or both sections.
   (f)   (1)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (f)(1)B., C., or
D. of this section, whoever violates this section is guilty of nonconsensual
dissemination of private sexual images, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of this section, nonconsensual dissemination of private
sexual images is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         C.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section, nonconsensual dissemination
of private sexual images is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         D.   If the offender is under eighteen years of age and the person in
the image is not more than five years older than the offender, the offender
shall not be prosecuted under this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty or disposition authorized or
required by law, the court may order any person who is convicted of a violation
of this section or who is adjudicated delinquent by reason of a violation of
this section to criminally forfeit all of the following property to the state
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 2981.
         A.   Any profits or proceeds and any property the person has acquired
or maintained in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines
to have been acquired or maintained as a result of the violation;
         B.   Any interest in, securities of, claim against, or property or
contractual right of any kind affording a source of influence over any
enterprise that the person has established, operated, controlled or conducted
in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines to have been
acquired or maintained as a result of the violation.
   (g)   A victim of a violation of this section may commence a civil cause of
action against the offender, as described in Ohio R.C. 2307.66.
(ORC 2917.211)
533.16 GROOMING.
   (a)    As used in this section, “pattern of conduct” has the same meaning as
in Ohio R.C. 2903.211.
   (b)    No person who is eighteen years of age or older shall engage in a
pattern of conduct with a minor who is less than sixteen years of age and who
is four or more years younger than the person, when the pattern of conduct
would cause a reasonable adult person to believe that the person is
communicating with the minor with purpose to do either of the following:
      (1)    Entice, coerce, or solicit the minor to engage in sexual activity,
and when the person’s purpose in engaging in the pattern of conduct is to
entice, coerce, or solicit the minor to engage in sexual activity with the
person or a third person;
      (2)    Prepare the minor to engage in sexual activity, and when the
person’s purpose in engaging in the pattern of conduct is to prepare the minor
to engage in sexual activity with the person or a third person that would be a
violation of Ohio R.C. 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, or 2907.07.
   (c)    No person who is eighteen years of age or older shall engage in a
pattern of conduct with a minor if the person and the minor are in any of the
relationships described in Ohio R.C. 2907.03(A)(5) to (A)(13), when the pattern
of conduct would cause a reasonable adult person to believe that the person is
communicating with the minor with purpose to do either of the following:
      (1)    Entice, coerce, or solicit the minor to engage in sexual activity,
and when the person’s purpose in engaging in the pattern of conduct is to
entice, coerce, or solicit the minor to engage in sexual activity with the
person or a third person;
      (2)    Prepare the minor to engage in sexual activity, and when the
person’s purpose in engaging in the pattern of conduct is to prepare the minor
to engage in sexual activity with the person or a third person that would be a
violation of Ohio R.C. 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, or 2907.07.
   (d)    Whoever violates this section is guilty of grooming.
      (1)    Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
subsection (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
victim of the offense is less than thirteen years of age or if the offender
supplied alcohol or a drug of abuse to the victim of the offense, a violation
of subsection (b) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If the victim of the offense is less than thirteen years
of age and if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this section or a sexually oriented offense or a child-victim
oriented offense or the offender supplied alcohol or a drug of abuse to the
victim of the offense, a violation of subsection (b) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or a
sexually oriented offense or a child-victim oriented offense and the offender
supplied alcohol or a drug of abuse to the victim of the offense, a violation
of subsection (b) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)    Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, a violation of
subsection (c) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender supplied alcohol or a drug of abuse to the victim of the offense, a
violation of subsection (c) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If the victim of the offense is less than thirteen years
of age or if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
a violation of this section or a sexually oriented offense or a child-victim
oriented offense, a violation of subsection (c) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the victim of the offense is less
than thirteen years of age and if the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or a sexually oriented offense
or a child-victim oriented offense or the offender supplied alcohol or a drug
of abuse to the victim of the offense, a violation of subsection (c) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      
   (e)    A prosecution for a violation of this section does not preclude a
prosecution of a violation of any other section of the this code or the Ohio
Revised Code. One or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of behavior that
can be prosecuted under this section or any other section of this code or the
Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, the other section of
this code or the Revised Code, or both sections.
(ORC 2907.071)
533.99 PENALTY.
   (EDITOR'S NOTE: See Section
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.)
CHAPTER 537
Offenses Against Persons
537.01   Negligent homicide.
537.02   Vehicular homicide and manslaughter.
537.021   Vehicular assault in a construction zone.
537.03   Assault.
537.04   Negligent assault.
537.05   Aggravated menacing.
537.051   Menacing by stalking.
537.06   Menacing.
537.07   Endangering children.
537.08   Unlawful restraint.
537.09   Coercion.
537.10   Telecommunication harassment.
537.11   Threatening or harassing telephone calls.
537.12   Misuse of 9-1-1 system.
537.13   Adulterating of or furnishing adulterated food or confection.
537.14   Domestic violence.
537.15   Temporary protection order.
537.16   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternate nicotine products; transaction scans.
537.17   Reserved.
537.18   Contributing to unruliness or delinquency of a child.
537.19   Hazing.
537.20   Illegal use of a tracking device or application.
537.99   Penalty.
   
CROSS REFERENCES
See sectional histories for similar State law
Physical harm to persons defined - see GEN. OFF.
501.01 (c), (e)
Fighting; provoking violent response - see GEN. OFF.
509.03
 
 
537.01 NEGLIGENT HOMICIDE.
   (a)   No person shall negligently cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another’s pregnancy by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance as defined in Section
549.01.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent homicide, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. (ORC 2903.05)
537.02 VEHICULAR HOMICIDE AND MANSLAUGHTER.
   (a)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, utility vehicle, mini-truck, snowmobile, locomotive,
watercraft, or aircraft, shall cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another’s pregnancy in any of the following ways:
      (1)    As the proximate result of committing an OVI offense.
      (2)    In one of the following ways:
         A.   Recklessly;
         B.   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle, utility vehicle, mini-truck,
or motorcycle in a construction zone, a reckless operation offense, provided
that this division applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose
pregnancy is unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of
the offender’s commission of the reckless operation offense in the construction
zone and does not apply as described in subsection (d) of this section.
      (3)    In one of the following ways:
         A.   Negligently;
         B.   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle, utility vehicle, mini-truck,
or motorcycle in a construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this
subsection applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy
is unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of the
offender’s commission of the speeding offense in the construction zone and does
not apply as described in subsection (d) of this section.
      (4)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of any provision
of any section contained in Title XLV of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor
misdemeanor or of a municipal ordinance that, regardless of the penalty set by
ordinance for the violation, is substantially equivalent to any provision of
any section contained in Title XLV of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor
misdemeanor.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (a)(3) of this section is guilty of
vehicular homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, vehicular
homicide is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide is a felony
and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law if, at the time of the
offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or
was operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible
for renewal of the offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s license
without examination under Ohio R.C. 4507.10 or if the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any
traffic-related homicide, manslaughter or assault offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates subsection (a)(4) of this section is guilty of
vehicular manslaughter. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection,
vehicular manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Vehicular
manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the first degree if, at the time of the
offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or
was operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege, and was
not eligible for renewal of the offender’s driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license without examination under Ohio R.C. 4507.10 or if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this
section or any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
   (c)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least fifteen days
on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
subsection (a)(3)B. of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to Section
501.99.
   (d)   Subsection (a)(2)B. and (a)(3)B. do not apply in a particular
construction zone unless signs of the type described in Ohio R.C. 2903.081 are
erected in that construction zone in accordance with the guidelines and design
specifications established by the Director of Transportation under Ohio R.C.
5501.27. The failure to erect signs of the type described in Ohio R.C. 2903.081
in a particular construction zone in accordance with those guidelines and
design specifications does not limit or affect the application of subsections
(a)(1), (a)(2)A., (a)(3)A., or (a)(4) of this section in that construction zone
or the prosecution of any person who violates any of those subsections in that
construction zone.
   (e)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Construction zone” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 5501.27.
      (2)   “Mandatory prison term” and “mandatory jail term” have the same
meanings as in Ohio R.C. 2929.01.
      (3)   “Motor vehicle”, “mini-truck” and “utility vehicle” have the same
meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4501.01.
      (4)   “OVI offense” means a violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A), a
violation of Ohio R.C. 1547.11(A), a violation of Ohio R.C. 4561.15(A)(3), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   “Reckless operation offense” means a violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.20
or a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to Ohio R.C. 4511.20.
      (6)   “Speeding offense” means a violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.21 or a
municipal ordinance pertaining to speed.
      (7)   “Traffic-related homicide, manslaughter or assault offense” means a
violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.04 in circumstances in which division (D) of that
section applies, a violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.06 or 2903.08, or a violation of
Ohio R.C. 2903.06, 2903.07 or 2903.08 as they existed prior to March 23, 2000.
   (f)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this State, or current or former
law of another state or the United States. (ORC 2903.06)
   (g)   The court imposing a sentence upon an offender for any violation of
this section also shall impose a suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in
division (B) of Ohio R.C. 4510.02 that is equivalent in length to the
suspension required for a violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.06 under similar
circumstances.
(ORC 4510.07)
537.021 VEHICULAR ASSAULT IN A CONSTRUCTION ZONE.
   (a)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, utility vehicle, mini-truck, snowmobile, locomotive,
watercraft, or aircraft, shall cause serious physical harm to another person or
another’s unborn as the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle, utility vehicle, mini-truck,
or motorcycle in a construction zone, a speeding offense. This subsection
applies only if the person to whom the serious physical harm is caused or to
whose unborn the serious physical harm is caused is in the construction zone at
the time of the offender’s commission of the speeding offense in the
construction zone and does not apply as described in subsection (d) hereof.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of vehicular assault. Except
as provided in this subsection, vehicular assault is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. Vehicular assault is a felony if, at the time of the offense, the
offender was driving under a suspension imposed under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4510,
or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or if the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any
traffic- related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense, and shall be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   In addition to any other sanctions imposed, the court shall impose upon the
offender a class four suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in division (A)(4) of
Ohio R.C. 4510.02.
   (c)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least seven days on
an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section
and may impose upon the offender a longer jail term as authorized pursuant to
Section
501.99.
   (d)   This section does not apply in a particular construction zone unless
signs of the type described in Ohio R.C. 2903.081 are erected in that
construction zone in accordance with the guidelines and design specifications
established by the Director of Transportation under Ohio R.C. 5501.27.
   (e)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Mandatory jail term” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2929.01.
      (2)   “Traffic-related homicide, manslaughter or assault offense” has the
same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2903.06.
      (3)   “Construction zone” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 5501.27.
      (4)   “Speeding offense” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2903.06.
   
   (f)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this State, or current or former
law of another state or the United States. (ORC 2903.08)
537.03 ASSAULT.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to
another or to another’s unborn.
   (b)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to another or
to another’s unborn.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of assault, a
misdemeanor of the first degree, and the court shall sentence the offender as
provided in subsection (c) hereof. If the assault was committed under the
circumstances provided in subsection (c)(2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8) or
(9) hereof, assault is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State
law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, if the offense is
committed by a caretaker against a functionally impaired person under the
caretaker’s care, the assault is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate State law.
      (3)   If the offense occurs in or on the grounds of a State correctional
institution or an institution of the Department of Youth Services, the victim
of the offense is an employee of the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction or the Department of Youth Services, and the offense is committed by
a person incarcerated in the State correctional institution or by a person
institutionalized in the Department of Youth Services Institution pursuant to a
commitment to the Department of Youth Services.
      (4)   If the offense is committed in any of the following circumstances:
         A.   The offense occurs in or on the grounds of a local correctional
facility, the victim of the offense is an employee of the local correctional
facility or a probation department or is on the premises of the facility for
business purposes or as a visitor, and the offense is committed by a person who
is under custody in the facility subsequent to the person’s arrest for any
crime or delinquent act, subsequent to the person’s being charged with or
convicted of any crime, or subsequent to the person’s being alleged to be or
adjudicated a delinquent child.
         B.   The offense occurs off the grounds of a State correctional
institution and off the grounds of an institution of the Department of Youth
Services, the victim of the offense is an employee of the Department of
Rehabilitation and Correction, the Department of Youth Services, or a probation
department, the offense occurs during the employee’s official work hours and
while the employee is engaged in official work responsibilities, and the
offense is committed by a person incarcerated in a State correctional
institution or institutionalized in the Department of Youth Services who
temporarily is outside of the institution for any purpose, by a parolee, by an
offender under transitional control, under a community control sanction, or on
an escorted visit, by a person under post-release control, or by an offender
under any other type of supervision by a government agency.
         C.   The offense occurs off the grounds of a local correctional
facility, the victim of the offense is an employee of the local correctional
facility or a probation department, the offense occurs during the employee’s
official work hours and while the employee is engaged in official work
responsibilities, and the offense is committed by a person who is under custody
in the facility subsequent to the person’s arrest for any crime or delinquent
act, subsequent to the     person being charged with or convicted of any crime,
or subsequent to the person being alleged to be or adjudicated a delinquent
child and who temporarily is outside of the facility for any purpose or by a
parolee, by an offender under transitional control, under a community control
sanction, or on an escorted visit, by a person under post-release control, or
by an offender under any other type of supervision by a government agency.
         D.   The victim of the offense is a school teacher or administrator or
a school bus operator, and the offense occurs in a school, on school premises,
in a school building, on a school bus or while the victim is outside of school
premises or a school bus and is engaged in duties or official responsibilities
associated with the victim’s employment or position as a school teacher or
administrator or a school bus operator, including, but not limited to, driving,
accompanying, or chaperoning students at or on class or field trips, athletic
events, or other school extracurricular activities or functions outside of
school premises.
      (5)   If the victim of the offense is a peace officer or an investigator
of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, a firefighter, or a
person performing emergency medical service, while in the performance of their
official duties.
      (6)   If the victim of the offense is a peace officer or an investigator
of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation and if the victim
suffered serious physical harm as a result of the commission of the offense.
      (7)   If the victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a public
children services agency or a private child placing agency and the offense
relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties.
      (8)   If the victim of the offense is a health care professional of a
hospital, a health care worker of a hospital, or a security officer of a
hospital whom the offender knows or has reasonable cause to know is a health
care professional of a hospital; a health care worker of a hospital, or a
security officer of a hospital, if the victim is engaged in the performance of
the victim’s duties, and if the hospital offers de-escalation or crisis
intervention training for such professionals, workers or officers, assault is
one of the following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c)(8)B. of this
section, assault committed in the specified circumstances is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. Notwithstanding the fine specified in division (A)(2)(b) of
Ohio R.C. 2929.28 for a misdemeanor of the first degree, in sentencing the
offender under this subsection and if the court decides to impose a fine, the
court may impose upon the offender a fine of not more than five thousand
dollars ($5,000).
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more assault or homicide offenses committed against hospital
personnel, assault committed in the specified circumstances is a felony.
      (9)   If the victim of the offense is a judge, magistrate, prosecutor or
court official or employee whom the offender knows or has reasonable cause to
know is a judge, magistrate, prosecutor or court official or employee, and if
the victim is engaged in the performance of the victim’s duties, assault is one
of the following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c)(9)B. of this
section, assault committed in the specified circumstances is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. In sentencing the offender under this subsection, if the
court decides to impose a fine, notwithstanding the fine specified in division
(A)(2)(b) of Ohio R.C. 2929.28 for a misdemeanor of the first degree, the court
may impose upon the offender a fine of not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000).
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more assault or homicide offenses committed against justice
system personnel, assault committed in the specified circumstances is a felony.
      (10)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to assault
when it is a misdemeanor also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
specification as described in Ohio R.C. 2941.1423 that was included in the
indictment, count in the indictment or information charging the offense, the
court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term as provided in
division (G) of Ohio R.C. 2929.24.
      (11)   A prosecution for a violation of subsections (a) or (b) of this
section does not preclude a prosecution for a violation of any other section of
the Ohio Revised Code. One or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of
behavior that can be prosecuted under subsections (a) or (b) of this section or
any other section of the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under subsections
(a) or (b) of this section, the other sections of the Ohio Revised Code, or
both sections. However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of subsections (a) or (b) of this section and also is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.22, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, based on the same conduct involving the same
victim that was the basis of the violation of subsections (a) or (b) of this
section, the offenses are allied offenses of similar import under Ohio R.C.
2941.25.
   (d)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Peace officer” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2935.01.
      (2)   “Firefighter” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 3937.41.
      (3)   “Emergency medical service” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
4765.01.
      (4)   “Local correctional facility” means a county, multicounty,
municipal, municipal-county or multicounty-municipal jail or workhouse. A
minimum security jail established under Ohio R.C. 341.23 or 753.21, or another
county, multicounty, municipal, municipal-county, or multicounty- municipal
facility used for the custody of persons arrested for any crime or delinquent
act, persons charged with or convicted of any crime, or persons alleged to be
or adjudicated a delinquent child.
      (5)   “Employee of a local correctional facility” means a person who is
an employee of the political subdivision or of one or more of the affiliated
political subdivisions that operates the local correctional facility and who
operates or assists in the operation of the facility.
      (6)   “School teacher or administrator” means either of the following:
         A.   A person who is employed in the public schools of the State under
a contract described in Ohio R.C. 3311.77 or 3319.08 in a position in which the
person is required to have a certificate issued pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3319.22
to 3319.311.
         B.   A person who is employed by a nonpublic school for which the
Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards under Ohio
R.C. 3301.07 and who is certified in accordance with Ohio R.C. 3301.071.
      (7)   “Community control sanction” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
2929.01.
      (8)   “Escorted visit” means an escorted visit granted under Ohio R.C.
2967.27.
      (9)   “Post-release control” and “transitional control” have the same
meanings as in Ohio R.C. 2967.01.
      (10)   “Investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2903.11.
      (11)   “Health care professional” and “health care worker” have the same
meanings as in Ohio R.C. 2305.234.
      (12)   “Assault or homicide offense committed against hospital personnel”
means a violation of this section or Ohio R.C. 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03,
2903.04, 2903.041, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13 or 2903.14 committed in
circumstances in which all of the following apply:
         A.   The victim of the offense was a health care professional of a
hospital, a health care worker of a hospital or a security officer of a
hospital.
         B.   The offender knew or had reasonable cause to know that the victim
was a health care professional of a hospital, a health care worker of a
hospital, or a security officer of a hospital;
         C.   The victim was engaged in the performance of the victim’s duties.
         D.   The hospital offered de-escalation or crisis intervention
training for such professionals, workers or officers.
      (13)   “De-escalation or crisis intervention training” means de-
escalation or crisis intervention training for health care professionals of a
hospital, health care workers of a hospital, and security officers of a
hospital to facilitate interaction with patients, members of a patient’s
family, and visitors, including those with mental impairments.
      (14)   “Assault or homicide offense committed against justice system
personnel” means a violation of this section or of Ohio R.C. 2903.01, 2903.02,
2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.041, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13 or 2903.14 committed in
circumstances in which the victim of the offense was a judge, magistrate,
prosecutor, or court official or employee whom the offender knew or had
reasonable cause to know was a judge, magistrate, prosecutor, or court official
or employee, and the victim was engaged in the performance of the victim’s
duties.
      (15)   “Court official or employee” means any official or employee of a
court created under the constitution or statutes of this State or of a United
States court located in this State.
      (16)   “Judge” means a judge of a court created under the constitution or
statutes of this State or of a United States court located in this State.
      (17)   “Magistrate” means an individual who is appointed by a court of
record of this State and who has the powers and may perform the functions
specified in Civil Rule 53, Criminal Rule 19, or Juvenile Rule 40, or an
individual who is appointed by a United States court located in this State who
has similar powers and functions.
      (18)   “Prosecutor” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2935.01.
      (19)   A.   “Hospital” means, subject to subsection (d)(19)B. of this
section, an institution classified as a hospital under Ohio R.C. 3701.01 in
which are provided to patients diagnostic, medical, surgical, obstetrical,
psychiatric, or rehabilitation care or a hospital operated by a health
maintenance organization.
         B.   “Hospital” does not include any of the following:
            1.   A facility licensed under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3721, a health
care facility operated by the Department of Mental Health or the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, a health maintenance organization that does not
operate a hospital, or the office of any private, licensed health care
professional, whether organized for individual or group practice;
            2.   An institution for the sick that is operated exclusively for
patients who use spiritual means for healing and for whom the acceptance of
medical care is inconsistent with their religious beliefs, accredited by a
national accrediting organization, exempt from federal income taxation under
Section
501 of the “Internal Revenue Code of 1986", 100 Stat. 2085, 26 U.S.C. 1, as
amended, and providing twenty-four-hour nursing care pursuant to the exemption
in division (E) of Ohio R.C. 4723.32 from the licensing requirements of Ohio
R.C. Chapter 4723.
      (20)   “Health maintenance organization” has the same meaning as in Ohio
R.C. 3727.01.
      (21)   “Emergency service responder” means any law enforcement officer,
first responder, emergency medical technician-basic, emergency medical
technician-intermediate, emergency medical technician-paramedic, firefighter,
or volunteer firefighter.
      (22)   “Family or household member” means any of the following:
         A.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with a person
who is employed as an emergency service responder:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of a
person who is employed as an emergency service responder;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of a person who is
employed as an emergency service responder, or another person related by
consanguinity or affinity to a person who is employed as an emergency service
responder;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of a person who is employed as an emergency service responder, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to a spouse, person living
as a spouse, or former spouse of a person who is employed as an emergency
service responder.
         B.   The natural parent of any child of whom a person who is employed
as an emergency service responder is the other natural parent or is the
putative other natural parent.
      (23)   “First responder”, “emergency medical technician-basic”,
“emergency medical technician-intermediate” and “emergency medical technician-
paramedic” have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 4765.01.
      (24)   “Volunteer firefighter” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
146.01.
      (25)   “Person living as a spouse” means a person who is living or has
lived with a person who is employed as an emergency service responder in a
common law marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with a person who
is employed as an emergency service responder, or who otherwise has cohabited
with a person who is employed as an emergency service responder within five
years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in question.
      (26)   “Co-worker” means a person who is employed by the organization or
entity that is served by a person who is employed as an emergency service
responder. (ORC 2903.13)
537.04 NEGLIGENT ASSAULT.
   (a)   No person shall negligently, by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance as defined in Section
549.01 cause physical harm to another or to another’s unborn.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent assault, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. (ORC 2903.14)
537.05 AGGRAVATED MENACING.
   (a)    No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the offender
will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the other person,
the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate family.
In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the offender
will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the other person,
the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate family,
the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of the offender that
are directed at or identify a corporation, association or other organization
that employs the other person or to which the other person belongs.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated menacing. Except
as otherwise provided in this subsection (b), aggravated menacing is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or a private child placing agency
and the offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or
anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties, or, if the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to an offense of
violence, the victim of that prior offense was an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or private child placing agency, and that prior
offense related to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties, aggravated menacing is a
felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
   (c)   As used in this section, “organization” includes an entity that is a
governmental employer. (ORC 2903.21)
537.051 MENACING BY STALKING.
   (a)   (1)   No person by engaging in a pattern of conduct shall knowingly
cause another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
the other person or a family or household member of the other person or cause
mental distress to the other person or a family or household member of the
other person. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that
the offender will cause physical harm to the other person or the other person’s
family or household member or mental distress to the other person or the other
person’s family or household member, the other person’s belief or mental
distress may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are directed at
or identify a corporation, association or other organization that employs the
other person or to which the other person belongs.
      (2)   No person, through the use of any form of written communication or
any electronic method of remotely transferring information, including, but not
limited to, any computer, computer network, computer program, computer system
or telecommunication device shall post a message or use any intentionally
written or verbal graphic gesture with purpose to do either of the following:
         A.   Violate subsection (a)(1) of this section;
         B.   Urge or incite another to commit a violation of subsection (a)(1)
of this section.
      (3)   No person, with sexual motivation, shall violate subsection (a)(1)
or (2) of this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of menacing by stalking.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in subsections (b)(2) and (3) of this
section, menacing by stalking is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Menacing by stalking is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate State law if any of the following applies:
         A.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this section or a violation of Section
541.05 1.
         B.   In committing the offense under subsection (a)(1), (2), or (3) of
this section, the offender made a threat of physical harm to or against the
victim, or as a result of an offense committed under subsection (a)(2) or (3)
of this section, a third person induced by the offender’s posted message made a
threat of physical harm to or against the victim.
         C.   In committing the offense under subsection (a)(1), (2), or (3) of
this section, the offender trespassed on the land or premises where the victim
lives, is employed, or attends school, or as a result of an offense committed
under subsection (a)(2) or (3) of this section, a third person induced by the
offender’s posted message trespassed on the land or premises where the victim
lives, is employed, or attends school.
         D.   The victim of the offense is a minor.
         E.   The offender has a history of violence toward the victim or any
other person or a history of other violent acts toward the victim or any other
person.
         F.   While committing the offense under subsection (a)(1) of this
section or a violation of subsection (a)(3) of this section is based on conduct
in violation of subsection (a)(1) of this section, the offender had a deadly
weapon on or about the offender’s person or under the offender’s control.
Subsection (b)(2)F. of this section does not apply in determining the penalty
for a violation of subsection (a)(2) of this section or a violation of
subsection (a)(3) of this section based on conduct in violation of subsection
(a)(1) of this section.
         G.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under Ohio R.C. 2903.213 or 2903.214,
regardless of whether the person to be protected under the order is the victim
of the offense or another person.
         H.   In committing the offense under subsection (a)(1), (2), or (3) of
this section, the offender caused serious physical harm to the premises at
which the victim resides, to the real property on which that premises is
located, or to any personal property located on that premises, or as a result
of an offense committed under subsection (a)(2) of this section, or an offense
committed under subsection (a)(3) of this section based on a violation of
subsection (a)(2) of this section, a third person induced by the offender’s
posted message caused serious physical harm to that premises, that real
property, or any personal property on that premises.
         I.   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been determined
to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as manifested by
evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior, evidence of then-
recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of violent behavior and
serious physical harm, or other evidence of then-present dangerousness.
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a public
children services agency or a private child placing agency and the offense
relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties, or, if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that
prior offense was an officer or employee of a public children services agency
or private child placing agency, and that prior offense related to the
officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official
responsibilities, or duties, menacing by stalking is a felony and shall be
prosecuted under appropriate State law.
   (c)   Ohio R.C. 2919.271 applies in relation to a defendant charged with a
violation of this section.
   (d)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Pattern of conduct” means two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, or two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, directed at one or more persons employed by or
belonging to the same corporation, association, or other organization. Actions
or incidents that prevent, obstruct, or delay the performance by a public
official, firefighter, rescuer, emergency medical services person, or emergency
facility person of any authorized act within the public official’s,
firefighter’s, rescuer’s, emergency medical services person’s, or emergency
facility person’s official capacity, or the posting of messages, use of
intentionally written or verbal graphic gestures, or receipt of information or
data through the use of any form of written communication or an electronic
method of remotely transferring information, including, but not limited to, a
computer, computer network, computer program, computer system, or
telecommunications device, may constitute a “pattern of conduct”.
      (2)   “Mental distress” means any of the following:
         A.   Any mental illness or condition that involves some temporary
substantial incapacity;
         B.   Any mental illness or condition that would normally require
psychiatric treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health
services, whether or not any person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services.
      (3)   “Emergency medical services person” is the singular of “emergency
medical services personnel” as defined in Ohio R.C. 2133.21.
      (4)   “Emergency facility person” is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in Ohio R.C. 2909.04.
      (5)   “Public official” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2921.01.
      (6)   “Computer”, “computer network”, “computer program”, “computer
system” and “telecommunications device” have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C.
2913.01.
      (7)   “Post a message” means transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating or otherwise communicating, or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate or otherwise communication, any message or
information, whether truthful or untruthful, about an individual, and whether
done under one’s own name, under the name of another, or while impersonating
another.
      (8)   “Third person” means, in relation to conduct as described in
subsection (a)(2) of this section, an individual who is neither the offender
nor the victim of the conduct.
      (9)   “Sexual motivation” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2971.01.
      (10)   “Organization” includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
      (11)   “Family or household member” means any of the following:
         A.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
person against whom the act prohibited in subsection (a)(1) of this section is
committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the person;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the person, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the person;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the person, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
person.
         B.   The natural parent of any child of whom the person against whom
the act prohibited in subsection (a)(1) of this section is committed is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      (12)   “Person living as a spouse” means a person who is living or has
lived with the person against whom the act prohibited in subsection (a)(1) of
this section is committed in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise
is cohabiting with that person, or who otherwise has cohabited with the person
within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in
question.
   (e)   The Municipality does not need to prove in a prosecution under this
section that a person requested or received psychiatric treatment,
psychological treatment, or other mental health services in order to show that
the person was caused mental distress as described in subsection (d)(2)B. of
this section.
   (f)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that it believes is, or
will be sent, in violation of this section.
      (2)   Subsection (f)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative
duty for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic
method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to
block the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that
it believes is, or will be sent, in violation of this section except as
otherwise provided by law.
      (3)   Subsection (f)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature. (ORC 2903.211)
537.06 MENACING.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of the
offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association or other
organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly place or attempt to place another in
reasonable fear of physical harm or death by displaying a deadly weapon,
regardless of whether the deadly weapon displayed is operable or inoperable, if
either of the following applies:
         A.   The other person is an emergency service responder, the person
knows or reasonably should know that the other person is an emergency service
responder, and it is the person’s specific purpose to engage in the specified
conduct against an emergency service responder.
         B.   The other person is a family or household member or co-worker of
an emergency service responder, the person knows or reasonably should know that
the other person is a family or household member or co-worker of an emergency
service responder, and it is the person’s specific purpose to engage in the
specified conduct against a family or household member or co- worker of an
emergency service responder.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of menacing. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, menacing is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a public
children services agency or a private child placing agency and the offense
relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties or if the victim of the offense is an
emergency service responder in the performance of the responder’s official
duties, menacing is one of the following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (a)(2)B. of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or private child placing agency
or an emergency service responder, and that prior offense related to the
officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official
responsibilities or duties or to the responder’s performance of the responder’s
official duties, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (c)   A prosecution for a violation of subsection (a) of this section does
not preclude a prosecution of a violation of any other section of the Ohio
Revised Code. One or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of behavior that
can be prosecuted under subsection (a) of this section or any other section of
the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under subsection (a) of this section,
the other section of the Ohio Revised Code, or both sections. However, if an
offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of subsection (a) of
this section and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of Ohio
R.C. 2903.13, or any substantially similar municipal ordinance, based on the
same conduct involving the same victim that was the basis of the violation of
subsection (a) of this section, the offenses are allied offenses of similar
import under Ohio R.C. 2941.25.
   (d)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Co-worker” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2903.13.
      (2)   “Emergency service responder” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
2903.13.
      (3)   “Family or household member” have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C.
2903.13.
      (4)   “Organization” includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
         (ORC 2903.22)
537.07 ENDANGERING CHILDREN.
   (a)   No person, who is the parent, guardian, custodian, person having
custody or control, or person in loco parentis of a child under eighteen years
of age or a child with a mental or physical disability under twenty-one years
of age, shall create a substantial risk to the health or safety of the child,
by violating a duty of care, protection or support. It is not a violation of a
duty of care, protection or support under this subsection when the parent,
guardian, custodian or person having custody or control of a child treats the
physical or mental illness or disability of the child by spiritual means
through prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious
body.
   (b)   No person shall abuse a child under eighteen years of age or a child
with a mental or physical disability under twenty-one years of age.
   (c)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle in violation of Section
333.01(a) of the Traffic Code when one or more children under eighteen years of
age are in the vehicle. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a person
may be convicted at the same trial or proceeding of a violation of subsection
(c) hereof and a violation of Section
333.01(a) of the Traffic Code that constitutes the basis of the charge of the
violation of subsection (c) hereof. For purposes of Ohio R.C. 4511.191 to
4511.197 and all related provisions of law, a person arrested for a violation
of subsection (c) hereof shall be considered to be under arrest for operating a
vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or for operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      (2)   As used in subsection (c) hereof:
         A.   “Controlled substance” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
3719.01.
         B.   "Vehicle" has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4511.01.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of endangering children.
      (1)   Whoever violates subsection (a) or (b) hereof is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the child involved, or if the offender previously has been convicted of
an offense under this section, Ohio R.C. 2919.22 or of any offense involving
neglect, abandonment, contributing to the delinquency of or physical abuse of a
child, endangering children is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate State law.
      (2)   Whoever violates subsection (c) hereof is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree. Endangering children is a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate State law if either of the following applies:
         A.   The violation results in serious physical harm to the child
involved or the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under Ohio
R.C. 2919.22 or any offense involving neglect, abandonment, contributing to the
delinquency of, or physical abuse of a child.
         B.   The violation results in serious physical harm to the child
involved and the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of Ohio
R.C. 2919.22(C) or subsection (c) hereof, Ohio R.C. 2903.06, or 2903.08,
Section 2903.07 as it existed prior to March 23, 2000, or Ohio R.C. 2903.04 in
a case in which the offender was subject to the sanctions described in division
(D) of that section.
      (3)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other sentence,
penalty, or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to subsection (d)(2)
hereof, or pursuant to any other provision of law, the court also may impose
upon the offender any of the sanctions provided under Ohio R.C. 2919.22(E)(5)
(d).
   (e)   (1)   If a person violates subsection (c) hereof and if, at the time
of the violation, there were two or more children under eighteen years of age
in the motor vehicle involved in the violation, the offender may be convicted
of a violation of subsection (c) hereof for each of the children, but the court
may sentence the offender for only one of the violations.
      (2)   A.   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
subsection (c) hereof but the person is not also convicted of and does not also
plead guilty to a separate charge charging the violation of Section
333.01(a) of the Traffic Code that was the basis of the charge of the violation
of subsection (c) hereof, both of the following apply:
            1.   For purposes of the provisions of the Traffic Code penalty
that set forth the penalties and sanctions for a violation of Section
333.01(a) of the Traffic Code, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the
violation of subsection (c) hereof shall not constitute a violation of Section
333.01(a) of the Traffic Code.
            2.   For purposes of any provision of law that refers to a
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of Section
333.01(a) of the Traffic Code and that is not described in subsection (e)
(2)A.1. hereof, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the violation of
subsection (c) hereof shall constitute a conviction of or plea of guilty to a
violation of Section
333.01(a) of the Traffic Code.
         B.   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
subsection (c) hereof and the person also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
separate charge charging the violation of Section
333.01(a) of the Traffic Code that was the basis of the charge of the violation
of subsection (c) hereof, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the violation
of subsection (c) hereof shall not constitute, for purposes of any provision of
law that refers to a conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of Section
333.01(a) of the Traffic Code, a conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation
of Section
333.01(a) of the Traffic Code. (ORC 2919.22)
537.08 UNLAWFUL RESTRAINT.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly restrain
another of the other person’s liberty.
   (b)   No person, without privilege to do so and with a sexual motivation,
shall knowingly restrain another of the other person’s liberty.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful restraint, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   As used in this section, “sexual motivation” has the same meaning as
in Ohio R.C. 2971.01. (ORC 2905.03)
537.09 COERCION.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to coerce another into taking or refraining
from action concerning which the other person has a legal freedom of choice,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Threaten to commit any offense;
      (2)   Utter or threaten any calumny against any person;
      (3)   Expose or threaten to expose any matter tending to subject any
person to hatred, contempt or ridicule, to damage any person’s personal or
business repute, or to impair any person’s credit;
      (4)   Institute or threaten criminal proceedings against any person;
      (5)   Take or withhold, or threaten to take or withhold official action,
or cause or threaten to cause official action to be taken or withheld.
   (b)   Subsections (a)(4) and (5) hereof shall not be construed to prohibit a
prosecutor or court from doing any of the following in good faith and in the
interest of justice:
      (1)   Offering or agreeing to grant, or granting immunity from
prosecution pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2945.44;
      (2)   In return for a plea of guilty to one or more offenses charged or
to one or more other or lesser offenses, or in return for the testimony of the
accused in a case to which the accused is not a party, offering or agreeing to
dismiss, or dismissing one or more charges pending against an accused, or
offering or agreeing to impose, or imposing a certain sentence or modification
of sentence;
      (3)   Imposing community control sanction on certain conditions,
including without limitation requiring the offender to make restitution or
redress to the victim of the offense.
   (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under subsection (a)(3), (4)
or (5) hereof that the actor's conduct was a reasonable response to the
circumstances that occasioned it, and that the actor’s purpose was limited to
any of the following:
      (1)   Compelling another to refrain from misconduct or to desist from
further misconduct;
      (2)   Preventing or redressing a wrong or injustice;
      (3)   Preventing another from taking action for which the actor
reasonably believed the other person to be disqualified;
      (4)   Compelling another to take action that the actor reasonably
believed the other person to be under a duty to take.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of coercion, a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (e)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Threat" includes a direct threat and a threat by innuendo.
      (2)   “Community control sanction” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
2929.01. (ORC 2905.12)
537.10 TELECOMMUNICATION HARASSMENT.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit telecommunication to be made from a
telecommunications device under the person’s control, to another, if the caller
does any of the following:
      (1)   Makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass, intimidate, or
abuse, any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests, or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates Ohio R.C. 2903.21;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient’s family, or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides, or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near
or in, has the responsibility of protecting, or insures the property that will
be destroyed or damaged;
      (5)   Knowingly makes the telecommunication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient or another
person at those premises previously has told the caller not to make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any person at those premises.
      (6)   Knowingly makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal to
the recipient of the telecommunication that is threatening, intimidating,
menacing, coercive, or obscene with the intent to abuse, threaten or harass the
recipient;
      (7)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly interrupts the
telecommunication service of any person;
      (8)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly transmits to any
person, regardless of whether the telecommunication is heard in its entirety,
any file, document or other communication that prevents that person from using
the person’s telephone service or electronic communication device;
      (9)   Knowingly makes any false statement concerning the death, injury,
illness, disfigurement, reputation, indecent conduct, or criminal conduct of
the recipient of the telecommunication or family or household member of the
recipient with purpose to abuse, threaten, intimidate, or harass the recipient;
      (10)   Knowingly incites another person through a telecommunication or
other means to harass or participate in the harassment of a person;
      (11)   Knowingly alarms the recipient by making a telecommunication
without a lawful purpose at an hour or hours known to be inconvenient to the
recipient and in an offensive or repetitive manner.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication, or
permit a telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under
the person’s control, with purpose to abuse, threaten, or harass another
person.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly post a text or audio statement or an
image on an internet web site or web page for the purpose of abusing,
threatening, or harassing another person.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of telecommunication
harassment.
      (2)   A violation of subsections (a)(1), (2), (3), (5), (6), (7), (8),
(9), (10), or (11) or (b) hereof is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense. Each subsequent offense is a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate State law.
      (3)   Whoever violates subsection (a)(4) hereof is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree for a first offense. For each subsequent
offense or if a violation of subsection (a)(4) hereof results in economic harm
of one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more, a violation of subsection (a)(4)
hereof is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
   (d)   No cause of action may be asserted in any court of this State against
any provider of a telecommunications service, interactive computer service as
defined in Section 230 of Title 47 of the United States Code, or information
service, or against any officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunication
service, interactive computer service as defined in Section 230 of Title 47 of
the United States Code, or information service, for any injury, death, or loss
to person or property that allegedly arises out of the provider’s, officer’s,
employee’s, or agent’s provision of information, facilities, or assistance in
accordance with the terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the
investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation of this section. A
provider of a telecommunications service, interactive computer service as
defined in Section 230 of Title 47 of the United States Code, or information
service, or an officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service,
interactive computer service as defined in Section 230 of Title 47 of the
United States Code, of information service, is immune from any civil or
criminal liability for injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly arises out of the provider’s, officer’s, employee’s, or agent’s
provision of information, facilities, or assistance in accordance with the
terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the investigation or
prosecution of an alleged violation of this section.
   (e)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electric method of remotely
transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be liable
for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that the person believes
is, or will be sent, in violation of this section.
      (2)   Subsection (e)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative
duty for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic
method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to
block the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that
it believes is, or will be sent, in violation of this section except as
otherwise provided by law.
      (3)   Subsection (e)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (4)   A provider or user of an interactive computer service, as defined
in Section 230 of Title 47 of the United States Code, shall neither be treated
as the publisher or speaker of any information provided by another information
content provider, as defined in Section 230 of Title 47 of the United States
Code, nor held civilly or criminally liable for the creation or development of
information provided by another information content provider, as defined in
Section 230 of Title 47 of the United States Code. Nothing in this subsection
shall be construed to protect a person from liability to the extent that the
person developed or created any content in violation of this section.
   (f)   Subsections (a)(5) to (11) and (b)(2) of this section do not apply to
a person who, while employed or contracted by a newspaper, magazine, press
association, news agency, news wire service, cable channel or cable operator,
or radio or television station, is gathering, processing, transmitting,
compiling, editing or disseminating information for the general public, within
the scope of the person’s employment in that capacity or the person’s
contractual authority in that capacity.
   (g)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Economic harm” means all direct, incidental, and consequential
pecuniary harm suffered by a victim as a result of criminal conduct. “Economic
harm” includes, but is not limited to, all of the following:
   A.   All wages, salaries, or other compensation lost as a result of the
criminal conduct;
         B.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
   C.   The overhead costs incurred for the time that a business is shut down
as a result of the criminal conduct;
   D.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was damaged
as a result of the criminal conduct.
      (2)   “Caller” means the person described in subsection (a) hereof who
makes or causes to be made a telecommunication or who permits a
telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under that
person’s control.
      (3)   “Telecommunication” and “telecommunications device” have the same
meanings as in Ohio R.C. 2913.01.
      (4)   “Sexual activity” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2907.01.
      (5)   “Family or household member” means any of the following:
         A.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in
subsection (a)(9) of this section is committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the recipient;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the recipient, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the recipient;
            3..   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse,
or former spouse of the recipient, or anther person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
recipient.
         B.   The natural parent of any child of whom the recipient of the
telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in subsection (a)(9) of this
section is committed is the other natural parent or is the putative other
natural parent.
      (6)   “Person living as a spouse” means a person who is living or has
lived with the recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act
prohibited in subsection (a)(9) of this section is committed in a common law
marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with the recipient, or who
otherwise has cohabited with the recipient within five years prior to the date
of the alleged commission of the act in question.
      (7)   “Cable operator” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 1332.21.
   (h)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication call to a debtor that is in compliance with the “Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act”, 91 Stat. 874 (1977), 15 U.S.C. 1692, as amended, or
the “Telephone Consumer Protection Act”, 105 Stat. 2395 (1991), 47 U.S.C. 227,
as amended. (ORC 2917.21)
537.11 THREATENING OR HARASSING TELEPHONE CALLS.
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Former Ohio R.C. 4931.31 from which Section 537.11 was
derived was repealed by Senate Bill 162, effective September 13, 2010. See now
Section
537.10 “Telecommunication Harassment”.)
537.12 MISUSE OF 9-1-1 SYSTEM.
   (a)   “9-1-1 system” means a system through which individuals can request
emergency service using the access number 9-1-1. (ORC 128.01(A))
   (b)   No person shall knowingly use the telephone number of the 9-1-1 system
established under Ohio R.C. Chapter 128 to report an emergency if he knows that
no emergency exists.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly use a 9-1-1 system for a purpose other than
obtaining emergency service.
   (d)   No person shall disclose or use any information concerning telephone
numbers, addresses, or names obtained from the data base that serves the public
safety answering point of a 9-1-1 system established under Ohio R.C. Chapter
128, except for any of the following purposes or under any of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   For the purpose of the 9-1-1 system;
      (2)   For the purpose of responding to an emergency call to an emergency
service provider;
      (3)   In the circumstance of the inadvertent disclosure of such
information due solely to technology of the wireline telephone network portion
of the 9-1-1 system not allowing access to the data base to be restricted to 9-
1-1 specific answering lines at a public safety answering point;
      (4)   In the circumstance of access to a data base being given by a
telephone company that is a wireline service provider to a public utility or
municipal utility in handling customer calls in times of public emergency or
service outages. The charge, terms, and conditions for the disclosure or use of
such information for the purpose of such access to a data base shall be subject
to the jurisdiction of the steering committee.
      (5)   In the circumstance of access to a data base given by a telephone
company that is a wireline service provider to a state and local government in
warning of a public emergency, as determined by the steering committee. The
charge, terms, and conditions for the disclosure or use of that information for
the purpose of access to a data base is subject to the jurisdiction of the
steering committee.
         (ORC 128.32)
   (e)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (b) hereof is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates subsection (c) or (d) hereof is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense. For each subsequent
offense such person is guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate State law. (ORC 128.99)
537.13 ADULTERATING OF OR FURNISHING ADULTERATED FOOD OR CONFECTION.
   (a)   No person shall do either of the following, knowingly or having
reasonable cause to believe that any person may suffer physical harm or be
seriously inconvenienced or annoyed thereby:
      (1)   Place a pin, needle, razor blade, glass, laxative, drug of abuse,
or other harmful or hazardous object or substance in any food or confection;
      (2)   Furnish to any person any food or confection which has been
adulterated in violation of subsection (a)(1) hereof. (ORC 3716.11)
   (b)    Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC 3716.99(C))
537.14 DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to a
family or household member.
   (b)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to a family or
household member.
   (c)   No person, by threat of force, shall knowingly cause a family or
household member to believe that the offender will cause imminent physical harm
to the family or household member.
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of domestic violence.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d)(3) to (5) of this
section, a violation of subsection (c) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree, and a violation of subsection (a) or (b) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d)(4) of this section,
if the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of domestic
violence, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or the United States that is substantially similar to
domestic violence, a violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.14, 2909.06, 2909.07, 2911.12,
2911.211, or 2919.22 if the victim of the violation was a family or household
member at the time of the violation, a violation of an existing or former
municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the United States that
is substantially similar to any of those sections if the victim of the
violation was a family or household member at the time of the commission of the
violation, or any offense of violence if the victim of the offense was a family
or household member at the time of the commission of the offense, a violation
of subsection (a) or (b) of this section is a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate state law, and a violation of subsection (c) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted
of two or more offenses of domestic violence or two or more violations or
offenses of the type described in subsection (d)(3) of this section involving a
person who was a family or household member at the time of the violations or
offenses, a violation of subsection (a) or (b) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of subsection (c) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two or more offenses of domestic
violence or two or more violations or offenses of the type described in
subsection (d)(3) of this section involving a person who was a family or
household member at the time of the violations or offenses, and the offender
knew that the victim of the violation was pregnant at the time of the
violation, a violation of subsection (a) or (b) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d)(3) or (4) of this
section, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was pregnant at
the time of the violation, a violation of subsection (a) or (b) of this section
is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law, and a
violation of subsection (c) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
   (e)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no court or unit
of local government shall charge any fee, cost, deposit, or money in connection
with the filing of charges against a person alleging that the person violated
this section or in connection with the prosecution of any charges so filed.
   (f)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Family or household member" means any of the following:
         A.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
offender:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse or a former spouse of
the offender;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent or a child of the offender, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender;
            3.   A parent, or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse,
or former spouse of the offender; or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse or former spouse of the
offender.
         B.   The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the other
natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      (2)   "Person living as a spouse" means a person who is living or has
lived with the offender in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is
cohabiting with the offender, or who otherwise has cohabited with the offender
within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in
question. (ORC 2919.25)
   (g)   The same relief available under the Ohio Revised Code for filing a
complaint for violation of Ohio R.C. 2919.25 shall be available for filing a
complaint for violation of this section.
537.15 TEMPORARY PROTECTION ORDER.
   (a)   No person shall recklessly violate the terms of any of the following:
      (1)   A protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 2919.26 or 3113.31;
      (2)   A protection order issued pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2151.34, 2903.213
or 2903.214;
      (3)   A protection order issued by a court of another state.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of violating a
protection order.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (b)(3) of this section,
violating a protection order is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Violating a protection order is a felony and shall be prosecuted
under State law if the offender previously has been convicted of, pleaded
guilty to, or been adjudicated a delinquent child for any of the following:
         A.   A violation of a protection order issued or consent agreement
approved pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2151.34, 2903.213, 2903.214, 2919.26, or
3113.31;
         B.   Two or more violations of Ohio R.C. 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22,
or 2911.211 or any combination of those offenses that involved the same person
who is the subject of the protection order or consent agreement;
         C.   One or more violations of this section.
      (4)   If the offender violates a protection order or consent agreement
while committing a felony offense, violating a protection order is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the protection order violated by the offender was an order
issued pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2151.34 or 2903.214 that required electronic
monitoring of the offender pursuant to that section, the court may require in
addition to any other sentence imposed upon the offender that the offender be
electronically monitored for a period not exceeding five years by a law
enforcement agency designated by the court. If the court requires under this
subsection that the offender be electronically monitored, unless the court
determines that the offender is indigent, the court shall order that the
offender pay the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device
and the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device.
   (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under subsection (a)(3) of
this section that the protection order issued by a court of another state does
not comply with the requirements specified in 18 U.S.C. 2265(b) for a
protection order that must be accorded full faith and credit by a court of this
State or that it is not entitled to full faith and credit under 18 U.S.C. 2265
(c).
   (d)   In a prosecution for a violation of this section, it is not necessary
for the prosecution to prove that the protection order or consent agreement was
served on the defendant if the prosecution proves that the defendant was shown
the protection order or consent agreement or a copy of either or a judge,
magistrate, or law enforcement officer informed the defendant that a protection
order or consent agreement had been issued, and proves that the defendant
recklessly violated the terms of the order or agreement.
   (e)   As used in this section, “protection order issued by a court of
another state” means an injunction or another order issued by a criminal court
of another state for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or
harassment against, contact or communication with, or physical proximity to
another person, including a temporary order, and means an injunction or order
of that nature issued by a civil court of another state, including a temporary
order and a final order issued in an independent action or as a pendente lite
order in a proceeding for other relief, if the court issued it in response to a
complaint, petition or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking
protection. “Protection order issued by a court of another state” does not
include an order for support or for custody of a child. (ORC 2919.27)
537.16 ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTES, OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS, OR ALTERNATE
NICOTINE PRODUCTS; TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (a)   Illegal Distribution of Cigarettes, Other Tobacco Products, or
Alternative Nicotine Products.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         A.   “Age verification.” A service provided by an independent third
party (other than a manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or
retailer of cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
or papers used to roll cigarettes) that compares information available from a
commercially available database, or aggregate of databases, that regularly are
used by government and businesses for the purpose of age and identity
verification to personal information provided during an internet sale or other
remote method of sale to establish that the purchaser is twenty-one years of
age or older.
         B.   “Alternative nicotine product.”
            1.   Subject to subsection (a)(1)B.2. of this section, an
electronic smoking device, vapor product, or any other product or device that
consists of or contains nicotine that can be ingested into the body by any
means, including, but not limited to, chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving,
or inhaling.
            2.   The phrase does not include any of the following:
               a.   Any cigarette or other tobacco product;
               b.   Any product that is a “drug” as that term is defined in 21
U.S.C. 321(g)(1);
               c.   Any product that is a “device” as that term is defined in
21 U.S.C. 321(h);
               d.   Any product that is a “combination product” as described in
21 U.S.C. 353(g).
         C.   “Cigarette.” Includes clove cigarettes and hand-rolled
cigarettes.
         D.   “Distribute.” Means to furnish, give, or provide cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to the ultimate consumer of the cigarettes, other tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes.
         E.   “Electronic smoking device.” Means any device that can be used to
deliver aerosolized or vaporized nicotine or any other substance to the person
inhaling from the device including an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic hookah, vaping pen, or electronic pipe. The phrase includes any
component, part, or accessory of such a device, whether or not sold separately,
and includes any substance intended to be aerosolized or vaporized during the
use of the device. The phrase does not include any product that is a drug,
device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described in 21
U.S.C. 321 and 353(g).
         F.   “Proof of age.” Means a driver’s license, a commercial driver’s
license, a military identification card, a passport, or an identification card
issued under Ohio R.C. 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows that a person is twenty-
one years of age or older.
         G.   “Tobacco product.” Means any product that is made or derived from
tobacco or that contains any form of nicotine, if it is intended for human
consumption or is likely to be consumed, whether smoked, heated, chewed,
absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, or ingested by any other means, including, but
not limited to, a cigarette, an electronic smoking device, a cigar, pipe
tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff, or snus. The phrase also means any component
or accessory used in the consumption of a tobacco product, such as filters,
rolling papers, pipes, blunt or hemp wraps, and liquids used in electronic
smoking devices, whether or not they contain nicotine. The phrase does not
include any product that is a drug, device, or combination product, as those
terms are defined or described in 21 U.S.C. 321 and 353(g).
         H.   “Vapor product.” Means a product, other than a cigarette or other
tobacco product as defined in Ohio R.C. Chapter 5743, that contains or is made
or derived from nicotine and that is intended and marketed for human
consumption, including by smoking, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing. The phrase
includes any component, part, or additive that is intended for use in an
electronic smoking device, a mechanical heating element, battery, or electronic
circuit and is used to deliver the product. The phrase does not include any
product that is a drug, device, or combination product, as those terms are
defined or described in 21 U.S.C. 321 and 353(g). The phrase includes any
product containing nicotine, regardless of concentration.
         I.   “Vending machine.” Has the same meaning as “coin machine” in Ohio
R.C. 2913.01.
      (2)   No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes, no agent, employee, or representative of a
manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes, and no other person shall do any of the following:
         A.   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes:
            1.   To any person under twenty-one years of age; or
            2.   Without first verifying proof of age.
         B.   Give away, sell, or distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes in
any place that does not have posted in a conspicuous place a legibly printed
sign in letters at least one-half inch high stating that giving, selling, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to a person under twenty-one years
of age is prohibited by law;
         C.   Knowingly furnish any false information regarding the name, age,
or other identification of any person under twenty-one years of age with
purpose to obtain cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes for that person;
         D.   Manufacture, sell, or distribute in this state any pack or other
container of cigarettes containing fewer than twenty cigarettes or any package
of roll-your-own tobacco containing less than six-tenths of one ounce of
tobacco;
         E.   Sell cigarettes or alternative nicotine products in a smaller
quantity than that placed in the pack or other container by the manufacturer;
         F.   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute alternative nicotine
products, papers used to roll cigarettes, or tobacco products other than
cigarettes over the internet or through another remote method without age
verification.
         G.   Allow an employee under eighteen years of age to sell any tobacco
product;
         H.   Give away or otherwise distribute free samples of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or coupons redeemable
for cigarettes, other tobacco products or alternative tobacco products.
      (3)   No person shall sell or offer to sell cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products by or from a vending machine, except
in the following locations:
         A.   An area within a factory, business, office, or other place not
open to the general public;
         B.   An area to which persons under twenty-one years of age are not
generally permitted access;
         C.   Any other place not identified in subsection (a)(3)A. or B. of
this section, upon all of the following conditions:
            1.   The vending machine is located within the immediate vicinity,
plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place, or an
employee of that person, so that all cigarettes, other tobacco product, and
alternative nicotine product purchases from the vending machine will be readily
observed by the person who owns or operates the place or an employee of that
person. For the purpose of this section, a vending machine located in any
unmonitored area, including an unmonitored coatroom, restroom, hallway, or
outer waiting area, shall not be considered located within the immediate
vicinity, plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place,
or an employee of that person.
            2.   The vending machine is inaccessible to the public when the
place is closed.
            3.   A clearly visible notice is posted in the area where the
vending machine is located that states the following in letters that are
legibly printed and at least one-half inch high: “It is illegal for any person
under the age of twenty-one to purchase tobacco or alternative nicotine
products.”
      (4)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under subsection
(a)(2)A. of this section:
         A.   The person under twenty-one years of age was accompanied by a
parent, spouse who is twenty-one years of age or older, or legal guardian of
the person under twenty-one years of age.
         B.   The person who gave, sold, or distributed cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to a person under twenty-one years of age under subsection (a)(2)A.
of this section is a parent, spouse who is twenty- one years of age or older,
or legal guardian of the person under twenty-one years of age.
      (5)    A.   It is not a violation of subsection (a)(2)A. or B. of this
section for a person to give or otherwise distribute to a person under twenty-
one years of age cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes while the person under twenty-one
years of age is participating in a research protocol if all of the following
apply:
            1.    The parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the person under
twenty-one years of age has consented in writing to the person under twenty-one
years of age participating in the research protocol.
            2.    An institutional human subjects protection review board, or
an equivalent entity, has approved the research protocol.
            3.    The person under twenty-one years of age is participating in
the research protocol at the facility or location specified in the research
protocol.
         B.   It is not a violation of subsection (a)(2)A. or B. of this
section for an employer to permit an employee eighteen, nineteen or twenty
years of age to sell a tobacco product.
      (6)    A.   No delivery service shall accept from, transport or deliver
to, or allow pick-up by, a person under twenty-one years of age with respect to
any of the following:
            1.    Alternative nicotine products;
            2.    Papers used to roll cigarettes;
            3.    Tobacco products other than cigarettes.
         B.   A delivery service shall require proof of age as a condition of
accepting, transporting, delivering, or allowing pickup of the items described
in subsections (a)(6)A1. to 3. of this section.
      (7)    Whoever violates subsections (a)(2)A., B., D., E., F., G., H., (3)
or (6) of this section is guilty of illegal distribution of cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (8)   A.   Notwithstanding Ohio R.C. 2929.28(A)(2), if an offender is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of subsection (a)(2)A. of this
section, the court shall impose a fine in the following amount:
            1.    Except as otherwise provided in subsections (a)(8)A.2., (a)
(8)A.3., (a)(8)A.4., and (a)(8)A.5. of this section, not more than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00);
            2.    Except as otherwise provided in subsections (a)(8)A.3., (a)
(8)A.4., and (a)(8)A.5. of this section, if an offender has previously been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of subsection (a)(2)A. of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00);
            3.    Except as otherwise provided in subsections (a)(8)A.4. and
(a)(8)A.5. of this section, if an offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to two or more violations of subsection (a)(2)A. of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, five hundred
dollars ($500.00);
            4.    Except as otherwise provided in subsection (a)(8)A.5. of this
section, if an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
three or more violations of subsection (a)(2)A. of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, one thousand dollars
($1,000.00);
            5.    If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to four or more violations of subsection (a)(2)A. of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500),
         B.   The financial sanctions required by subsection (a)(8)A. of this
section are in lieu of the financial sanctions described in Ohio R.C. 2929.28
(A)(2), but are in addition to any other sanctions or penalties that may apply
to the offender, including other financial sanctions under that section or a
jail term under Ohio R.C. 2929.24.
      (9)    Whoever violates subsection (a)(2)C. of this section is guilty of
permitting a person under twenty-one years of age to use cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, permitting a person under twenty-one years of age to
use cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of subsection (a)(2)C. of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, permitting a person under twenty-
one years of age to use cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (10)    Any cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes that are given, sold, or otherwise
distributed to a person under twenty-one years of age in violation of this
section and that are used, possessed, purchased, or received by a person under
twenty- one years of age in violation of Ohio R.C. 2151.87 are subject to
seizure and forfeiture as contraband under Ohio R.C. Chapter 2981.
         (ORC 2927.02)
   (b)   Transaction Scan.
      (1)   For the purpose of this subsection (b) and subsection (c) of this
section, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
         A.   “Card holder.” Any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products from a seller, agent or employee.
         B.   “Identification card.” An identification card issued under Ohio
R.C. 4507.50 to 4507.52.
         C.   “Seller.” A seller of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products and includes any person whose gift of or other
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products is subject to the prohibitions of subsection (a) of this section.
         D.   “Transaction scan.” The process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks, by means of a transaction scan device, the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card
that is presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
         E.   “Transaction scan device.” Any commercial device or combination
of devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
      (2)   A.   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away or otherwise distributing
to the card holder cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products.
         B.   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under subsection (b)(2)A. of this section fails to match the information
printed on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card
presented by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the
information so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent
or employee of the seller shall sell, give away or otherwise distribute any
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products to the
card holder.
         C.   Subsection (b)(2)A. of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device, as a condition for selling, giving away or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products to the person presenting the document.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under Ohio R.C.
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
subsection (b) and subsection (c) of this section.
      (4)   A.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
            1.   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder;
            2.   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
         B.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under subsection (b)(4)A. of this section, except for
purposes of subsection (c) of this section.
         C.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
subsection (c)(2)A. of this section.
         D.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by subsection (c) of this
section or another section of these Codified Ordinances or the Ohio Revised
Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this subsection (b) or subsection (c) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable local, state or federal laws or rules
governing the sale, giving away or other distribution of cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates subsection (b)(2)B. or (b)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal tobacco product or alternative nicotine
product transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil
penalty of up to one thousand dollars ($1,000) for each violation. The Clerk of
the Court shall pay each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for
deposit into the County Treasury. (ORC 2927.021)
   (c)   Affirmative Defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of subsection (a) of this section in which
the age of the purchaser or other recipient of cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is an element of the alleged
violation, if the seller, agent or employee raises and proves as an affirmative
defense that all of the following occurred:
         A.   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products presented a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or an identification card.
         B.   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that the
license or card was valid.
         C.   The cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products were sold, given away or otherwise distributed to the card holder in
reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and the completed
transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by subsection (c)(1) of this
section, the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of
subsection (a) of this section shall consider any written policy that the
seller has adopted and implemented and that is intended to prevent violations
of subsection (a) of this section. For purposes of subsection (c)(1)C. of this
section, the trier of fact shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the
identification presented and the completed transaction scan may require a
seller or an agent or employee of a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to
determine, and that the use of a transaction scan device does not excuse a
seller or an agent or employee of a seller from exercising reasonable diligence
to determine, the following:
         A.   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away or otherwise distributes cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is twenty-one years of age or older;
         B.   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
subsection (c)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or
a Deputy Registrar who issued an identification card under Ohio R.C. 4507.50 to
4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of that
issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
         (ORC 2927.022)
   (d)   Shipment of Tobacco Products.
      (1)   As used in this subsection (d):
         A.   “Authorized recipient of tobacco products” means:
            1.    In the case of cigarettes, a person who is:
               a.    Licensed as a cigarette wholesale dealer under Ohio R.C.
5743.15;
               b.    Licensed as a retail dealer as long as the person
purchases cigarettes with the appropriate tax stamp affixed;
               c.    An export warehouse proprietor as defined in Internal
Revenue Code Section 5702;
               d.    An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C.
Section 1311 or 19 U.S.C. Section 1555;
               e.    An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government
or of this state acting in the person's official capacity;
               f.    A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state;
               g.    A person having a consent for consumer shipment issued by
the Ohio Tax Commissioner under Ohio R.C. 5743.71.
            2.    In the case of electronic smoking devices or vapor products,
a person who is:
               a.    Licensed as a distributor of tobacco or vapor products
under Ohio R.C. 5743.61;
               b.    A retail dealer of vapor products, as defined in Ohio R.C.
5741.01(C)(3), that is not licensed as a vapor distributor, as long as the tax
levied by Ohio R.C. 5743.51, 5743.62, or 5743.63, as applicable, has been paid;
               c.    An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C.
Section 1311 or 19 U.S.C. Section 1555;
               d.    An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government
or of this state acting in the person's official capacity;
               e.    A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state.
         B.   “Motor Carrier,” Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4923.01.
      (2)    The purpose of this section is to prevent the sale of cigarettes,
electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to minors and to ensure
compliance with the Master Settlement Agreement, as defined in Ohio R.C.
1346.01.
      (3)    A.   No person shall cause to be shipped any cigarettes,
electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in this
municipality other than an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
         B.   No motor carrier, or other person shall knowingly transport
cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in
this municipality that the carrier or other person reasonably believes is not
an authorized recipient of tobacco products. If cigarettes, electronic smoking
devices, and vapor products are transported to a home or residence, it shall be
presumed that the motor carrier, or other person knew that the person to whom
the cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products were delivered
was not an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
      (4)    No person engaged in the business of selling cigarettes,
electronic smoking devices, and vapor products who ships or causes to be
shipped cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any
person in this municipality in any container or wrapping other than the
original container or wrapping shall fail to plainly and visibly mark the
exterior of the container or wrapping in which the cigarettes, electronic
smoking devices, and vapor products are shipped with the words ”cigarettes”,
”electronic smoking devices”, or “vapor products”, as applicable.
      (5)   A court shall impose a fine of up to one thousand dollars ($1,000)
for each violation of subsection (d)(3)A., (d)(3)B. or (d)(4) of this section.
         (ORC 2927.023)
   (e)   Furnishing False Information to Obtain Tobacco Products.
      (1)   No person who is eighteen years of age or older but younger than
twenty- one years of age shall knowingly furnish false information concerning
that person’s name, age, or other identification for the purpose of obtaining
tobacco products.
      (2)   Whoever violates subsection (e)(1) of this section is guilty of
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, furnishing false information to obtain tobacco
products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of subsection (e)(1) of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products is a misdemeanor of the
third degree. (ORC 2927.024)
537.17 RESERVED.
   (Editor’s note: This section was formerly 537.17 Criminal Child Enticement,
based on Ohio R.C. 2905.05, Criminal Child Enticement. The Ohio Supreme Court
held that Ohio R.C. 2905.05(A) was unconstitutionally overbroad in violation of
the First Amendment. See State v. Romage, 138 Ohio St. 3d. 390 (2014).)
537.18 CONTRIBUTING TO UNRULINESS OR DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Delinquent child” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2152.02.
      (2)   “Unruly child” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2151.022.
   (b)   No person, including a parent, guardian or other custodian of a child,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to a child or a
ward of the juvenile court becoming an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (2)   Act in a way tending to cause a child or a ward of the juvenile
court to become an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (3)   Act in a way that contributes to an adjudication of the child as a
delinquent child based on the child’s violation of a court order adjudicating
the child an unruly child for being an habitual truant;
      (4)   If the person is the parent, guardian, or custodian of a child who
has the duties under Ohio R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950 to register, register a
new residence address, and periodically verify a residence address and, if
applicable, to send a notice of intent to reside, and if the child is not
emancipated, as defined in Ohio R.C. 2919.121, fail to ensure that the child
complies with those duties under Ohio R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of contributing to the
unruliness or delinquency of a child, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each
day of violation of this section is a separate offense. (ORC 2919.24)
537.19 HAZING.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Hazing” means doing any act or coercing another, including the
victim, to do any act of initiation into any student or other organization or
any act to continue or reinstate membership in or affiliation with any student
or other organization that causes or creates a substantial risk of causing
mental or physical harm to any person, including coercing another to consume
alcohol or a drug of abuse, as defined in Ohio R.C. 3719.011.
      (2)   “Organization” includes a national or international organization
with which a fraternity or sorority is affiliated.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization.
   (c)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another
when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs of abuse
resulting in serious physical harm to the other person.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs
of abuse resulting in serious physical harm to that person.
   (d)   Whoever violates subsections (b) or (c) of this section is guilty of
hazing. A violation of subsections (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the second degree. A violation of subsections (c)(1) or (c)(2)
of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. (ORC
2903.31)
   (e)   Reckless failure to immediately report knowledge of hazing.
      (1)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other public or private educational institution,
who is acting in an official and professional capacity shall recklessly fail to
immediately report the knowledge of hazing to a law enforcement agency in the
county in which the victim of hazing resides or in which the hazing is
occurring or has occurred.
      (2)   A violation of subsection (e)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree, except that the violation is a misdemeanor of the first
degree if the hazing causes serious physical harm.
         (ORC 2903.311(B), (C))
537.20 ILLEGAL USE OF A TRACKING DEVICE OR APPLICATION.
   (a)    As used in this section:
      (1)   “Business entity” means any form of corporation, partnership,
association, cooperative, joint venture, business trust, or sole proprietorship
that conducts business in this state.
      (2)   “Business of private investigation” has the same meaning as in Ohio
R.C. 4749.01.
      (3)   “Disabled adult” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2913.01.
      (4)   “Elderly person” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2913.01.
      (5)   “Electronic monitoring” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
2929.01.
      (6)   “Electronic monitoring device” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
2929.01.
      (7)   “Law enforcement agency” means any organization or unit comprised
of law enforcement officers, and also includes any federal or military law
enforcement agency.
      (8)   “Ohio Protection Order” means a protection order filed or issued or
a consent agreement approved pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2919.26 or 3113.31, a
protection order filed or issued pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2151.34, 2903.213, or
2903.214, or a no contact order issued as any of the following:
         A.   As part of a person’s sentence under a community control sanction
imposed under Ohio R.C. 2929.16, 2929.17, 2929.26, or 2929.27;
         B.   As a term or condition of a person’s release under Ohio R.C.
2929.20;
         C.   As a post-release control sanction imposed as a condition of a
person’s post-release control under Ohio R.C. 2967.28;
         D.   As a term of supervision for a person transferred to transitional
control under Ohio R.C. 2967.26;
         E.   As a term or condition of the intervention plan of a person
granted intervention in lieu of conviction under Ohio R.C. 2951.041.
      (9)   “Person” means an individual, but does not include a business
entity.
      (10)   “Private investigator” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
4749.01.
      (11)   “Protection order issued by a court of another state” has the same
meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2919.27.
      (12)   “Tracking application” means any software program that permits a
person to remotely determine or track the position or movement of another
person or another person’s property.
      (13)   “Tracking device” means an electronic or mechanical device that
permits a person to remotely determine or track the position or movement of
another person or another person’s property, including an electronic monitoring
device.
   
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d) of this section, no
person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)    Install a tracking device or tracking application on another
person’s property without the other person’s consent or cause a tracking device
or tracking application to track the position or movement of another person or
another person’s property without the other person’s consent;
      (2)    If the person installed a tracking device or tracking application
on another’s property with the other person’s consent and the other person
subsequently revokes that consent, fail to remove or ensure the removal of the
device or application after the other person revokes the consent.
   (c)   (1)    For purposes of this section, if a person has given consent for
another to install a tracking device or tracking application on the consenting
person’s property, it is presumed that the consenting person has revoked that
consent if any of the following applies:
         A.   The consenting person and the person to whom consent was given
are lawfully married and one of them files a complaint for divorce or a
petition for dissolution of marriage from the other. Not later than seventy-two
hours after being served with a complaint for divorce or a petition for
dissolution of marriage, the person to whom consent was given shall lawfully
uninstall or discontinue use of the tracking device or tracking application. If
the person to whom consent was given cannot lawfully uninstall or discontinue
use of the tracking device or tracking application, the person to whom consent
was given shall notify the court in which the complaint for divorce or the
petition for dissolution of marriage was filed in writing.
         B.   The consenting person or the person to whom consent was given
files an Ohio protection order against the other person or an Ohio protection
order is issued against the other person, and the person to be protected under
the order is the consenting person. Not later than seventy-two hours after
being served with the Ohio protection order, the person to whom consent was
given shall lawfully uninstall or discontinue use of the tracking device or
tracking application. If the person to whom consent was given cannot lawfully
uninstall or discontinue use of the tracking device or tracking application,
the person to whom consent was given shall notify the court that issued the
Ohio protection order in writing that
the person to whom consent was given has installed or is using a tracking
device or tracking application on the previously consenting person’s person or
the person’s property and cannot uninstall or discontinue its use without
violating the Ohio protection order.
      (2)    Revocation of consent under this subsection is effective upon the
service of the petition or motion or an Ohio protection order.
   
   (d)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)    A law enforcement officer, or any law enforcement agency, that
installs a tracking device or tracking application on another person’s property
or causes a tracking device or tracking application to track the position or
movement of another person or another person’s property as part of a criminal
investigation, or a probation officer, parole officer, or employee of the
department of rehabilitation and correction, a halfway house, or a community-
based correctional facility when engaged in the lawful performance of the
officer’s or employee’s official duties;
      (2)    A parent or legal guardian of a minor child who installs or uses a
tracking device or tracking application to track the minor child if any of the
following applies:
         A.   The parents or legal guardians of the child are lawfully married
to each other and are not separated or otherwise living apart, and either of
those parents or legal guardians consents to the installation of the tracking
device or tracking application;
         B.   The parent or legal guardian of the child is the sole surviving
parent or legal guardian of the child;
         C.   The parent or legal guardian of the child has sole custody of the
child;
         D.   The parents or legal guardians of the child are divorced,
separated, or otherwise living apart and neither parent has sole custody of the
child, and both consent to the installation of the tracking device or tracking
application;
         E.   The parents or legal guardians of the child are divorced,
separated, or otherwise living apart, neither parent has sole custody of the
child, and either only one parent consents to the installation of the tracking
device or tracking application or one parent revokes consent, if the consenting
parent only uses the tracking device or tracking application during that
parent’s parenting or custodial time and disables or removes the tracking
device or application during the nonconsenting parent’s parenting or custodial
time.
      (3)    A caregiver of an elderly person or disabled adult, if the elderly
person’s or disabled adult’s treating physician certifies that the installation
of a tracking device or tracking application onto the elderly person’s or
disabled adult’s property is necessary to ensure the safety of the elderly
person or disabled adult;
      (4)    A person acting in good faith on behalf of a business entity for a
legitimate business purpose, provided that this division does not apply to a
private investigator engaged in the business of private investigation on behalf
of another person;
      (5)    A.   A private investigator or other person licensed under Ohio
R.C. 4749.03, who is acting in the normal course of the investigator’s business
of private investigation on behalf of another person and who has the consent of
the owner of the property upon which the tracking device or tracking
application is installed, for the purpose of obtaining information with
reference to any of the following:
            1.    Criminal offenses committed, threatened, or suspected against
the United States, a territory of the United States, a state, or any person or
legal entity;
            2.    Locating an individual known to be a fugitive from justice;
            3.    Locating lost or stolen property or other assets that have
been awarded by the court;
            4.    Investigating claims related to workers’ compensation.
         B.   This subsection does not apply if the person on whose behalf the
private investigator is working is the subject of an Ohio protection order or a
protection order issued by a court of another state or if the private
investigator knows or reasonably should know that the person on whose behalf
the private investigator is working seeks the investigator’s services to aid in
the commission of a crime.
      (6)    An owner or lessee of a motor vehicle who installs, or directs the
installation of, a tracking device or tracking application on the vehicle
during the period of ownership or lease, if any of the following applies:
         A.   The tracking device or tracking application is removed before the
vehicle’s title is transferred or the vehicle’s lease expires;
         B.   The new owner of the vehicle, in the case of a sale, or the
lessor of the vehicle, in the case of an expired lease, consents in writing to
the non-removal of the tracking device or tracking application;
         C.   The owner of the vehicle at the time of the installation of the
tracking device or tracking application was the original manufacturer of the
vehicle.
      (7)    A person who installs a tracking device or application on property
in which the person has an ownership or contractual interest, unless the person
is the subject of a protective order and the property is likely to be used by
the person who obtained the protective order;
      (8)    A person or business entity that installs a tracking device or
tracking application on any fixed wing aircraft or rotorcraft operated or
managed by the person or business entity pursuant to 14 C.F.R. part 91 or part
135 to track the position or movement of the fixed wing aircraft or rotorcraft;
      (9)    A surety bail bond agent, or any employee or contractor of a
surety bail bond agent, that installs a tracking device or tracking application
on another person’s property or causes a tracking device or tracking
application to track the position or movement of another person or another
person’s property as part of the surety bail bond agent’s, employee’s, or
contractor’s official responsibilities or duties.
   (e)   For purposes of subsection (d)(1) of this section, a probation
officer, parole officer, or employee of the department of rehabilitation and
correction, a halfway house, or a community-based correctional facility is
engaged in the lawful performance of the officer’s or employee’s duties if both
of the following apply:
      (1)    The court or the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction
imposes electronic monitoring on a person.
      (2)    The officer or employee installs or uses an electronic monitoring
device on that person in accordance with the court’s or department’s imposition
of electronic monitoring of that person.
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal use of a tracking
device or application.
      (1)    Except as otherwise provided in subsection (f)(2) of this section,
illegal use of a tracking device or application is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)    Illegal use of a tracking device or application is a felony to be
prosecuted under state law if any of the following applies:
         A.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this section, Ohio R.C. 2903.216, or Ohio R.C. 2903.211 or
any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         B.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under Ohio R.C. 2903.213 or 2903.214,
regardless of whether the person to be protected under the order is the victim
of the offense or another person.
         C.   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been determined
to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as manifested by
evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior, evidence of then-
recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of violent behavior and
serious physical harm, or other evidence of then-present dangerousness.
         D.   The offender has a history of violence toward the victim or a
history of other violent acts towards the victim.
            (ORC 2903.216)
537.99 PENALTY.
   (EDITOR'S NOTE: See Section
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.)
CHAPTER 541
Property Offenses
541.01   Determining property value in arson.
541.02   Arson.
541.03   Criminal damaging or endangering.
541.04   Criminal mischief.
541.05   Criminal trespass.
541.051   Aggravated trespass.
541.06   Destruction of shrubs, trees or crops.
541.07   Desecration.
541.08   Throwing or projecting missile.
541.09   Rewards for identity of persons who destroy City property.
541.10   Ascent and descent of hot air balloons and emergency use of
helicopters.
541.11   Vehicular vandalism.
541.12   Trespass on a place of public amusement.
541.99   Penalty.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
See sectional histories for similar State law
Parents' liability for destructive acts of their children - see Ohio R.C.
3109.09
Physical harm to property defined - see GEN. OFF.
501.01(d), (f)
Reimbursement for investigation or prosecution costs - see GEN. OFF.
501.99(a)
Damage to sidewalks - see GEN. OFF.
521.04
Vehicle trespass - see GEN. OFF.
545.06
 
 
541.01 DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE IN ARSON.
   (a)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or amount of physical harm involved in a violation of Section
541.02.
      (1)   If the property is an heirloom, memento, collector's item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record or other thing that is either
irreplaceable or is replaceable only on the expenditure of substantial time,
effort or money, the value of the property or the amount of physical harm
involved is the amount that would compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   If the property is not covered under subsection (a)(1) hereof, and
the physical harm is such that the property can be restored substantially to
its former condition, the amount of physical harm involved is the reasonable
cost of restoring the property.
      (3)   If the property is not covered under subsection (a)(1) hereof, and
the physical harm is such that the property cannot be restored substantially to
its former condition, the value of the property, in the case of personal
property, is the cost of replacing the property with new property of like kind
and quality, and in the case of real property or real property fixtures, is the
difference in the fair market value of the property immediately before and
immediately after the offense.
   (b)   As used in this section, "fair market value" has the same meaning as
in Section
545.02(c)(3).
 
   (c)    Prima-facie evidence of the value of property, as provided in Section
545.02(d) may be used to establish the value of property pursuant to this
section. (ORC 2909.11)
541.02 ARSON.
   (a)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly cause or
create a substantial risk of physical harm to any property of another without
the other person’s consent.
   (b)   (1)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly cause
or create a substantial risk of physical harm to any structure of another that
is not an occupied structure;
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under subsection (b)(1) of
this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the other person.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of arson, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the value of the property or the amount of physical harm
involved is one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more, arson is a felony and shall
be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
(ORC 2909.03)
541.03 CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING.
   (a)   No person shall cause, or create a substantial risk of physical harm
to any property of another without the other person’s consent:
      (1)   Knowingly, by any means;
      (2)   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas, poison,
radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other inherently
dangerous agency or substance.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal damaging or
endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved in a violation
is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller, appliance, spare part, or any
other equipment or implement used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft and if the violation creates a risk of physical harm to any person or
if the property involved in a violation is an occupied aircraft, criminal
damaging or endangering is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate
State law.
(ORC 2909.06)
541.04 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (a)   No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with either of the following:
         A.   The property of another;
         B.   One’s own residential real property with the purpose to decrease
the value of or enjoyment of the residential real property, if both of the
following apply:
            1.   The residential real property is subject to a mortgage.
            2.   The person has been served with a summons and complaint in a
pending residential mortgage loan foreclosure action relating to that real
property. As used in this subsection, “pending” includes the time between
judgment entry and confirmation of sale.
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator or other device
releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons exposed, or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation station,
boundary marker or other survey station, monument or marker.
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of another
or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety of
others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for its
intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure or personal property that
is on that land.
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software, or computer program, all as defined in Ohio R.C. 2909.01, knowingly
do any of the following:
         A.   In any manner or by any means, including, but not limited to,
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy, or modify a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program or data
contained in a computer, computer system, computer network, computer software,
or computer program;
         B.   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software or computer program.
      (7)   Without advance permission from or through the City Manager to do
so, knowingly damage, deface, dig into, destroy or otherwise improperly tamper
with any property owned by the City.
         (Ord. 3582. Passed 10-20-86.)
      (8)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly destroy or improperly tamper
with a critical infrastructure facility.
   (b)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Critical Infrastructure Facility”. Has the same meaning as in Ohio
R.C. 2911.21.
      (2)   “Improperly Tamper”. Means to change the physical location or the
physical condition of the property.
      (3)   “Safety Device”. Means any fire extinguisher, fire hose, or fire
axe, or any fire escape, emergency exit, or emergency escape equipment, or any
life line, life-saving ring, life preserver, or life boat or raft, or any
alarm, light, flare, signal, sign, or notice intended to warn of danger or
emergency, or intended for other safety purposes, or any guard railing or
safety barricade, or any traffic sign or signal, or any railroad grade crossing
sign, signal, or gate, or any first aid or survival equipment, or any other
device, apparatus, or equipment intended for protecting or preserving the
safety of persons or property.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief,
and shall be punished as provided in subsection (c)(2), (c)(3), or (c)(4) of
this section.
      (2)    Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, criminal mischief
committed in violation of subsection (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), or (a)(5)
of this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, if the violation of subsection (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)
(3), (a)(4), or (a)(5) of this section creates a risk of physical harm to any
person, criminal mischief committed in violation of subsection (a)(1), (a)(2),
(a)(3), (a)(4), or (a)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the property involved in the violation of subsection (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3),
(a)(4), or (a)(5) of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine,
propeller, appliance, spare part, fuel, lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any other
equipment, implement, or material used or intended to be used in the operation
of an aircraft, or any cargo carried or intended to be carried in an aircraft
and if the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or if the
aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief committed in
violation of subsection (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), or (a)(5) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)    Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, criminal mischief
committed in violation of subsection (a)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of subsection (a)(6) of this section or the loss to the victim resulting from
the violation is one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more, or if the computer,
computer system, computer network, computer software, computer program, or data
involved in the violation of subsection (a)(6) is used or intended to be used
in the operation of an aircraft and the violation creates any risk of physical
harm to any person, or if the aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft,
criminal mischief committed in violation of subsection (a)(6) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)    Criminal mischief committed in violation of subsection (a)(7) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (ORC 2909.07)
541.05 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes or
hours, when the offender knows the offender is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access;
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified by signage posted in a conspicuous place or
otherwise being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the agent or
servant of either.
      (5)   Knowingly enter or remain on a critical infrastructure facility.
   (b)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled or in custody of a public agency.
   (c)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender was
authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved when such
authorization was secured by deception.
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal trespass.
Criminal trespass in violation of subsection (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), or (a)(4)
of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Criminal trespass in
violation of subsection (a)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding Section
501.99 , if the person, in committing the violation of this section, used a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, the court shall
impose a fine of two times the usual amount imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or state law, and the offender, in committing each
violation, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle,
the court, in addition to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the
violation, may impound the certificate of registration of that snowmobile or
off-highway motorcycle or the certificate of registration and license plate of
that all-purpose vehicle for not less than sixty days. In such a case, Ohio
R.C. 4519.47 applies.
   (e)   As used in subsections (a) through (e) of this section:
      (1)   “All-Purpose Vehicle, Off-Highway Motorcycle” and “Snowmobile”.
Have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 4519.01.
      (2)   “Critical Infrastructure Facility”. Means:
         A.   One of the following, if completely enclosed by a fence or other
physical barrier that is obviously designed to exclude intruders, or if clearly
marked with signs that are reasonably likely to come to the attention of
potential intruders and that indicate entry is forbidden without site
authorization:
            1.    A petroleum or alumina refinery;
            2.    An electric generating facility, substation, switching
station, electrical control center, or electric transmission and distribution
lines and associated equipment;
            3.    A chemical, polymer, or rubber manufacturing facility;
            4.    A water intake structure, water treatment facility, waste
water facility, drainage facility, water management facility, or any similar
water or sewage treatment system and its water and sewage piping;
            5.    A natural gas company facility or interstate natural gas
pipeline, including a pipeline interconnection, a natural gas compressor
station and associated facilities, city gate or town border station, metering
station, above-ground piping, regulator station, valve site, delivery station,
fabricated assembly, or any other part of a natural gas storage facility
involved in the gathering, storage, transmission, or distribution of gas;
            6.    A telecommunications central switching office or remote
switching facility or an equivalent network facility that serves a similar
purpose;
            7.    Wireline or wireless telecommunications infrastructure,
including telecommunications towers and telephone poles and lines, including
fiber optic lines;
            8.    A port, trucking terminal, or other freight transportation
facility;
            9.    A gas processing plant, including a plant used in the
processing, treatment, or fractionation of natural gas or natural gas liquids;
            10.    A transmission facility used by a federally licensed radio
or television station;
            11.    A steel-making facility that uses an electric arc furnace to
make steel;
            12.    A facility identified and regulated by the United States
Department of Homeland Security’s Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program under 6 C.F.R. part 27;
            13.    A dam that is regulated by the state or federal government;
            14.    A crude oil or refined products storage and distribution
facility, including valve sites, pipeline interconnections, pump station,
metering station, below- or above-ground pipeline, or piping and truck loading
or off-loading facility;
            15.    A video service network and broadband infrastructure,
including associated buildings and facilities, video service headends, towers,
utility poles, and utility lines such as fiber optic lines. As used in this
division, “video service network” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 1332.21.
            16.    Any above-ground portion of an oil, gas, hazardous liquid or
chemical pipeline, tank, or other storage facility;
            17.    Any above-ground portion of a well, well pad, or production
operation;
            18.    A laydown area or construction site for pipe and other
equipment intended for use on an interstate or intrastate natural gas or crude
oil pipeline;
            19.    Any mining operation, including any processing equipment,
batching operation, or support facility for that mining operation.
         B.   With respect to a video service network or broadband or wireless
telecommunications infrastructure, the above-ground portion of a facility
installed in a public right-of-way on a utility pole or in a conduit;
         C.   Any railroad property;
         D.   An electronic asset of any of the following:
            1.    An electric light company that is a public utility under Ohio
R.C. 4905.02;
            2.    An electric cooperative, as defined in Ohio R.C. 4928.01;
            3.    A municipal electric utility, as defined in Ohio R.C.
4928.01;
            4.    A natural gas company that is a public utility under Ohio
R.C. 4905.02;
            5.    A telephone company that is a public utility under Ohio R.C.
4905.02;
            6.    A video service provider, including a cable operator, as
those terms are defined in Ohio R.C. 1332.21.
      (3)   “Electronic Asset”. Includes, but is not limited to, the hardware,
software, and data of a programmable electronic device; all communications,
operations, and customer data networks; and the contents of those data
networks.
      (4)   “Land” or “Premises”. Includes any land, building, structure, or
place belonging to, controlled by, or in custody of another, and any separate
enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
      (5)   “Production Operation, Well, and Well Pad”. Have the same meanings
as in Ohio R.C. 1509.01.
         (ORC 2911.21)
541.051 AGGRAVATED TRESPASS.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall enter or remain on the land or premises of
another with purpose to commit on that land or those premises a misdemeanor,
the elements of which involve causing physical harm to another person or
causing another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
that person.
      (2)   No person shall enter or remain on a critical infrastructure
facility with purpose to destroy or tamper with the facility.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated trespass.
Aggravated trespass in violation of subsection (a)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Aggravated trespass in violation of subsection
(a)(2) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (c)   As used in this section, “Critical infrastructure facility” has the
same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2911.21. (ORC 2911.211)
541.06 DESTRUCTION OF SHRUBS, TREES OR CROPS.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly cut down,
destroy, girdle or otherwise injure a vine, bush, shrub, sapling, tree or crop
standing or growing on the land of another or upon public land.
   (b)   In addition to any penalty provided, whoever violates this section is
liable in treble damages for the injury caused. (ORC 901.51)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. (ORC 901.99(A))
541.07 DESECRATION.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall purposely deface, damage,
pollute or otherwise physically mistreat any of the following:
      (1)   The flag of the United States or of this State;
      (2)   Any public monument;
      (3)   Any historical or commemorative marker, or any structure, Indian
mound or earthwork, cemetery, thing or site of great historical or
archeological interest;
      (4)   A work of art or museum piece;
      (5)   Any other object of reverence or sacred devotion.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of desecration, a misdemeanor
of the second degree.
   (c)   As used in this section, “cemetery” means any place of burial and
includes burial sites that contain American Indian burial objects placed with
or containing American Indian human remains. (ORC 2927.11)
541.08 THROWING OR PROJECTING MISSILE.
   (a)   No person shall throw or propel a missile or other object at or toward
a person, structure, vehicle or other property which might be injured or
damaged thereby, or strike or wound a person or injure or damage any such
property by such act.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
541.09   REWARDS FOR IDENTITY OF PERSONS WHO DESTROY CITY PROPERTY.
   (a)   The City hereby offers a reward in the amount of $100.00 for
information which identifies and which leads to the arrest and conviction of
persons responsible for acts of vandalism which intentionally destroy or damage
property of the City. To entitle anyone to this reward, such information must
also result in a civil judgment for recovery by the City, from the persons so
identified as being responsible for the vandalism, of the dollar amount by
which the City was damaged through such destruction of or injury to City
property.
 
   (b)   The Director of the Public Safety Department, with concurrence of the
City Manager, shall determine whether or not the information given to the City
meets the requirements of this section so as to entitle the giver of the
information to the reward.
(Ord. 2924. Passed 7-7-69.)
541.10   ASCENT AND DESCENT OF HOT AIR BALLOONS AND EMERGENCY USE OF
HELICOPTERS.
   (a)   No person shall operate a hot air balloon so as to ascend (as defined
below) from property within the boundaries of the City of Oakwood without due
regard for the safety of persons or property.
 
   (b)   No person shall operate a hot air balloon so as to descend (as defined
below) upon property within the City of Oakwood unless such descent must be
made because of weather, lack of light or any other matter beyond the control
of the operator. Even if such a descent is otherwise lawful under this
paragraph, no person may make such a descent without due regard for the safety
of persons or property.
 
   (c)   "Ascend" means physically lifting off from the surface of land within
the City of Oakwood or from a structure or any other thing which is in contact
with that land.
 
   (d)   "Descend" means physically landing upon land within the City of
Oakwood or upon a structure or any other thing which is in contact with that
land.
 
   (e)   No person shall operate a helicopter so as to ascend from or descend
upon property within the boundaries of the City of Oakwood except to assist in
emergencies involving danger to life, health or property and except for drills
authorized by the Public Safety Department to prepare for such emergencies.
 
   (f)   To the extent any portion of this section is in conflict with valid
regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration or any other governmental
body with power to preempt action by a municipal corporation, that portion of
this section shall not apply; but the remainder of this section shall continue
in full force and effect.
 
   (g)   A violation of this section shall constitute a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 3860. Adopted 6-5-89.)
541.11 VEHICULAR VANDALISM.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Highway” means any highway as defined in Section
301.84 of the Traffic Code or any lane, road, street, alley, bridge, or
overpass.
      (2)   “Alley”, “street”, and “vehicle” have the same meanings as in
Chapter 301 of the Traffic Code.
      (3)   “Vessel” and “waters in this State” have the same meanings as in
Ohio R.C. 1546.01.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any object
at, onto, or in the path of any of the following:
      (1)   Any vehicle on a highway;
      (2)   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this State that are
located in the Municipality.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of vehicular vandalism. Except
as otherwise provided in this subsection, vehicular vandalism is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the violation of this section creates a substantial
risk of physical harm to any person, serious physical harm to property,
physical harm to any person or serious physical harm to any person, vehicular
vandalism is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
(ORC 2909.09)
541.12 TRESPASS ON A PLACE OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENT.
   (a)   As used in this section, “place of public amusement” means a stadium,
theater or other facility, whether licensed or not, at which a live
performance, sporting event, or other activity takes place for entertainment of
the public and to which access is made available to the public, regardless of
whether admission is charged.
 
   (b)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or remain
on any restricted portion of a place of public amusement and, as a result of
that conduct, interrupt or cause the delay of the live performance, sporting
event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement after a
printed written notice has been given as provided in subsection (d)(1) of this
section that the general public is restricted from access to that restricted
portion of the place of public amusement. A restricted portion of a place of
public amusement may include, but is not limited to, a playing field, an
athletic surface, or a stage located at the place of public amusement.
   (c)   An owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent of the
owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a place of public amusement
may use reasonable force to restrain and remove a person from a restricted
portion of the place of public amusement if the person enters or remains on the
restricted portion of the place of public amusement and, as a result of that
conduct, interrupts or causes the delay of the live performance, sporting
event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement. This
subsection does not provide immunity from criminal liability for any use of
force beyond reasonable force by an owner or lessee of a place of public
amusement, an agent of either the owner or lessee, or a performer or
participant at a place of public amusement.
   (d)   (1)   Notice has been given that the general public is restricted from
access to a portion of a place of public amusement if a printed written notice
of the restricted access has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the
entrance to that portion of the place of public amusement. If a printed written
notice is posted or exhibited as described in this subsection, regarding a
portion of a place of public amusement, in addition to that posting or
exhibition, notice that the general public is restricted from access to that
portion of the place of public amusement also may be given, but is not required
to be given, by either of the following means:
         A.   By notifying the person personally, either orally or in writing,
that access to that portion of the place of public amusement is restricted;
         B.   By broadcasting over the public address system of the place of
public amusement an oral warning that access to that portion of the public
place of amusement is restricted.
      (2)   If notice that the general public is restricted from access to a
portion of a place of public amusement is provided by the posting or exhibition
of a printed written notice as described in subsection (d)(1) of this section,
the Municipality, in a criminal prosecution for a violation of subsection (b)
of this section, is not required to prove that the defendant received actual
notice that the general public is restricted from access to a portion of a
place of public amusement.
   (e)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (b) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass on a place of public amusement, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   In addition to any jail term, fine or other sentence, penalty, or
sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to subsection (e)(1) of this
section, a court may require an offender who violates this section to perform
not less than thirty and not more than one hundred twenty hours of supervised
community service work. (ORC 2911.23)
 
541.99 PENALTY.
   (EDITOR'S NOTE: See Section
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.)
CHAPTER 545
Theft and Fraud
545.01   Definitions.
545.02   Determining property value in theft offense.   
545.03   Property exceptions as felony offense.
545.04   Detention of shoplifters; rights of museums and libraries.
545.05   Misdemeanor theft.
545.06   Unauthorized use of a vehicle; vehicle trespass.
545.07   Insurance fraud.
545.08   Unauthorized use of property.
545.09   Passing bad checks.
545.10   Misuse of credit cards.
545.11   Making or using slugs.
545.12   Tampering with coin machines.
545.13   Criminal simulation.
545.14   Tampering with records.
545.15   Securing writings by deception.
545.16   Personating an officer.
545.17   Defrauding creditors.
545.18   Receiving stolen property.
545.19   Possession of criminal tools.
545.20   Forgery of identification cards.
545.21   Possession of City property.
545.22   Identity fraud.
545.99   Penalty.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
See sectional histories for similar State law
Property defined - see GEN. OFF.
501.01(j)
Cheating - see GEN. OFF.
517.05
Falsification - see GEN. OFF.
525.02
Impersonating a public servant - see GEN. OFF.
525.03
 
 
545.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, unless the context requires that a term be given a
different meaning:
   (a)   "Deception" means knowingly deceiving another or causing another to be
deceived, by any false or misleading representation, by withholding
information, by preventing another from acquiring information, or by any other
conduct, act or omission that creates, confirms or perpetuates a false
impression in another, including a false impression as to law, value, state of
mind, or other objective or subjective fact.
   (b)   "Defraud" means to knowingly obtain, by deception, some benefit for
oneself or another, or to knowingly cause, by deception, some detriment to
another.
   (c)   "Deprive" means to do any of the following:
      (1)   Withhold property of another permanently, or for such period that
appropriates a substantial portion of its value or use, or with purpose to
restore it only upon payment of a reward or other consideration;
      (2)   Dispose of property so as to make it unlikely that the owner will
recover it;
      (3)   Accept, use or appropriate money, property or services, with
purpose not to give proper consideration in return for the money, property or
services, and without reasonable justification or excuse for not giving proper
consideration.
   (d)   "Owner" means, unless the context requires a different meaning, any
person, other than the actor, who is the owner of, who has possession or
control of, or who has any license or interest in property or services, even
though the ownership, possession, control, license or interest is unlawful.
   (e)   "Services" include labor, personal services, professional services,
rental services, public utility services, including wireless service as defined
in Ohio R.C. 5507.01(F)(1), common carrier services, and food, drink,
transportation, entertainment and cable television services.
   (f)   "Writing" means any computer software, document, letter, memorandum,
note, paper, plate, data, film or other thing having in or upon it any written,
typewritten or printed matter, and any token, stamp, seal, credit card, badge,
trademark, label or other symbol of value, right, privilege, license or
identification.
   (g)   "Forge" means to fabricate or create, in whole or in part and by any
means any spurious writing, or to make, execute, alter, complete, reproduce or
otherwise purport to authenticate any writing, when the writing in fact is not
authenticated by that conduct.
   (h)   "Utter" means to issue, publish, transfer, use, put or send into
circulation, deliver or display.
   (i)   "Coin machine" means any mechanical or electronic device designed to
do both of the following:
      (1)   Receive a coin, bill, or token made for that purpose;
      (2)   In return for the insertion or deposit of a coin, bill or token,
automatically dispense property, provide a service or grant a license.
   (j)   "Slug" means an object that, by virtue of its size, shape, composition
or other quality, is capable of being inserted or deposited in a coin machine
as an improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill or token made for that
purpose.
   (k)   "Theft offense" means any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of Ohio R.C. 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12,
2911.13, 2911.31, 2911.32, 2913.02, 2913.03, 2913.04, 2913.041, 2913.08,
2913.11, 2913.21, 2913.31, 2913.32, 2913.33, 2913.34, 2913.40, 2913.42 to
2913.45, 2913.47, 2913.48, 2913.51, 2915.05, 2915.06, or 2921.41.
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in subsection (k)(1) hereof or a violation of Ohio R.C. 2913.41,
2913.81 or 2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit or fraud;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing any
offense under subsection (k)(1), (2) or (3) hereof.
   (l)   "Computer services" includes, but is not limited to, the use of a
computer system, computer network, computer program, data that is prepared for
computer use or data that is contained within a computer system or computer
network.
   (m)   "Computer" means an electronic device that performs logical,
arithmetic and memory functions by the manipulation of electronic or magnetic
impulses. "Computer" includes, but is not limited to, all input, output,
processing, storage, computer program or communication facilities that are
connected or related, in a computer system or network to an electronic device
of that nature.
   (n)   "Computer system" means a computer and related devices, whether
connected or unconnected, including, but not limited to, data input, output and
storage devices, data communications links, and computer programs and data that
make the system capable of performing specified special purpose data processing
tasks.
   (o)   "Computer network" means a set of related and remotely connected
computers and communication facilities that includes more than one computer
system that has the capability to transmit among the connected computers and
communication facilities through the use of computer facilities.
   (p)   "Computer program" means an ordered set of data representing coded
instructions or statements that when executed by a computer cause the computer
to process data.
   (q)   "Computer software" means computer programs, procedures and other
documentation associated with the operation of a computer system.
   (r)   "Data" means a representation of information, knowledge, facts,
concepts or instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized
manner and that are intended for use in a computer, computer system or computer
network. For purposes of Section
545.07, "data" has the additional meaning set forth in subsection (a) of that
section.
   (s)   "Cable television service" means any services provided by or through
the facilities of any cable television system or other similar closed circuit
coaxial cable communications system, or any microwave or similar transmission
service used in connection with any cable television system or other similar
closed circuit coaxial cable communications system.
   (t)   "Gain access" means to approach, instruct, communicate with, store
data in, retrieve data from or otherwise make use of any resources of a
computer, computer system or computer network.
   (u)   "Credit card" includes, but is not limited to, a card, code, device or
other means of access to a customer's account for the purpose of obtaining
money, property, labor or services on credit, or for initiating an electronic
fund transfer at a point-of-sale terminal, an automated teller machine or a
cash dispensing machine.
   (v)   "Electronic fund transfer" has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728,
15 U.S.C.A. 1693a, as amended.
      (ORC 2913.01)
   (w)   “Rented property” means personal property in which the right of
possession and use of the property is for a short and possibly indeterminate
term in return for consideration; the rentee generally controls the duration of
possession of the property, within any applicable minimum or maximum term; and
the amount of consideration generally is determined by the duration of
possession of the property.
   (x)   “Telecommunication” means the origination, emission, dissemination,
transmission, or reception of data, images, signals, sounds, or other
intelligence or equivalence of intelligence or any nature over any
communications system by any method, including, but not limited to, a fiber
optic, electronic, magnetic, optical, digital, or analog method.
   (y)   “Telecommunications device” means any instrument, equipment, machine,
or other device that facilitates telecommunication, including, but not limited
to, a computer, computer network, computer chip, computer circuit, scanner,
telephone, cellular telephone, pager, personal communications device,
transponder, receiver, radio, modem, or device that enables the use of a modem.
   (z)   “Telecommunications service” means the providing, allowing,
facilitating, or generating of any form of telecommunication through the use of
a telecommunications device over a telecommunications system.
   (aa)   “Counterfeit telecommunications device” means a telecommunications
device that, alone or with another telecommunications device, has been altered,
constructed, manufactured, or programmed to acquire, intercept, receive, or
otherwise facilitate the use of a telecommunications service or information
service without the authority or consent of the provider of the
telecommunications service or information service. “Counterfeit
telecommunications device” includes, but is not limited to, a clone telephone,
clone microchip, tumbler telephone, or tumbler microchip; a wireless scanning
device capable of acquiring, intercepting, receiving, or otherwise facilitating
the use of telecommunications service or information service without immediate
detection; or a device, equipment, hardware, or software designed for, or
capable of, altering or changing the electronic serial number in a wireless
telephone.
   (bb)   (1)   “Information service” means, subject to subsection (bb)(2)
hereof, the offering of a capability for generating, acquiring, storing,
transforming, processing, retrieving, utilizing, or making available
information via telecommunications, including, but not limited to, electronic
publishing.
      (2)   “Information service” does not include any use of a capability of a
type described in subsection (bb)(1) hereof for the management, control, or
operation of a telecommunications system or the management of a
telecommunications service.
   (cc)   “Elderly person” means a person who is sixty-five years of age or
older.
   (dd)   “Disabled adult” means a person who is eighteen years of age or older
and has some impairment of body or mind that makes the person unfit to work at
any substantially remunerative employment that the person otherwise would be
able to perform and that will, with reasonable probability, continue for a
period of at least twelve months without any present indication of recovery
from the impairment, or who is eighteen years of age or older and has been
certified as permanently and totally disabled by an agency of this State or the
United States that has the function of so classifying persons.
   (ee)   “Firearm” and “dangerous ordnance” have the same meanings as in Ohio
R.C. 2923.11.
   (ff)   “Motor vehicle” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4501.01.
(gg)   “Dangerous drug” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4729.01.
   (hh)   “Drug abuse offense” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2925.01.
      (ORC 2913.01)
   (ii)   “Police dog or horse” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2921.321.
   (jj)   “Anhydrous ammonia” is a compound formed by the combination of two
gaseous elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, in the manner described in this
subsection. Anhydrous ammonia is one part nitrogen to three parts hydrogen
(NH3). Anhydrous ammonia by weight is fourteen parts nitrogen to three parts
hydrogen, which is approximately eighty-two per cent nitrogen to eighteen per
cent hydrogen.
   (kk)   “Assistance dog” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 955.011.
   (ll)   “Active duty service member” means any member of the armed forces of
the United States performing active duty under Title 10 of the United States
Code.
      (ORC 2913.01)
545.02 DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE IN THEFT OFFENSE.
   (a)   If more than one item of property or service is involved in a theft
offense, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value is the aggregate value of all property or services
involved in the offense.
   (b)   (1)   When a series of offenses under Section
545.05, or a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation of,
conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of Section
545.05,
545.06, or
545.08,
545.10(b)(1) or (2), or Section
545.15 or
545.20 involving a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, is
committed by the offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or
relationship to another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single
offense. When a series of offenses under Section
545.05, or a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation of,
conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of Sections
545.05 or
545.15 involving a victim who is an active duty service member or spouse of an
active duty service member is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity or relationship to another, all of those offenses shall be
tried as a single offense. The value of the property or services involved in
the series of offenses for the purpose of determining the value is the
aggregate value of all property and services involved in all offenses in the
series.
      (2)   If an offender commits a series of offenses under Section
545.05 that involves a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims,
all of the offenses may be tried as a single offense. If an offender is being
tried for the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a
violation of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of Section
545.05,
545.06 or
545.08, Section
545.10(b)(1) or (2), or Section
545.15 or
545.20, whether committed against one victim or more than one victim, involving
a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, pursuant to a scheme or
course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a single offense. If
the offender is being tried for the commission of a series of violations of,
attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in
violations of Section
545.05 or
545.15, whether committed against one victim or more than one victim, involving
a victim who is an active duty service member or spouse of an active duty
service member pursuant to a scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses
may be tried as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single
offense, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value is the aggregate value of all property and services
involved in all of the offenses in the course of conduct.
      (3)   In prosecuting a single offense under subsection (b)(1) or (2), it
is not necessary to separately allege and prove each offense in the series.
Rather, it is sufficient to allege and prove that the offender, within a given
span of time, committed one or more theft offenses in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another as described in subsection (b)
(1) of this section or that involve a common course of conduct to defraud
multiple victims or a scheme or course of conduct as described in subsection
(b)(2) of this section. While it is not necessary to separately allege and
prove each offense in the series in order to prosecute a single offense under
subsection (b)(1) or (2) hereof, it remains necessary in prosecuting them as a
single offense to prove the aggregate value of the property or services in
order to meet the requisite statutory offense level sought by the prosecution.
   (c)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   The value of an heirloom, memento, collector's item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record or other thing that has intrinsic
worth to its owner and that is either irreplaceable or is replaceable only on
the expenditure of substantial time, effort or money, is the amount that would
compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   The value of personal effects and household goods, and of
materials, supplies, equipment and fixtures used in the profession, business,
trade, occupation or avocation of its owner, which property is not covered
under subsection (c)(1) hereof, and which retains substantial utility for its
purpose regardless of its age or condition, is the cost of replacing the
property with new property of like kind and quality.
      (3)   The value of any real or personal property that is not covered
under subsections (c)(1) or (2) hereof, and the value of services, is the fair
market value of the property or services. As used in this section, "fair market
value" is the money consideration that a buyer would give and a seller would
accept for property or services, assuming that the buyer is willing to buy and
the seller is willing to sell, that both are fully informed as to all facts
material to the transaction, and that neither is under any compulsion to act.
   (d)   Without limitation on the evidence that may be used to establish the
value of property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   When the property involved is personal property held for sale at
wholesale or retail, the price at which the property was held for sale is
prima-facie evidence of its value.
      (2)   When the property involved is a security or commodity traded on an
exchange, the closing price or, if there is no closing price, the asked price,
given in the latest market quotation prior to the offense, is prima-facie
evidence of the value of the security or commodity.
      (3)   When the property involved is livestock, poultry or raw
agricultural products for which a local market price is available, the latest
local market price prior to the offense is prima-facie evidence of the value of
the livestock, poultry or products.
      (4)   When the property involved is a negotiable instrument, the face
value is prima-facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (5)   When the property involved is a warehouse receipt, bill of lading,
pawn ticket, claim check or other instrument entitling the holder or bearer to
receive property, the face value or, if there is no face value, the value of
the property covered by the instrument less any payment necessary to receive
the property, is prima-facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (6)   When the property involved is a ticket of admission, ticket for
transportation, coupon, token or other instrument entitling the holder or
bearer to receive property or services, the face value or, if there is no face
value, the value of the property or services that may be received by the
instrument, is prima-facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (7)   When the services involved are gas, electricity, water, telephone,
transportation, shipping or other services for which the rate is established by
law, the duly established rate is prima-facie evidence of the value of the
services.
      (8)   When the services involved are services for which the rate is not
established by law, and the offender has been notified prior to the offense of
the rate for the services, either in writing or orally, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential offenders,
the rate contained in the notice is prima-facie evidence of the value of the
services. (ORC 2913.61)
545.03 PROPERTY EXCEPTIONS AS FELONY OFFENSE.
   Regardless of the value of the property involved, and regardless of whether
the offender has previously been convicted of a theft offense, the provisions
of Section
545.05 or
545.18 do not apply if the property involved is any of the following:
   (a)   A credit card;
   (b)   A printed form for a check or other negotiable instrument, that on its
face identifies the drawer or maker for whose use it is designed or identifies
the account on which it is to be drawn, and that has not been executed by the
drawer or maker or on which the amount is blank;
   (c)   A motor vehicle identification license plate as prescribed by Ohio
R.C. 4503.22, a temporary motor vehicle license registration as prescribed by
Ohio R.C. 4503.182, or any comparable temporary motor vehicle license
registration as prescribed by the applicable law of another state or the United
States;
   (d)   A blank form for a certificate of title or a manufacturer's or
importer's certificate to a motor vehicle, as prescribed by Ohio R.C. 4505.07;
   (e)   A blank form for any license listed in Ohio R.C. 4507.01(A).
      (ORC 2913.71)
545.04 DETENTION OF SHOPLIFTERS; RIGHTS OF MUSEUMS AND LIBRARIES.
   (a)   A merchant, or his employee or agent, who has probable cause to
believe that items offered for sale by a mercantile establishment have been
unlawfully taken by a person, may, for the purposes set forth in subsection (c)
hereof, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of
time within the mercantile establishment or its immediate vicinity.
   (b)   Any officer, employee or agent of a library, museum or archival
institution may, for the purposes set forth in subsection (c) hereof or for the
purpose of conducting a reasonable investigation of a belief that the person
has acted in a manner described in subsections (b)(1) and (2) hereof, detain a
person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time within, or in the
immediate vicinity of the library, museum or archival institution, if the
officer, employee or agent has probable cause to believe that the person has
either:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly moved, defaced, damaged,
destroyed or otherwise improperly tampered with property owned by or in the
custody of the library, museum or archival institution; or
      (2)   With purpose to deprive the library, museum or archival institution
of property owned by it or in its custody, knowingly obtained or exerted
control over the property without the consent of the owner or person authorized
to give consent, beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the
owner or person authorized to give consent, by deception, or by threat.
   (c)   An officer, agent or employee of a library, museum or archival
institution pursuant to subsection (b) hereof or a merchant or his employee or
agent pursuant to subsection (a) hereof may detain another person for any of
the following purposes:
      (1)   To recover the property that is the subject of the unlawful taking,
criminal mischief or theft;
      (2)   To cause an arrest to be made by a peace officer;
      (3)   To obtain a warrant of arrest.
      (4)   To offer the person, if the person is suspected of the unlawful
taking, criminal mischief, or theft and notwithstanding any other provision of
this General Offenses or the Ohio Revised Code, an opportunity to complete a
pretrial diversion program and to inform the person of the other legal remedies
available to the library, museum, archival institution or merchant.
   (d)   The officer, agent or employee of the library, museum or archival
institution, or the merchant or his employee or agent acting under subsection
(a) or (b) hereof shall not search the person, search or seize any property
belonging to the person detained without the person's consent, or use undue
restraint upon the person detained.
   (e)   Any peace officer may arrest without a warrant any person that he has
probable cause to believe has committed any act described in subsection (b)(1)
or (2) hereof or that he has probable cause to believe has committed an
unlawful taking in a mercantile establishment. An arrest under this subsection
shall be made within a reasonable time after the commission of the act or
unlawful taking.
   (f)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Archival institution" means any public or private building,
structure or shelter in which are stored historical documents, devices,
records, manuscripts or items of public interest, which historical materials
are stored to preserve the materials or the information in the materials, to
disseminate the information contained in the materials, or to make the
materials available for public inspection or for inspection by certain persons
who have a particular interest in, use for or knowledge concerning the
materials.
      (2)   "Museum" means any public or private nonprofit institution that is
permanently organized for primarily educational or aesthetic purposes, owns or
borrows objects or items of public interest, and cares for and exhibits to the
public the objects or items.
      (3)   “Pretrial diversion program” means a rehabilitative, educational
program designed to reduce recidivism and promote personal responsibility that
is at least four hours in length and that has been approved by any court in
this State. (ORC 2935.041)
545.05 MISDEMEANOR THEFT.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to deprive the owner of property or services,
shall knowingly obtain or exert control over either the property or services in
any of the following ways:
      (1)   Without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give
consent;
      (2)   Beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent;
      (3)   By deception;
      (4)   By threat;
      (5)   By intimidation.
   (b)    (1)    Whoever violates this section is guilty of theft. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, a violation of this section is misdemeanor
theft, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the elements set forth in Ohio
R.C. 2913.02(B) for felony theft, grand theft, or aggravated theft are met,
then a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)    In addition to the penalties described in subsection (b)(1) of
this section, if the offender committed the violation by causing a motor
vehicle to leave the premises of an establishment at which gasoline is offered
for retail sale without the offender making full payment for gasoline that was
dispensed into the fuel tank of the motor vehicle or into another container,
the court may do one of the following:
         A.   Unless subsection (b)(2)B. of this section applies, suspend for
not more than six months the offenders driver’s license, probationary driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
nonresident operating privilege;
         B.   If the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
nonresident operating privilege has previously been suspended pursuant to
subsection (b)(2)A. of this section, or any other substantially equivalent
state or local law, impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s license,
permit, or privilege from the range specified in Ohio R.C. 4510.02(A)(7),
provided that the suspension shall be at least six months;
         C.   The court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, probationary driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or nonresident operating privilege pursuant to subsection
(b)(2)A. or (b)(2)B. of this section, instead may require the offender to
perform community service for a number of hours determined by the court.
      (3)    In addition to the penalties described in subsection (b)(1) of
this section, if the offender committed the violation by stealing rented
property or rental services, the court may order that the offender make
restitution pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.18 or Ohio R.C. 2929.28. Restitution may
include, but is not limited to, the cost of repairing or replacing the stolen
property, or the cost of repairing the stolen property and any loss of revenue
resulting from deprivation of the property due to theft of rental services that
is less than or equal to the actual value of the property at the time it was
rented. Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental
services shall be determined pursuant to the provisions of Ohio R.C. 2913.72.
   (c)    The sentencing court that suspends an offender’s license, permit, or
nonresident operating privilege under subsection (b)(2) of this section may
grant the offender limited driving privileges during the period of the
suspension in accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 4510.
(ORC 2913.02)
545.06 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE; VEHICLE TRESPASS.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of
the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (b)   This section does not apply to property removed from the State or if
possession is kept for more than forty-eight hours.
   (c)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section:
      (1)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor, though mistaken,
reasonably believed that the actor was authorized to use or operate the
property.
      (2)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor reasonably believed
that the owner or person empowered to give consent would authorize the actor to
use or operate the property.
   (d)   No person shall knowingly enter into or upon a motor vehicle,
motorcycle or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent.
   (e)   Whoever violates subsection (a) hereof is guilty of unauthorized use
of a vehicle, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the offense
is an elderly person or disabled adult and if the victim incurs a loss as a
result of the violation, a violation of subsection (a) hereof is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law. (ORC 2913.03)
   (f)   Whoever violates subsection (d) hereof is guilty of vehicle trespass,
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
545.07 INSURANCE FRAUD.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Data" has the same meaning as in Section
545.01  and additionally includes any other representation of information,
knowledge, facts, concepts or instructions that are being or have been prepared
in a formalized manner.
      (2)   "Deceptive" means that a statement, in whole or in part, would
cause another to be deceived because it contains a misleading representation,
withholds information, prevents the acquisition of information or by any other
conduct, act or omission creates, confirms or perpetuates a false impression,
including, but not limited to, a false impression as to law, value, state of
mind or other objective or subjective fact.
      (3)   "Insurer" means any person that is authorized to engage in the
business of insurance in this State under Title XXXIX of the Ohio Revised Code;
The Ohio Fair Plan Underwriting Association created under Ohio R.C. 3929.43;
any health insuring corporation; and any legal entity that is self-insured and
provides benefits to its employees or members.
      (4)   "Policy" means a policy, certificate, contract or plan that is
issued by an insurer.
      (5)   "Statement" includes, but is not limited to, any notice, letter or
memorandum; proof of loss; bill of lading; receipt for payment; invoice,
account or other financial statement; estimate of property damage; bill for
services; diagnosis or prognosis; prescription; hospital, medical or dental
chart or other record; X-Ray, photograph, videotape or movie film; test result;
other evidence of loss, injury or expense; computer-generated document; and
data in any form.
   (b)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Present to, or cause to be presented to, an insurer any written or
oral statement that is part of, or in support of, an application for insurance,
a claim for payment pursuant to a policy or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive;
      (2)   Assist, aid, abet, solicit, procure or conspire with another to
prepare or make any written or oral statement that is intended to be presented
to an insurer as part of, or in support of, an application for insurance, a
claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of insurance fraud a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the amount of the claim that is false or
deceptive is one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more, insurance fraud is a felony
and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
   (d)   This section shall not be construed to abrogate, waive or modify Ohio
R.C. 2317.02(A). (ORC 2913.47)
545.08 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly use or operate the property of another
without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (b)   The affirmative defenses contained in Section
545.06(c) are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unauthorized use of
property. Except as provided in subsection (d) hereof, unauthorized use of
property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (d)   If unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
unauthorized use of property is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Unauthorized
use of property is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law
if:
      (1)   Unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
and if the value of the property is one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more; or
      (2)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult.
         (ORC 2913.04)
545.09 PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Check” includes any form of debit from a demand deposit account,
including, but not limited to any of the following:
         A.   A check, bill of exchange, draft, order of withdrawal, or similar
negotiable or nonnegotiable instrument;
         B.   An electronic check, electronic transaction, debit card
transaction, check card transaction, substitute check, web check, or any form
of automated clearing house transaction.
      (2)   “Issue a check” means causing any form of debit from a demand
deposit account.
   (b)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall issue or transfer or cause
to be issued or transferred a check or other negotiable instrument, knowing
that it will be dishonored or knowing that a person has ordered or will order
stop payment on the check or other negotiable instrument.
   (c)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a check
or other negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored,
if either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer had no account with the drawee at the time of issue or
the stated date, whichever is later.
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within thirty days after issue
or the stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer,
indorser or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days after receiving notice of dishonor.
   (d)   In determining the value of the payment for purposes of subsection (e)
of this section, the court may aggregate all checks and other negotiable
instruments that the offender issued or transferred or caused to be issued or
transferred in violation of subsection (a) of this section within a period of
one hundred eighty consecutive days.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of passing bad checks. Except
as otherwise provided in this subsection, passing bad checks is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the check or checks or other negotiable instrument or
instruments are issued or transferred to a single vendor or single other person
for the payment of one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more or if the check or
checks or other negotiable instrument or instruments are issued or transferred
to multiple vendors or persons for the payment of one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500) or more, passing bad checks is a felony and shall be
prosecuted under appropriate State law.
(ORC 2913.11)
545.10 MISUSE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Practice deception for the purpose of procuring the issuance of a
credit card, when a credit card is issued in actual reliance thereon;
      (2)   Knowingly buy or sell a credit card from or to a person other than
the issuer.
      (3)   As an officer, employee, or appointee of a political subdivision or
as a public servant as defined under Section
525.01 , knowingly misuse a credit card account held by a political
subdivision.
   (b)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Obtain control over a credit card as security for a debt;
      (2)   Obtain property or services by the use of a credit card, in one or
more transactions, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the card
has expired or been revoked, or was obtained, is retained or is being used in
violation of law;
      (3)   Furnish property or services upon presentation of a credit card,
knowing that the card is being used in violation of law;
      (4)   Represent or cause to be represented to the issuer of a credit card
that property or services have been furnished, knowing that the representation
is false.
   (c)   No person, with purpose to violate this section, shall receive,
possess, control or dispose of a credit card.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misuse of credit cards, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Misuse of credit cards is a felony and shall
be prosecuted under appropriate State law if:
      (1)   The cumulative retail value of the property and services involved
in one or more violations of subsection (b)(2), (3) or (4) hereof, which
violations involve one or more credit card accounts and occur within a period
of ninety consecutive days commencing on the date of the first violation, is
one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more; or
      (2)   The victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult
and the offense involves a violation of subsection (b)(1) or (2) hereof.
         (ORC 2913.21)
545.11 MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud;
      (2)   Make, possess or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree. (ORC 2913.33)
545.12 TAMPERING WITH COIN MACHINES.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to commit theft or to defraud, shall knowingly
enter, force an entrance into, tamper with or insert any part of an instrument
into any coin machine.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with coin
machines, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender has previously
been convicted of a violation of Ohio R.C. 2911.32 or of any theft offense,
tampering with coin machines is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate State law. (ORC 2911.32)
545.13 CRIMINAL SIMULATION.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to defraud, or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Make or alter any object so that it appears to have value because
of antiquity, rarity, curiosity, source, or authorship, which it does not in
fact possess;
      (2)   Practice deception in making, retouching, editing, or reproducing
any photograph, movie film, video tape, phonograph record, or recording tape;
      (3)   Falsely or fraudulently make, simulate, forge, alter, or
counterfeit any wrapper, label, stamp, cork, or cap prescribed by the Liquor
Control Commission under Ohio R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, falsely or
fraudulently cause to be made, simulated, forged, altered, or counterfeited any
wrapper, label, stamp, cork, or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission
under Ohio R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or use more than once any wrapper,
label, stamp, cork, or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under
Ohio R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303.
      (4)   Utter, or possess with purpose to utter, any object that the person
knows to have been simulated as provided in subsection (a)(1), (2) or (3) of
this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal simulation, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the loss to the victim is one thousand
dollars ($1,000) or more, criminal simulation is a felony and shall be
prosecuted under appropriate State law.
(ORC 2913.32)
545.14 TAMPERING WITH RECORDS.
   (a)    No person, knowing the person has no privilege to do so, and with
purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is facilitating a fraud, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Falsify, destroy, remove, conceal, alter, deface or mutilate any
writing, computer software, data, or record;
      (2)   Utter any writing or record, knowing it to have been tampered with
as provided in subsection (a)(1) hereof.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with records, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation involves data or computer
software the value of which or loss to the victim is one thousand dollars
($1,000) or more, or if the writing or record is a will unrevoked at the time
of the offense, tampering with records is a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate State law. (ORC 2913.42)
545.15 SECURING WRITINGS BY DECEPTION.
   (a)   No person, by deception, shall cause another to execute any writing
that disposes of or encumbers property, or by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of securing writings by
deception, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Securing writings by deception is
a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law if:
      (1)   The value of the property or obligation involved is one thousand
dollars ($1,000) or more; or
      (2)   The victim of the offense is an elderly person, disabled adult,
active duty service member or spouse of an active duty service member.
         (ORC 2913.43)
545.16 PERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he is facilitating
a fraud, or with purpose to induce another to purchase property or services,
shall personate a law enforcement officer, or an inspector, investigator or
agent of any governmental agency.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of personating an officer, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. (ORC 2913.44)
545.17 DEFRAUDING CREDITORS.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to defraud one or more of the person’s
creditors, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Remove, conceal, destroy, encumber, convey or otherwise deal with
any of the person’s property.
      (2)   Misrepresent or refuse to disclose to a fiduciary appointed to
administer or manage the person’s affairs or estate, the existence, amount or
location of any of the person’s property, or any other information regarding
such property that the person is legally required to furnish to the fiduciary.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of defrauding creditors, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property involved is one
thousand dollars ($1,000) or more, defrauding creditors is a felony and shall
be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
(ORC 2913.45)
545.18 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall receive, retain or dispose of property of another,
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the property has been
obtained through commission of a theft offense.
   
   (b)   It is not a defense to a charge of receiving stolen property in
violation of this section that the property was obtained by means other than
through the commission of a theft offense if the property was explicitly
represented to the accused person as being obtained through the commission of a
theft offense.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of receiving stolen property,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. Receiving stolen property is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law if:
      (1)   The value of the property involved is one thousand dollars ($1,000)
or more; or
      (2)   The property involved is:
         A.   Listed in Section
545.03 ; or
         B.   A motor vehicle as defined in Ohio R.C. 4501.01; or
         C.   A dangerous drug as defined in Ohio R.C. 4729.01.
         D.   A special purchase article as defined in Ohio R.C. 4737.04 or a
bulk merchandise container as defined in Ohio R.C. 4737.012.
            (ORC 2913.51)
545.19 POSSESSION OF CRIMINAL TOOLS.
   (a)   No person shall possess or have under the person’s control any
substance, device, instrument, or article, with purpose to use it criminally.
   (b)   Each of the following constitutes prima-facie evidence of criminal
purpose:
      (1)   Possession or control of any dangerous ordnance, or the materials
or parts for making dangerous ordnance, in the absence of circumstances
indicating the dangerous ordnance, materials, or parts are intended for
legitimate use;
      (2)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article designed or specially adapted for criminal use;
      (3)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article commonly used for criminal purposes, under circumstances indicating the
item is intended for criminal use.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing criminal tools,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the circumstances indicate that the
substance, device, instrument, or article involved in the offense was intended
for use in the commission of a felony, possessing criminal tools is a felony
and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
(ORC 2923.24)
545.20 FORGERY OF IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Forge an identification card;
      (2)   Sell or otherwise distribute a card that purports to be an
identification card, knowing it to have been forged.
      (3)   As used in this section, "identification card" means a card that
includes personal information or characteristics of an individual, a purpose of
which is to establish the identity of the bearer described on the card, whether
the words "identity," "identification," "identification card" or other similar
words appear on the card.
   (b)   Whoever violates subsection (a) hereof is guilty of forging
identification cards or selling or distributing forged identification cards.
Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, forging or selling or
distributing forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this section or
Ohio R.C. 2913.31 (B), forging identification cards or selling or distributing
forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the first degree and, in
addition, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine of not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
(ORC 2913.31)
545.21 POSSESSION OF CITY PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person, without being duly authorized, shall have in his control or
possession any equipment, tools, implements or other property belonging to or
under the control of the City.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
545.22 IDENTITY FRAUD.
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Former Section
545.21 has been deleted from the Codified Ordinances. Ohio R.C. 2913.49, from
which Section 545.21 was derived, has been reclassified from a misdemeanor to a
felony offense.)
545.99 PENALTY.
   (EDITOR'S NOTE: See Section
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.)
CHAPTER 549
Weapons and Explosives
549.01   Sale or discharge of fireworks.
549.02   Fireworks display permits.
549.03   Blasting; permit.
549.99   Penalty.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
See sectional histories for similar State law
License or permit to possess dangerous ordnance - see Ohio R.C. 2923.18
Hunting prohibited - see GEN. OFF.
505.10
Reporting gunshot and stab wounds - see GEN. OFF.
525.05(b)
Property destruction by tear gas device, etc. - see GEN. OFF.
541.04
 
 
549.01 SALE OR DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS.
   (a)   No person shall possess fireworks in this City or shall possess for
sale or sell fireworks in this City, except a licensed manufacturer of
fireworks as authorized by Ohio R.C. 3743.02 to 3743.08, a licensed wholesaler
of fireworks as authorized by Ohio R.C. 3743.15 to 3743.21, an out-of-state
resident as authorized by Ohio R.C. 3743.44, a resident of this State as
authorized by Ohio R.C. 3743.45, or a licensed exhibitor of fireworks as
authorized by Ohio R.C. 3743.50 to 3743.55 and Section
549.02 .
   (b)   Except as provided in Ohio R.C. 3743.80 and except for licensed
exhibitors of fireworks authorized to conduct a fireworks exhibition pursuant
to Ohio R.C. 3743.50 to 3743.55 and Section
 549.02,  no person shall discharge, ignite or explode any fireworks in this
City.
   (c)   No person shall use in a theater or public hall, what is technically
known as fireworks showers, or a mixture containing potassium chlorate and
sulphur.
   (d)   No person shall sell fireworks of any kind to a person under eighteen
years of age. No person under eighteen years of age shall enter a fireworks
sales showroom unless that person is accompanied by a parent, legal guardian,
or other responsible adult. No person under eighteen years of age shall touch
or possess fireworks on a licensed premises without the consent of the
licensee. A licensee may eject any person from a licensed premises that is in
any way disruptive to the safe operation of the premises.
   (e)   Except as otherwise provided in Ohio R.C. 3743.44, no person, other
than a licensed manufacturer, licensed wholesaler, licensed exhibitor, or
shipping permit holder, shall possess 1.3 G fireworks.
   (f)   All provisions of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Oakwood,
Ohio, including but not limited to Chapter
549  concerning the possession, sale or discharge, ignition or exploding of
fireworks, and all ordinances that regulate noise, disturbance of the peace and
disorderly conduct, will remain in full force and effect regardless of the
permission granted in H.B. 172 and the amendments to Ohio R.C. 3743.45.
   (g)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(Ord. 4959. Passed 6-6-22.)
549.02 FIREWORKS DISPLAY PERMITS.
   (a)   An exhibitor of fireworks licensed under Ohio R.C. 3743.50 through
3743.55 who wishes to conduct a public fireworks exhibition shall apply for
approval to conduct the exhibition to the Director of the Department of Public
Safety.
   (b)   The approval required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be
evidenced by that Director signing a permit for the exhibition. Any exhibitor
of fireworks who wishes to conduct a public fireworks exhibition may obtain a
copy of the form from the State Fire Marshal or, if it is available, from the
Safety Director.
   (c)   Before signing a permit and issuing it to a licensed exhibitor of
fireworks, the Safety Director shall inspect the premises on which the
exhibition will take place and shall determine that, in fact, the applicant for
the permit is a licensed exhibitor of fireworks. Each applicant shall show his
license as an exhibit of fireworks to the Director.
   
   (d)   The Safety Director shall give his approval to conduct a public
fireworks exhibition only if he is satisfied, based on the inspection, that the
premises on which the exhibition will be conducted allow the exhibitor to
comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire marshal pursuant to Ohio R.C.
3743.53(B) and the applicant is in fact, a licensed exhibitor of fireworks. The
Safety Director may inspect the premises immediately prior to the exhibition to
determine if the exhibitor has complied with the rules, and may revoke a permit
for noncompliance with the rules.
   (e)   The Safety Director shall not issue a permit until the exhibitor pays
any requisite fee set in the general fee schedule issued by the City Manager.
   (f)   Each exhibitor shall provide an indemnity bond in the amount of at
least one million dollars ($1,000,000) issued by a surety company authorized to
do business in the State of Ohio and in a form satisfactory to the City
Attorney, conditioned for the payment of all final judgments that may be
rendered on account of injury, death, or loss to persons or property emanating
from the fireworks exhibition, or proof of insurance coverage of at least one
million dollars ($1,000,000) for liability arising from injury, death, or loss
to persons or property emanating from the fireworks exhibition. The City shall
be an additional insured under that policy, and the deductible under the policy
may not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000). The City Council by resolution
may require the exhibitor to provide an indemnity bond or proof of insurance
coverage in amounts greater than those required by this paragraph. The Safety
Director shall not issue a permit until the exhibitor provides the bond or
proof of the insurance coverage required by this division or by the City
Council.
   (g)   Each permit for a fireworks exhibition issued by the Safety Director
shall contain a distinct number, together with the name of this City. A copy of
each permit issued shall be forwarded by the Director issuing it to the State
Fire Marshal. A permit is not transferable or assignable.
   (h)   The Director shall keep a record of issued permits and fireworks
exhibitions. In this list, the Director shall list the name of the exhibitor,
his license number, the premises on which the exhibition will be conducted, the
date and time of the exhibition, the name of this City, and the number of the
permit issued to the exhibition.
(ORC 3743.54; Ord. 4902. Passed 1-6-20.)
 
549.03 BLASTING; PERMIT.
   (a)   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the City without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the City Manager. The
City Manager before granting such permit may require the applicant to provide a
bond to indemnify the City and all other persons against injury or damages
which might result from the proposed blasting.
   (b)   No persons shall carry on blasting operations within the City unless
such operations are so securely and appropriately covered as will completely
protect the person and property of all others lawfully within the City from
vibration and flying earth, stone or other materials and substances.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(Ord. 4902. Passed 1-6-20.)
549.99 PENALTY.
   (EDITOR'S NOTE: See Section
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.)
CHAPTER 551
Landscape Management
551.01   Purpose and definitions.
551.02   Periodic cutting required.
551.03   Notice to cut; notice of violation.
551.04   Failure to comply with notice.
551.05   Collection of costs.
551.06   Designation of nature areas; appeals.
551.07   Managed natural landscape areas.
551.99   Penalty.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Notice to cut noxious weeds - see ORC 731.51 et seq.
Destruction of weeds - see ORC 971.33 et seq.
Removal of weeds - see HSG. 1701.01 A 2, 1701.02 B.
 
 
551.01 PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to encourage the use of
vegetation throughout the City to maximize ecological and aesthetic benefits
while respecting existing community values regarding landscaping to include
well-maintained yards, preservation of sight lines, compatibility with existing
structures, and public safety. Ecological benefits of "managed natural
landscapes" include enhancement of pollinator support habitat, stormwater
management, carbon sequestration, erosion control, and preservation of
biodiversity.
   (b)   Definitions. As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply:
"Managed or maintained" means regularly cultivated, weeded, pruned, trimmed,
tied, and/or managed so as to avoid the appearance of neglect, overgrowth,
untidiness, or disease/decay, and in a manner that is not inconsistent with
customary and prevailing levels of yard maintenance within the subject
property's property maintenance district, as defined in Section 108 of the
Oakwood Property Maintenance Code. For purposes of this definition, appearance
shall be determined by the Building Commissioner or his/her designee, subject
to appeal to the Property Maintenance Board under applicable procedures set
forth in the Oakwood Property Maintenance Code.
"Managed natural landscape area" means a planned, intentional, and managed or
maintained planting of native or non-native grasses, wildflowers, ferns,
sedges, shrubs, or trees, including but not limited to rain gardens, butterfly
gardens, and ornamental plants.
"Noxious weed" means any plant that has been identified as being harmful to the
local natural environment and included in a list promulgated by the City
Manager or his or her designee; or as listed in Sections 901:5-30 or 901:5-37
of the Ohio Administrative Code, which is incorporated herein by reference as
the same may be amended from time to time.
"Ornamental plant" means grasses, perennials, annuals, and groundcovers
purposefully planted for aesthetic reasons.
"Rain garden" means planting designed not only to aesthetically improve an
area, but also to reduce the amount of stormwater and accompanying pollutants
from entering the watershed.
"Turf-grass" means any variety of grass commonly used in regularly cut lawns,
typically maintained at a height of no more than five (5) inches.
"Weed" includes but is not limited to any brush, vegetation rubbish or
vegetation litter (including leaves, other than leaves spread or left to over-
winter as a mulching treatment in prepared beds), accumulating or permitted to
lie upon any property within the City; and all vegetation that is not managed
or maintained by the owner or person in control of the property on which all
such vegetation is located which generally exceeds the height restrictions in
this Chapter, but excluding trees, shrubs and/or cultivated flowers and
gardens.
(Ord. 4960. Passed 7-18-22.)
551.02 PERIODIC CUTTING REQUIRED.
   (a)   It is hereby determined that weeds or turf-grass growing at a height
of eight (8) inches or higher upon any property in the City are a public
nuisance. The owner, occupant or other person or entity having charge or care
of any lot or parcel of land within the City, whether the same is improved or
unimproved, vacant or occupied, shall cut down and remove therefrom all weeds
and turf-grass of a height of eight (8) inches or greater, and any and all
vegetation constituting a threat to the public health, safety, comfort or
welfare.
   (b)   The owner, occupant or other person or entity having charge or care of
land adjacent to a public street or public alley shall be responsible under
this Chapter
551  for the cutting or removal of weeds, turf-grass and vegetation located on
the unpaved street or alley right-of-way adjacent to such land, to the same
standard set forth in subsection
551.01( a). (Also see
521.07,
521.17 a nd 1707.01.)
 
   (c)   The duty to cut or remove weeds, turf-grasses and vegetation, set
forth in this Section
551.01, shall not apply to the extent land has been designated by the City as a
public park nature area or a private lot nature area under this chapter.
(Ord. 4960. Passed 7-18-22.)
   
551.03 NOTICE TO CUT; NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   Written Notice to the Public. On or about April 15 of each calendar
year, or sooner or later as warranted by weather conditions and vegetation
growth, the City Manager shall cause a notice to appear in a newspaper of
general circulation in the City, informing the property owners within the City
of the requirements contained in Section
551.01. The notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   All properties within the City of Oakwood must be maintained in
accordance with Section
551.01 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Oakwood, which prohibits turf-
grass or weed growth in excess of eight inches.
      (2)   Should the owner of any property fail to comply with Section
551.02, the City will cause the weeds or turf-grass to be cut at the owner's
expense.
      (3)   The City will invoice the owner for all costs thereof, including
administrative costs, and if unpaid, will place a lien on the property for the
amount owed in accordance with Ohio R.C.731.54.
      (4)   Contact information for the appropriate City department.
   (b)   Placard. Upon verification that those weeds and/or turf-grasses
described in Sections
551.02 or
551.03 exist, the City Manager or his designee shall conspicuously post a
placard on the front door or in the front yard of the property for a period of
five (5) calendar days. The placard shall be of a size, shape and color so as
to be clearly visible and shall contain the following information:
      (1)    The nature of the Code violation;
      (2)    An order to cut the weeds or turf-grass within five (5) calendar
days;
      (3)   A statement indicating that should the property owner fail to
comply with the order, the City will cause the weeds or turf-grass to be cut at
the owner's expense, and the City will place a lien on the property for the
amount owed in accordance with Ohio R.C. 731.54;
      (4)   The penalties provided for removing the placard before bringing the
property into compliance; and
      (5)   Contact information of the appropriate City department.
   (c)   A placard, once posted, shall remain on the property until the
property is brought into compliance with Section
551.02. Removal of the placard before the property complies with Section
551.02 shall constitute a minor misdemeanor.
   (d)   Only one written, published notice need be made per calendar year, as
described in Section
551.03(a). It shall be the responsibility of each owner or any person, firm or
corporation having the care of or in charge of any lot of land within the City
to maintain the property thereafter in accordance with Section
551.02. Similarly, only one placard notice per lot or parcel, need be issued
per calendar year. Thereafter, if the City Manager or his or her designee
determines that a subsequent violation of this chapter has occurred, the City
may proceed with the remedies set forth in Section
551.04 without further notice.
(Ord. 4960. Passed 7-18-22.)
551.04 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE.
   (a)   If the owner, occupant, or other person or entity having charge or
care of any lot or land within the City fails to comply with the notice
provided for in Section
551.03(a), and fails to remedy such non-compliance during the 5-day period
following the posting of a placard upon such lot or land pursuant to Section
551.03(b), the City shall cut the weeds or grass to bring that lot or land into
compliance with this Chapter, at the expense of the owner(s) thereof.
 
   (b)   The City may, in its sole discretion, undertake such weed removal and/
or grass cutting by its own employees or through an independent contractor. In
calculating the expense to be charged to an owner of property under Section
551.04(a), chargeable expenses shall include all expenses actually incurred in
removing weeds and/or cutting grass at such lot or land, including, without
limitation, charges for the use of direct labor and administrative City
employees, charges for equipment, fuel, and the like, and any independent
contractor costs that may be incurred, all of which shall be assessed against
said lot or land.
(Ord. 4960. Passed 7-18-22.)
   
551.05 COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   (a)   Written notice of assessment shall be served by the City Manager or
his designee upon the owner(s) of the lot or land by ordinary US mail,
addressed to the then-current tax mailing address of the owner(s) then on file
with the Montgomery County Auditor, and shall be effective upon mailing. In the
event that the notice is returned as undeliverable, a City representative may
make service by posting the notice upon the assessed premises, and shall make a
return thereof. The amount of the assessment shall be paid and delivered to the
City within ten (10) calendar days after service of the notice is perfected by
mailing or posting.
   (b)   If the City has not received full payment of the assessment within
those ten (10) calendar days, the City shall make a written return or
certification to the Montgomery County Auditor of the amount of the unpaid
assessment, including with that certification a proper description of the
premises. The assessed amount shall be entered upon the tax duplicate and shall
be a lien upon such land from and after the date of the entry and shall be
collected as other taxes and returned to the City with the General Fund.
   (c)   Nothing in this Section
551.05 shall be construed to require the City to make separate assessments or
issue separate notices of assessment or certifications to the Montgomery County
Auditor for each weed removal or grass cutting that may occur with respect to
any particular property. In the case of vacant properties or other lots or
lands that may incur multiple assessments within a single growing season, the
City may elect to combine assessments, notices of assessment, and/or
certifications to the Montgomery County Auditor with respect to any particular
property, in monthly or other convenient intervals, so long as each assessment
is separately itemized.
(Ord. 4960. Passed 7-18-22.)
551.06 DESIGNATION OF NATURE AREAS; APPEALS.
   (a)   The City Manager shall designate which portions, if any, of publicly
owned
and privately owned land within this City are to be deemed public park nature
areas and
private lot nature areas. No area shall be so designated unless the City
Manager shall find with regard to such area:
      (1)   That the establishment and maintenance of that area will not be
detrimental to or will not endanger the public health, safety, morals, comfort,
convenience or general welfare;
      (2)   That the nature area will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment
of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted,
and that the nature area will not substantially diminish or impair property
values within the neighborhood; and
      (3)   That the establishment of the nature area will not impede the
normal and orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for
uses permitted as to such property.
   (b)   Appeal of the City Manager's Decision. If dissatisfied with a decision
of the City Manager to designate or not designate particular land as a nature
area, a party may appeal the decision to the General Appeals Board established
under Chapter 169 of the Codified Ordinances of the City. Standing to file such
an appeal shall be limited to the owners or occupants of the subject property
and the owners or occupants of any property located within 200 feet of the
subject property.
   Any appeal shall be made by delivering written notice of the appeal to the
office of the City Manager within fourteen (14) days after issuance of the
Manager's decision. The notice of appeal shall satisfy the following
requirements:
      (1)   It must specify the name and address of the appellant, the decision
from which an appeal is taken, and the location of the subject property and
prospective nature area; and
      (2)   It must cite specific error by the Manager and any other grounds
relied upon in support of the appeal.
   Any such appeal shall be made and processed in accordance with appeal
procedures set forth in Section
1007  of the ordinances of this City with regard to appeals to the Zoning
Appeals Board.
   Upon receipt of a timely notice of appeal, the Building Commissioner shall
schedule a date for a public hearing thereon before the General Appeals Board.
The Building Commissioner shall give written notice of the appeal and of public
hearing on that appeal to the applicant and to each owner of real property
within 200 feet of the lot on which the nature area, or the desired nature
area, is or is proposed to be located. For the applicant, notice of the public
hearing shall be sent by ordinary US mail to the address set forth on the
notice of appeal. For all other parties entitled to notice of the public
hearing, it shall be sufficient to provide notice by ordinary US mail addressed
to the party's then-current tax mailing address on file with the Montgomery
County Auditor, or by any other method reasonably calculated to reach the
intended recipient.
   (c)   Determinations by the City Manager that public or private property is
or is not to be designated as public park nature area or private lot nature
area shall be effective for one year at a time plus such additional number of
days, weeks or months as may elapse until a new determination is made. (Ord.
4960. Passed 7-18-22.)
551.07 MANAGED NATURAL LANDSCAPE AREAS.
   (a)   An owner, authorized agent, or authorized occupant of any privately
owned lands may, consistent with this subsection and all other applicable laws,
statutes, rules, and ordinances, install and maintain a managed natural
landscape area, provided that no such area may be installed or maintained upon
the right-of-way strip between the sidewalk and street.
   (b)   Height requirement. The height restrictions provided in Section
551.02 shall not apply to natural plants, other than turf-grasses or noxious
weeds, on privately owned, occupied residential property and properties
contiguous to the privately owned, occupied residential property provided that
such contiguous properties are owned by the same individual, when such natural
plants are part of a managed natural landscape area. Nothing in this provision
shall be construed to permit plant material of a height that causes an
obstruction to appropriate roadway visibility, as regulated by Section
907 of the Oakwood Streets and Public Services Code, or plant material that by
reason of its height is otherwise unsafe or hazardous to the public health,
safety, and welfare.
   (c)   Overhanging vegetation. Managed natural landscaped areas shall not be
permitted to overhang or encroach onto any public or private properties, or
public sidewalks, streets, or alleys adjacent to the lot, tract or parcel on
which they are planted. With the exception of trees, all vegetation in the
right-of-way strip between the sidewalk and street must be kept at a height of
less than eight (8) inches. (Ord. 4960. Passed 7-18-22.)
551.99 PENALTY.
   (EDITOR'S NOTE: See Section
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.)
(Ord. 4960. Passed 7-18-22.)
CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF OAKWOOD
PART SEVEN - BUSINESS REGULATIONS CODE
      Chapter
702 .   Garage Sales.
      Chapter
709 .   Circuses, Carnivals and Amusement Rides.
      Chapter
711 .   Massage Establishment.
      
      Chapter
717 .   Meat and Meat Products.
   
      Chapter
725 .   Selling Products in Streets.
      Chapter
729 .   Mobile Food Vehicle Vendors.
      Chapter
733 .   Peddlers and Solicitors.
      Chapter
741 .   Sidewalk, Curb and Gutter Contractors.
      Chapter
747 .   Drive-in Restaurants.
      Chapter
751 .   Alarm Systems.
      Chapter
759 .   Business Regulation Appeals Board.
CHAPTER 702
Garage Sales
702.01   Definition.
702.02   Time limitations.
702.03   Sale of food prohibited.
702.04   Block garage sales.
702.05   Prohibited areas.
702.06   No attendance fee or charge.
702.07   Two sales each year.
702.08   Advertising.
702.99   Penalty.
 
 
702.01 DEFINITION.
   "Garage sale" as used in this chapter means the sale or offer for sale of
over five items of personal property to the general public on any portion of a
residential zoning lot, whether within or outside any building.
702.02 TIME LIMITATION.
   Garage sales may be held only from 8:00 a.m. to sundown on weekdays and
Saturdays and from 9:00 a.m. to sundown on Sundays and holidays. No sale may
extend for more than three (3) consecutive days. Any portion of a day shall be
counted as a full day.
702.03 SALE OF FOOD PROHIBITED.
   No person conducting a garage sale shall sell or offer for sale any food or
beverage for consumption on the premises. Food or beverages may be provided for
such consumption at no cost to the consumer, but only if a permit is obtained
in advance from the Board of Health of this City.
   
702.04 BLOCK GARAGE SALES.
   By submitting the unanimous written consent of all adult residents who are
the heads of any household on a residential block, a request may be made to the
City for permission to have a "block garage sale." Such a request shall be
granted subject to the restriction of this chapter and to any additional
conditions or limitations which the City reasonably determines are necessary or
appropriate for protection of the public peace, health, safety or welfare. If
it is proposed that such a sale will involve blocking off the street so as to
interfere with the free and uninterrupted use by the public of that street, an
application to the City shall be made in the manner provided in Codified
Ordinance
311.02.
702.05 PROHIBITED AREAS.
   No such garage sale may be conducted on any front porch or corner side
porch, in any surplus or required front yard, or in any surplus or required
corner side yard of any zoning lot. These area prohibitions shall not apply to
a block garage sale except with regard to corner side porches and surplus and
required corner side yards.
 
702.06 NO ATTENDANCE FEE OR CHARGE.
   No fee or other charge shall be imposed upon members of the public attending
any garage sale.
702.07 TWO SALES EACH YEAR.
   No more than two garage sales per dwelling unit may be held on any zoning
lot inany calendar year. As to any other use (i.e., other than a dwelling unit)
on a residential zoning lot, no more than two such sales per calendar year may
be held by or on behalf of each separate group or organization which forms a
part of the allowable zoning purposes of such other use (for example, a school
band is one such separate group and a school athletic team is another), subject
to the following exceptions:
   A.   One additional sale shall be allowed if it is by or through the estate
orguardian of a resident of that lot, or results from a resident moving away
from that lot to another dwelling.
   B.   In any event, sales of programs and food and beverage items at school
athletic events shall not be deemed to constitute garage sales.
702.08 ADVERTISING.
   No balloons, streamers, special lighting, noise-making devices or other
advertising displays or notices may be used on the residential zoning lot to
call attention to the garage sale, with the exception that one non-illuminated
sign may be used as an accessory use permitted under or through Section
1119.06.
702.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor so as to be fined not more than $100.00. Any such violation shall
constitute a separate offense on each successive day it is continued.
Legislative history: (Ord. 3105, passed 12/17/79; Ord. 3329, passed 2/7/83)
(Ord. 3684, passed 8/24/87)
CHAPTER 709
Circuses, Carnivals and Amusement Rides
709.01   Licenses required; location and duration.
709.02   Deposit required.
709.03   License fee.
709.04   Fee waiver in civic interest.
709.05   Liability and property damage insurance.
709.99   Penalty.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Power to regulate - see ORC 715.48, 715.63, 3765.02.
Contests or games at county fairs - see ORC 1711.09, 1711.11.
County license for public sows - see ORC 3765.
Gambling - see GEN. OFF. Ch.
513.
Sidewalk obstructions and protection during transporting operations - see GEN.
OFF.
517.04.
Littering - see GEN. OFF.
517.08.
Noxious or offensive odors - see GEN. OFF.
517.09.
Immoral exhibitions prohibited - see GEN. OFF.
521.06.
 
 
709.01 LICENSES REQUIRED; LOCATION AND DURATION.
   A.   Each person desiring to conduct, stage or give a circus, carnival,
sideshow or amusement rides for which money or reward is demanded or received
shall first obtain a license and pay the required license fee or fees.
   B.   The applicant for a license to conduct, stage or give such an activity
shall give at least one week's notice in writing to the City Manager or his
authorized representative, stating the date of the activity and the location at
which it is to be conducted. The City Manager or his authorized representative
shall give his consent to the issuance of such license if he deems that the
location is suitable for the purpose, that it will properly accommodate the
patrons, and that the use of the location will not throw too great a burden
upon the Safety Department or adversely affect the health, safety or welfare of
the City residents.
   C.   No circus, carnival, sideshow or amusement rides shall be given for
more than two consecutive days, unless Council by special resolution shall
allow a longer period, or unless such exhibition activity is to be conducted on
City property and the use thereof for a longer period shall have been approved
by Council.
709.02 DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   At the time such application for a license is made and the use of City
grounds or public streets is contemplated, the applicant shall deposit with the
City a cash bond. In 1991, this bond shall be $200.00 in the case of activities
in which no animals perform or are exhibited, and $500.00 with respect to
activities in which animals do perform or are exhibited or which, in the
opinion of the City Manager or his authorized representative, involve an
unusual burden on City services or likelihood of creating problems of public
safety, public health, cleanliness or destruction of property. In 1992 and
subsequent years, the bond amounts shall increase or decrease in proportion to
changes in the Consumer Price Index maintained by the U.S. Department of Labor,
or if it no longer exists by a federal government index closest to the concept
of that index.
   The deposit shall be conditioned upon the restoration and cleaning up of the
municipal grounds and public streets used and the proper conduct and management
of the shows in the best public interest. In the event the grounds shall be
restored and cleaned up properly and promptly following the activity, and all
other conditions imposed with respect to the deposit have been observed, the
deposit shall be returned. Otherwise, the deposit, or that part of it
determined by the City Manager to provide adequate compensation for the
nonperformance of the conditions upon which the deposit was made, shall be
forfeited to the City.
   If the amount of any necessary City services or materials exceeds the amount
of the deposit, the excess shall be due and payable from the licensee to the
City immediately. If not so paid the City Attorney shall use such legal
proceedings as he deems appropriate in an attempt to collect the amount owed,
plus a penalty of 10% of the actual cost to the City for failure to pay
promptly.
709.03 LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for such license shall be set by the City Manager under Section
153.01 of the Administrative Code.
709.04 FEE WAIVER IN CIVIC INTEREST.
   The City Manager shall have discretion to waive any license fee under this
chapter for not more than six consecutive days if all of the performances are
fostered and supervised by civic interests of the City, and if substantial
portions of the funds derived from the activity are expended for charitable or
civic purposes.
709.05 LIABILITY AND PROPERTY DAMAGE INSURANCE.
   At the time an application for a license is made and use of municipal
grounds or public streets is contemplated, the applicant shall also furnish the
City Manager or his authorized representative proof of bodily injury and
property damage insurance provided to the applicant by any company authorized
by the State of Ohio to engage in the insurance business. The minimum
permissible coverage shall be $750,000.00 for each person and 1,000,000.00 for
bodily injury liability from each accident, and $50,000.00 for property damage
liability from each accident. All that coverage must be available through the
policy so as not to have been used as part of an aggregate limitation. Such
insurance policy must provide that it is not cancellable until the event will
be completed within the number ofdays permitted by this chapter. It must be an
"occurrence" policy so as to honor claims made after expiration or
cancellation. The deductible amount must not exceed a reasonable amount
determined by the City Manager, since no insurance protection would be
available for that deductible portion. The Manager may require that the city be
listed as an additional insured on the policy.
 
709.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of fourth
degree misdemeanor. Any such violation shall constitute a separate offense on
each successive day it is continued. This criminal law procedure shall be in
addition to injunctive action any other civil remedies.
Legislative History: Ord. 2923 passed 5/19/75.
CHAPTER 711
Massage Establishment
711.01   Definitions.
711.02   License Required.
711.03   Exemptions.
711.04   Application for massage establishment license; fee.   
711.05   Issuance of license for massage establishment; effective period.
711.06   Revocation or suspension of establishment license.
711.07   Application for massage technician license; fee.
711.08   Issuance of license for technician; effective period.
711.09   Revocation or suspension of massage technician license.
711.10   Required facilities.
711.11   Operating requirements.
711.12   Out-call massage service.
711.13   Transfer of licenses.
711.14   Rules and regulations.
711.15   Application to current pratitioners.
711.99   Penalty.
 
 
711.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (a)   "Employee" means any and all persons, other than the massage
technician, who renders any service to the operator, and who receive
compensation directly from the operator.
   (b)   "Massage" means any method of pressure on, or friction against, or
stroking, kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of,
the external soft parts of the body with the hands or with the aid of any
mechanical or electrical apparatus or appliance with or without such
supplementary aids as rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils, powder,
creams, lotions, ointments or other similar preparations commonly used in this
practice for a purpose other than the treatment of disorders of the human body.
   (c)   "Massage establishment" means any establishment having a fixed or
mobile place of business where any person, firm, association or corporation
engages in, or carries on, or permits to be engaged in or carried on, any of
the activities mentioned in subsection (b)   hereof for any consideration
whatsoever.
   (d)   "Massage technician" means any person who, for any consideration
whatsoever, engages in the practice of massage as defined in subsection
(b)   hereof.
   (e)   "Operator" means the permit operator of a massage establishment.
   (f)   "Out-call massage service" means any business, the function of which
is to engage in or carry on massages at a location designated by the customer
or client rather than at a massage establishment.
   (g)   "Person" means any individual, co-partnership, firm, association,
joint stock company, corporation or combination of individuals of whatever form
or character.
   (h)   "Sexual or genital area" means the genitals, pubic area, buttocks,
anus or perineum of any person, or the vulva or breasts of a female.
 
711.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   No person shall advertise, engage in, conduct or carry on, or permit
to be engaged in, conducted or carried on, in or upon any premises in the City,
the operation of a massage establishment as herein defined, unless such massage
establishment shall be licensed under this chapter.
   (b)   No person shall engage in the business of or be employed as a massage
technician in the City unless he or she has obtained a license from the City
Manager or his or her designate.
711.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Hospitals, nursing homes and public health centers;
      (2)   The offices of a person who is licensed or registered by the State
of Ohio Medical Board which are used while performing the licensed or
registered profession;
      (3)   A licensed barber shop, beauty salon, school of cosmetology or
barber's school, while used to perform the licensed vocation;
      (4)   The offices of a licensed chiropractor or physical therapist while
used to perform the licensed profession.
   (b)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   A person licensed or registered by the State of Ohio Medical Board
while performing the licensed or registered profession;
      (2)   Licensed cosmetologists, registered barbers, registered barber
apprentices, licensed chiropractors, licensed practical nurses, registered
nurses, licensed physical therapists and licensed physical therapist assistants
while performing said profession or vocation;
      (3)   A person working under the direction or supervision of individuals
mentioned in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) hereof while performing the said
profession or vocation.
711.04 APPLICATION FOR MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE; FEE.
   (a)   Application for a license to operate a massage establishment,
including a renewal license, required by Section
711.02(a), shall be made pursuant to this chapter at the office of the City
Manager on a form provided. Each application shall include a filing fee of two
hundreddollars ($200.00) which shall not be refundable.
   (b)   The application for a license to operate a massage establishment shall
set forth the exact nature of the massage to be administered and the proposed
place of business and facilities therefor.
 
   (c)   In addition to the foregoing, the applicant for a license, including
any partner or limited partner of a partnership, and any officer or director of
a corporate applicant, and any stockholder holding more than ten percent of the
stock of a corporate applicant,
shall furnish the following information:
      (1)   The applicant's name, address and social security number;
      (2)   A certified copy of the applicant's birth certificate which
evidences that the applicant is at least eighteen years of age;
      (3)   All residential addresses of the applicant for the past three
years;
      (4)   The applicant's physical description, including height, weight,
color of eyes and hair;
      (5)   The business, occupation or employment of the applicant for the
three years immediately preceding the date of the application;
      (6)   The business history of the applicant regarding previous licenses
obtained or refused from any governmental agency, including revocations and
suspensions and the reasons therefor;
      (7)   Criminal history information, including the date, time and place of
conviction for all violations except traffic offenses;
      (8)   A set of fingerprints obtained by the Division of Police and a
recent two- inch by two-inch color photograph of the applicant;
      (9)   If the applicant is a corporation, or a partner of a partnership
which is incorporated, the name of the corporation, which shall be set forth
exactly as shown on the Articles of Incorporation.
711.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE FOR MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT; EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   (a)   The City Manager or his or her designate, pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter, shall issue the license to maintain, operate or conduct a
massage establishment to a designated person for a specific location upon
receipt of an application, unless he or she finds:
      (1)   That the operation, as proposed by the applicant, if permitted,
would not be in compliance with applicable laws, including, but not limited to,
the building, health, planning, zoning and fire laws of the City and the
housing code of the County, as well as the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   That the applicant and any other person who will be directly or
indirectly engaged in the management and operation of a massage establishment
has been convicted of two or more felonies within the past five years or any
sex offense within the past five years; or
      (3)   That the applicant does not contain all the required information or
the application contains a material misrepresentation.
   (b)   A massage establishment license issued pursuant to this chapter shall
terminate at the expiration of one year from the date of its issuance unless
subject to suspension or revocation.
 
711.06 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE.
   (a)   The City Manager or his or her designate shall refuse to issue or
renew a massage establishment license or may revoke or suspend such license
when he or she finds that:
      (1)   A section of this chapter was violated upon the establishment
premises.
      (2)   A violation of another provision of this Municipal Code or of the
Ohio Revised Code was committed upon the establishment premises.
      (3)   A material misrepresentation was made upon the application for a
massage establishment permit.
      (4)   A law enforcement officer or health inspector was refused
permission to inspect the premises or operation of the massage establishment
during the hours of operation.
      (5)   A person who is not a licensed massage technician has administered
a massage at the premises of the massage establishment.
   (b)   The issuance, renewal, denial, suspension or revocation of a massage
establishment license shall be made pursuant to the provisions of this chapter,
and any appeal of any such order shall be made to Council, in writing, within
ten days following the date of any such order. Any appeal shall be heard by
Council at its next regularly scheduled meeting following the filing of the
appeal. At such hearing the person filing the appeal may appear in person or be
represented by attorney and present such witnesses and evidence that he or she
may desire. The City Manager or his or her designate may appear and present
such witnesses and evidence as may be necessary to support his or her action. A
simple majority of the Council membership shall affirm, reverse or modify the
decision appealed from and their decision shall be final.
711.07 APPLICATION FOR MASSAGE TECHNICIAN LICENSE; FEE.
   (a)   Application for the license required by Section
711.02, including a renewal license, shall be made pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter at the office of the City Manager on a form provided. Each
application shall include a filing fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00), which
shall not be refundable.
   (b)   The application for a permit to operate as a massage technician shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   The applicant's name, residence address and social security number;
      (2)   A physical description of the applicant, setting forth the
applicant's weight, height, hair color and color of eyes;
      (3)   A recent two-inch by two-inch color photograph of the applicant and
a set of fingerprints obtained by the Division of Police;
      (4)   A certified copy of the applicant's birth certificate which
evidences that the applicant is at least eighteen years of age;
      (5)   The business, occupation and employment of the applicant for a
three-year period preceding the date of the application;
      (6)   Criminal history information, including the date, time and place of
all convictions for all violations except traffic offenses;
      (7)   Certification that the applicant has satisfactorily completed 160
hours of course instruction in anatomy, physiology and massage at a school of
massage approved by the Ohio State Medical Board.
711.08 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE FOR MASSAGE TECHNICIAN; EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   (a)   The City Manager or his or her designate shall, pursuant to this
chapter, issue the license to engage in the business of or to be employed as a
massage technician in the City upon receipt of an application, unless he or she
finds that
      (1)   The applicant has been convicted of two or more felonies within the
past five years or any sex offense within the past five years.
      (2)   The application does not contain all the required information or
the application contains a material misrepresentation.
   (b)   A massage technician license issued pursuant to this chapter shall
terminate at the expiration of one year from the date of its issuance unless
subject to suspension or revocation.
711.09 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF MASSAGE TECHNICIAN LICENSE.
   (a)   The City Manager or his or her designate shall refuse to issue or
renew a massage technician license or may revoke or suspend such license where
he or she finds any of the following:
      (1)   The massage technician has been convicted of two or more felonies
within the past five years or any sex offense within the past five years.
      (2)   The massage technician violated any of the provisions of this
chapter.
   (b)   The issuance, renewal, denial, suspension or revocation of a massage
technician license shall be pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, and the
appeal of any such order shall be to Council in the same manner as provided in
Section
711.06(b).
711.10 REQUIRED FACILITIES.
   No license to conduct a massage establishment shall be issued, renewed or
continued unless an inspection discloses that the establishment complies with
each of the following minimum requirements:
   (a)   A readable sign shall be displayed at the main entrance identifying
the establishment as a massage establishment. All such signs shall be in
compliance with the Zoning Code.
   (b)   Adequate equipment for disinfecting and sterilizing any instruments
used for massage shall be provided.
    (c)   Hot and cold running water shall be provided.
   (d)   Closed cabinets shall be utilized for the storage of clean linen.
   (e)   Adequate dressing and toilet facilities shall be provided to patrons.
   (f)   All walls, ceilings, floors, steam or vapor rooms and all other
physical facilities for the establishment shall be kept in good repair and
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (g)   Clean and sanitary towels shall be provided for patrons receiving
massage services. No common use of towels or linens shall be permitted.
711.11 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   No license to conduct a massage establishment or to engage in the
business of or be employed as a massage technician shall be issued, renewed or
continued unless each of the following provisions is complied with by the
massage establishment and/or massage technician:
      (1)   No massage technician shall administer a massage unless completely
clothed in clean nontransparent garments at all times. The term "completely
clothed" shall mean having on the upper portion of the body undergarments and
either a blouse or a shirt which covers all of the upper body except the arms,
neck and head, and on the lower body undergarments plus either pants or a skirt
which covers the area from the waist to a point at least two inches above the
knee.
      (2)   The massage patrons private parts shall be covered by a towel,
cloth or undergarments when in the presence of a massage technician or massage
establishment employee.
      (3)   A massage technician and massage establishment shall display Ms,
her or its license in a conspicuous place where the massage is being
administered.
      (4)   No massage technician shall engage in such business or profession
except between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 9:30 p.m., nor shall any operator of
a massage establishment or business operate the same except between such hours.
      (5)   A massage establishment operator and a massage technician shall
maintain for a period of one year correct and accurate records of the names and
addresses of all persons to whom massages are administered, the date and time
administered, the type of massage administered and the name of the person who
administered the massage. Said records shall be subject to inspection during
the hours of operation by any officer of the Division of Police.
      (6)   A massage technician shall not administer a massage to an
individual of the opposite sex.
      (7)   The massage establishment facilities shall be subject to inspection
by law enforcement officers or health inspectors during working or operating
hours to assure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (8)   A massage technician shall not fondle, touch or massage the sexual
or genital area of any patron.
       (9)   A massage establishment operator shall provide the names of all
employees and massage technicians working for the establishment to the office
of the Manager within two days of the date the individual is employed.
   (b)   No massage technician or massage establishment operator shall
knowingly violate a provision of subsection (a) hereof.
711.12 OUT-CALL MASSAGE SERVICE.
   No massage technician or massage establishment shall provide an "out-call
massage service" which is not in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
711.13 TRANSFER OF LICENSES.
   (a)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable to another
person or location without the express written authorization of the City
Manager or his or her designate.
   (b)   The change of location of a massage establishment shall require the
submission of a new application and the issuance of a new license.
711.14 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Manager or his or her designate may make and enforce reasonable
rules and regulations to carry out the intent of this chapter.
711.15 APPLICATION TO CURRENT PRACTITIONERS.
   Any person who is actually engaged as a massage technician or an operator of
a massage establishment upon the effective date of this chapter shall have
sixty days from that day to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
However, a person operating as a massage technician on the date of passage of
this chapter and who is otherwise operating in compliance with this chapter and
who enrolls within sixty days from the effective date of this chapter in a
school of massage, approved by the Ohio State Medical Board, may continue to
operate as a massage technician as long as said enrollment continues, but not
to exceed a period of one year.
711.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than sixty days, or both, for each
offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
Legislative History: Ord. 4444, passed 9/13/99.
CHAPTER 717
Meat and Meat Products
717.01   Definition.
717.02   Sales from vehicles and hand-carried containers.
717.03   Minimum quantity; identity of seller.
717.04   Inspection required.
717.99   Penalty.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Power to inspect food products - see ORC 715.46.
Pure food and drug law - see ORC Ch. 3715.
Peddlers, solicitors and hucksters - see BUS. REG. Ch.
733.
 
 
717.01 DEFINITION.
   As used in this chapter, "meat or meat product" means the flesh or viscera
of cattle, calves, sheep, swine and goats, and any edible product of same.
717.02 SALES FROM VEHICLES AND HAND-CARRIED CONTAINERS.
   No person shall peddle, hawk, sell, vend, dispose of, or offer or exhibit
for the purpose of doing so any meat or meat products from. This chapter shall
not be construed to affect the wholesale delivery of meat and meat products
from inspected packing houses to retail establishments in the City.
717.03 MINIMUM QUANTITY; IDENTITY OF SELLER.
   A.   No person except a retail butcher shall sell, or offer or exhibit for
the purpose of doing so, in the City any article of fresh meat whatsoever in
any quantity less than 1/4 of the animal.
   B.   No person except a retail butcher doing business in a regular
established retail store shall sell or offer for sale in the City any sausage
or pudding made of fresh meat or other ingredients, any spareribs, tenderloins,
pig's feet or backbones, unless such meat has been raised by the person
offering the same for sale.
717.04 INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   No person shall dispose of, sell, offer for sale or have in his possession
for sale, whether at wholesale or retail prices, any meat or meat product
within the City unless such meat or meat product has been inspected by the Ohio
Department of Agriculture or bears the inspection mark of the Ohio or federal
Department of Agriculture.
 
717.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for a first offense shall be
guilty of a minor misdemeanor and for a second or subsequent offense shall be
guilty of a fourth degree misdemeanor.
Legislative history: (Ord. 988, passed 11/17/30.)
CHAPTER 725
Selling Products in Streets
 
725.01    Sales prohibited except in Business Districts.
725.02   No soliciting in roadways.
725.99   Penalty.
 
 
725.01 STREET SALES PROHIBITED EXCEPT IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   No person shall offer for sale any thing or product within any street right-
of-way in the city other than that portion of a street in the business district
(as defined in the zoning code) as to which a permit has been issued under
Section
901.01 for such an activity. This prohibition shall not apply to the selling of
any newspaper which has a general circulation throughout the city, nor to the
otherwise lawful operation of any duly-licensed mobile food vehicle business.
725.02 NO SOLICITING IN ROADWAYS.
   No person shall stand on the roadway portion of any street for the purpose
of soliciting business, contributions or employment from the occupants of any
vehicle or any other persons. (See Traf.
371.06 B for same rule.)
725.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor for a first offense and for a second or subsequent offense shall be
guilty of a fourth degree misdemeanor.
Legislative history:   Ord. 3976, passed 6/18/90; effective 7/18/90; Ord. 4141,
passed 6/15/92; ORC 4511.51; Ord. 4864, passed 8/6/2018; effective 9/5/2018.
CHAPTER 729
Mobile Food Vehicle Vendors
729.01   Definitions
729.02   Authority to Issue Permit
729.03   Permit Required
729.04   Form and Condition of Permit
729.05   Permit Fee
729.06   General Operating Restrictions.
729.07   Suspension and Revocation.
729.08   Closure for Operation Without a Permit
729.09   Appeals
729.99   Penalty
 
 
729.01 DEFINITIONS
   Within this Chapter, words with specific defined meanings are as follows:
   A.   "City" means the city of Oakwood, Ohio.
   B.   "City Manager" means the City Manager or his/her designee.
   C.   “Mobile food vehicle" means a commercially manufactured, self-
contained, motorized, vehicle currently licensed by the Ohio Department of
Motor Vehicles in which ready-to-eat food is cooked, wrapped, packaged,
processed or portioned for service, sale or distribution.
   D.   "Operate" or "operation" means engaging in the business or activity of
mobile service, sale or distribution of ready-to-eat food.
   E.   "Temporary use" means a short term or seasonal use intended to promote
or sell specific merchandise or products and shall include, but not be limited
to, special events, sidewalk sales, and outdoor seasonal sales.
729.02 AUTHORITY TO ISSUE PERMIT
   The City Manager is hereby authorized to grant, issue, deny, condition, and
revoke permits pursuant to this Chapter.
729.03 PERMIT REQUIRED
   A.   Any person desiring to operate a mobile food vehicle shall make a
written application for such permit to the City Manager's Office. The
application for such permit shall be on forms provided by the City Manager and
shall include the following:
      1.   Name, signature and address of each applicant, and each corporate
officer of the mobile food vehicle vending corporation if incorporated.
       2.   A valid copy of all necessary licenses, permits or certificates
required by the County of Montgomery, the State of Ohio or any subsidiary
enforcement agencies or departments thereof, including, but not limited to: a
valid Ohio Department of Motor Vehicle Registration and Certificate of
Inspection and valid driver's licenses of all vehicle operators.
      3.   A description of the event for which the applicant seeks a permit.
The description should include, at a minimum, the following information:
         a.   The date of the event;
         b.   The name of the Oakwood property owner sponsoring the event;
         c.   The street address where the event is being held;
         d.   The hours/duration of the event;
         e.   The applicant's hours of operation at the event;
         f.   The name or general nature of the event (e.g., "That Day in May,"
graduation party, wedding, block party, etc.); and
         g.   A good faith estimate of the anticipated total number of
participants/guests attending the event.
      4.   A signed statement that the vendor shall indemnify and hold the City
and its officers and employees harmless for any claims for damage to property
or injury to persons which may be occasioned by any activity carried out under
terms of the permit. Vendor shall furnish and maintain such public liability,
food products liability, and property insurance, as will protect vendor and the
City from all claims for damage to property or bodily injury, including death,
which may arise from the operations under the permit or in connection
therewith. Such insurance shall provide coverage of not less than one million
dollars ($1,000,000) per occurrence. A permit issued pursuant to the provisions
of this Chapter shall be invalid at any time the insurance required herein is
not maintained.
   B.   For purposes of this ordinance, any of the following shall constitute
one (1) event for determining permit requirements:
      1.   Single-instance: An event that occurs once, on one specific day at a
specific time. By way of example and not of limitation, a wedding or graduation
party would constitute one (1) "single-instance" event.
      2.   Multi-day: An event that occurs once, over a span of not more than
three consecutive days. By way of example and not of limitation, a festival
lasting three or fewer consecutive days would constitute one (1) "multi-day"
event.
      3.   Regularly-recurring: An event that occurs on a weekly or monthly
basis, at a fixed location on or abutting a street closed to vehicular traffic,
where such event is held on the same day and at generally the same time each
week or month. For purposes of this provision, all weekly or monthly incidents
of a "regularly-recurring" event, within the same calendar year, shall be taken
together and deemed a single event. By way of example and not of limitation,
all instances of a weekly farmers' market within one calendar year would
constitute one (1) "recurring" event.
   C.   Upon receipt and verification of a complete application, including all
submittals that may be required and the appropriate permit fee, the City
Manager shall grant and issue the permit unless grounds exist for denying the
same.
   D.   The City Manager shall deny a permit under this Chapter for any of the
following reasons:
      1.   Failure to pay the appropriate permit fee;
      2.   Failure to submit all required materials with the application for a
permit under this Chapter;
      3.   The applicant owes outstanding financial or other obligations to the
City;
       4.   If, in the City Manager's opinion, any of the following conditions
exist and cannot be eliminated by the imposition of reasonable conditions on
the permit:
         a.   The application was not submitted in connection with a particular
event sponsored by an Oakwood property owner.
         b.   The issuance of the permit would result in mobile food vehicle
operation before 9:00 am and/or after 9:00 pm.
         c.   The issuance of the permit would cause, contribute to, or
exacerbate undesirable traffic or parking congestion.
         d.   The issuance of the permit would impede access to public
buildings or facilities, or would interfere with the delivery of governmental
and/or emergency services.
         e.   For a particular single-instance or multi-day event, or for a
particular instance of a regularly-recurring event, three or more permits have
already been issued (unless the City Manager determines that the anticipated
crowd size and location can reasonably justify and accommodate additional
permits). Permits are issued on a first-come-first-served basis; no more than
three permits will be issued for a particular single-instance or multi-day
event, or for a particular instance of a regularly-recurring event unless the
City Manager makes the determination described in this paragraph.
         f.   The permit was requested in connection with operation on any
alley; or on Far Hills Avenue, Shroyer Road, Patterson Road, East/West Schantz
Avenue between Oakwood Avenue and the Oakwood/Kettering corporate line, or on
Oakwood Avenue between Far Hills and Irving Avenues, or on Park Avenue between
Far Hills and Harman Avenues; or on any street that may hereafter become
designated as a thoroughfare street; unless such right-of-way has been closed
to regular traffic for a particular event and the mobile food vehicle is
participating in that event.
         g.   The issuance of the permit would endanger the public health,
safety, and/or welfare.
   The City Manager or his or her designee shall give written notice to the
applicant of a denial of any permit under this Chapter.
729.04 FORM AND CONDITION OF PERMIT
   Every mobile food vehicle vending permit shall contain the following
conditions:
   A.   The permit is valid only for the date(s) and time(s) specified thereon;
   B.   The permit holder is responsible for operation in accordance with all
applicable laws;
   C.   The permit shall not be transferable without written approval of the
City Manager;
   D.   The permit is valid for one mobile food vehicle only;
   E.   The permit shall be placed on the mobile food vehicle's dashboard or
hung from the inside rear view mirror where it can be readily seen by the
public, and shall be displayed at all times of permitted operation; and
   F.   Any other condition imposed by the City Manager pursuant to this
Chapter.
 
729.05 PERMIT FEE
   All permit applications submitted under this Chapter shall include a non-
refundable permit fee of ten dollars ($10.00), provided however that the City
Manager may increase this fee, not more than once per year, as he or she may
determine is necessary to recover the city's reasonable costs incurred in
administering this Chapter.
729.06 GENERAL OPERATING RESTRICTIONS
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a mobile food vehicle
within the City, whether on public or private property, without first having
obtained a valid mobile food vending permit as prescribed in this Chapter, or
in violation of the terms of such permit if one has been issued.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle other than a
mobile food vehicle for the service, sale, or distribution of ready-to-eat food
in the City.
   C.   A mobile food vehicle shall not be operated or parked so as to obstruct
or impede the normal movement of traffic.
   D.   A mobile food vehicle shall be parked or stopped with the curb-side
wheels parallel with and not more than twelve inches from the curb when food
items are sold, dispensed or prepared.
   E.   All items shall be sold, offered for sale or dispensed only from the
right hand (curb-side) of a mobile food vehicle.
   F.   Flashing lights shall be operated continuously at all times when a
mobile food vehicle is parked or stopped so as to be clearly visible to drivers
of other vehicles approaching such vehicle from the front or rear.
   G.   Sound emanating from a mobile food vehicle shall be in accordance with
all noise regulations under state and local law.
   H.   The restrictions set forth above in Sections
729.06(D), (E), and (F) shall not apply if the mobile food vehicle is operated
on a public right-of-way that has been closed to regular vehicular traffic for
a particular event, and only if and to the extent that the mobile food vehicle
is participating in that event.
729.07 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION
   A.   The owner/operator of any mobile food vehicle permitted by the City
shall comply with all provisions of Federal, State and local laws and
ordinances.
   B.   The owner/operator of any mobile food vehicle permitted by the City
shall comply with all notices, orders, decisions and rules and regulations made
by the City Manager, the Department of Public Safety, or any other City
department.
 
   C.   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity violating the provisions
of this Chapter may be liable for penalties as prescribed in Section
729.99 and may be subject to immediate closure by the Department of Public
Safety and/or the City Manager's Office.
729.08 CLOSURE FOR OPERATION WITHOUT A PERMIT
   Any mobile food vehicle operating without the required City permit shall be
immediately closed by order of the Department of Public Safety and/or the City
Manager's Office. Each day of operation without a permit shall constitute a
separate violation.
729.09 APPEALS
   The applicant may appeal the denial or revocation of a permit to the General
Appeals Board, as constituted pursuant to Chapter
169  of the Oakwood Administrative Code, by filing a written notice of appeal
with the Clerk of Council within ten days after such denial or revocation.
   The following procedures shall govern appeals under this Section:
   A.   In the event that a notice of appeal is incomplete or not timely filed,
or is otherwise not filed consistent with this Section, the applicant's right
of appeal shall lapse.
   B.   The written appeal shall:
      1.   Cite specific provisions of this Chapter that are alleged to have
been interpreted in error, or the specific grounds on which the appeal is being
made;
      2.   Include any required application fee in an amount set by the City
Manager and set forth in the city's permit fee schedule; and
      3.   Include such other information as may be necessary to render a
reasonable decision.
   C.   The applicant must appear, with or without counsel, at the hearing of
the appeal. The applicant's failure to attend the appeal hearing shall
constitute grounds for the dismissal of the appeal.
   D.   The applicant, the City Manager, or the City Manager's designee, may
appeal the decision of the Board of General Appeals in accordance with Section
169.01 (C) of the Oakwood Administrative Code.
729.99 PENALTY
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this Chapter is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
Legislative History: Ord. 4863, passed 8/6/2018, effective 9/5/2018; Ord. 4881,
passed 4/1/2019, effective 5/1/2019.
CHAPTER 733
Peddlers and Solicitors
733.01   Definitions
733.02   Authority to Issue License
733.03   License or Registration Required
733.04   License Application
733.05   License Waiting Period; Investigation
733.06   License Application Fees
733.07   License Expiration; Revocation or Suspension
733.08   Exceptions from License and Fees
733.09   Compliance with State Law
733.10   Falsification; Misrepresentation
733.11   Hours of Solicitation
733.12   Prohibited Soliciting; Notice
733.13   Appeals
733.14   Severability
733.99   Penalty
 
 
733.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   A.   " Canvassing," " canvassers" and " canvass" means the house-to-house
distribution of ideas, pamphlets, literature, and the like, or the collection
of signatures or support for any purpose or cause. This definition does not
include solicitation, peddling, vending or youth fundraising, as those terms
are defined in this section. This definition includes requesting contributions
w hen such requests are made in conjunction with the house-to-house
distribution of ideas, pamphlets, literature, or the collection of signatures
or support for any purpose or cause. This definition includes both "contact
canvassers" and "non-contact canvassers" as defined in paragraphs (A)(1) and
(A)(2) hereof.
      1.   "Contact canvassers" and " contact canvassing" mean those persons
who canvass, as defined in subsection (A) hereof through in person, fact -to-
face contact, verbal or otherwise, with individual residents.
      2.   “Non-contact canvassers" and " non-contact canvassing" mean those
persons who canvass, as defined in subsection (A) hereof, without attempting in
person, face-to-face contact with individual residents, such asthe distribution
of leaflets and/or pamphlets by leaving them at a place of residence.
   B.   " Charitable" means and includes the words patriotic, philanthropic,
social service, welfare, benevolent, educational, fraternal or any agency
created for the purpose of supporting health research or health measures,
either actual or purported. This definition does not include youth fundraising,
as that term is defined in this section.
    C.   "City Manager" means the City Manager or his or her designee.
   D.   "Contribution" means the gift, sale for less than market value or
purchase for more than market value of alms, food, clothing, money or property,
including donations under the guise of a loan of money or property or the
rental thereof for any charitable, religious or political use or purpose.
   E.   "Peddler" means an itinerant solicitant/trader who sells wares which he
or she may carry with him or her traveling about from place to place.
   F.   "Person" means any firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint stock association, church, religious sect, religious
denomination, society, organization or league, and includes any trustee,
receiver, assignee, agent or other similar representative thereof.
   G.   "Political" and "political organization" shall be given their commonly
accepted definitions, but shall not mean or include the term "charitable." It
is not necessary that a person be a candidate for an office or in support of
another person as a candidate to be included within the definition of "
political" or "political organization."
   H.   "Religious" and "religion" shall be given their commonly accepted
definitions, but shall not mean or include the term "charitable."
   I.   "Solicit" and " solicitation" mean the method by which a peddler or
vendor conveys his/her wares; or the request, either directly or indirectly,
for money, credit, property, financial assistance, or other thing of value on
the plea or representation that which is being solicited will be used for a
charitable, political, or religious purpose.
   J.   "Vendor" means a person who transfers property by door-to-door sale.
   K.   "Youth fundraiser" and " youth fundraising" means fundraising for (i) a
K-12 school or school-related activity, or (ii) a youth organization such as an
athletic club, Boy/Girl Scout troop, and the like, when such activity is
undertaken by a person, age 18 or under, who resides in this City. Youth
fundraising activity, as contemplated by this definition, typically includes,
but is not limited to, the sale of fundraising products such as popcorn,
wrapping paper, candy, fruit or plants.
733.02 AUTHORITY TO ISSUE LICENSE.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized to grant, issue and revoke a license
to any person who desires to vend, solicit, peddle or request contributions
under this chapter.
 
733.03 LICENSE OR REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   No person shall peddle, vend, solicit or request contributions for any
purpose, charitable or otherwise, unless such person has obtained a license
from the City or unless the person meets the exception contained in Section
733.08. Such person shall carry the license required by this section, a
photographic identification card, and the do-not-solicit list required by
Section
733.12, at all times while exercising such calling and shall, upon demand,
exhibit those items to any official of the City or occupant of any residence or
business establishment being contacted.
733.04 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   A.   An application for a license to peddle, vend, solicit or request
contributions shall be made on forms provided by the City.
   B.   The City Manager shall issue the license if all of the follow ing
conditions are met:
      1.   All of the statements made in the application are true;
      2.   The applicant has provided a valid photographic identification card;
      3.   The applicant has provided current address and/or telephone contact
information;
      4.   The applicant has paid the license application fee under Section
733.06 ; and
      5.   The applicant has not been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor
involving force, violence, fraud, theft, or a sexually -oriented offense.
733.05 LICENSE WAITING PERIOD; INVESTIGATION.
   A waiting period, not to exceed twenty-four hours after receipt of the
completed application for a license to peddle, vend, solicit or request
contributions, shall be required for the purpose of having the Police
Department make an independent inquiry of the requirements specified in Section
733.04.
733.06 LICENSE APPLICATION FEES.
   The City Manager, before issuing the license required by this chapter, shall
collect a license application fee from each applicant. Each separate person
wishing to peddle, vend, solicit or request contributions within the City shall
be considered a separate applicant and must have an individual license in order
to engage in those activities within the City. The amount of the fee shall be
one dollar ($1.00) for each license issued under this chapter, or such other
amount as the City Manager may establish from time to time, provided that the
fee may not exceed the costs, including but not limited to personnel costs,
reasonably incurred by the City in reviewing the application and performing the
independent inquiry referenced in Section
733.05.
733.07 LICENSE EXPIRATION; REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   Any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire not later than ten
days following the date of issuance. Such a license may be revoked or suspended
at any time by the City Manager if the holder:
    A.   Is found to have misrepresented any statement on the application for a
license to peddle, vend, solicit or request contributions;
   B.   Violates any of the provisions of this chapter;
   C.   Is the subject of a trespassing complaint as defined by state law or by
Section
541.05 or
541.051 of the Oakwood Codified Ordinances; or
   D.   Is found to be convicted of a felony or misdemeanor involving force,
violence, fraud, theft, or a sexually-oriented offense.
733.08 EXCEPTIONS FROM LICENSE AND FEES.
   Except as otherwise provided in Sections
733.11 and
733.12, the restrictions of this chapter do not apply to any canvassing
activity as defined in Section
733.01(A) or to youth fundraising activity as defined in Section
733.01(K). These exceptions are adopted, among other reasons and without
limitation, on the following grounds:
   A.   That canvassing activity, although it may involve requesting
contributions, is principally conducted as an expression of core political
speech, and presents a lower risk of fraud, theft or other criminal conduct
than that presented by other house-to-house activities.
   B.   That youth fundraising activity is engaged in by minors who reside in
this city who, by virtue of their residence, are likely to be recognized by
their neighbors and present a lower risk of fraud, theft, or other criminal
conduct than that presented by other house-to-house activities.
733.09 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   A representative of a charitable organization, as defined in Ohio R. C.
Chapter 1716, may be required, if requested by the City Manager or his or her
designee, to provide certification that such organization is duly registered
with the Ohio Attorney General's office.
733.10 FALSIFICATION; MISREPRESENTATION.
   No person required to obtain a license to solicit, peddle, vend or request
contributions under this chapter shall register a false or fictitious name or
address or represent by words or action that he or she is the employee, agent,
partner or representative of any person or organization, when in fact, he or
she is not the employee, agent, partner or representative of such person or
organization.
   
733.11 HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   A.   All peddling, vending, soliciting, and requests for contributions other
than in conjunction with canvassing or youth fundraising activity, permitted
under this chapter may be conducted only between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:
00 p.m.
 
   B.   All canvassing and youth fundraising activity permitted under this
chapter may be conducted only between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
733.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITING; NOTICE.
   A.   The City Manager shall maintain a do-not-solicit list. Any property
owner, or tenant if the property is leased, may elect to add or remove his or
her residence to or from the list, at any time, by:
      1.   Calling or visiting the City' s offices;
      2.   Directing an email request to the City through a link to be
maintained on the City' s website for that purpose;
      3.   Checking the appropriate box on the residence' s City utility bill
when such option is provided annually; or
      4.   Returning a request form to be included annually in the City
newsletter.
   B.   The do-not-solicit list shall be updated as follow s:
      1.   Every person who elects to add his or her residence to the do-not-
solicit list shall be required to re-register such residence every five (5)
years. Any residence that is not re-registered in accordance with this section
shall be removed from the do-not-solicit list;
      2.   On a periodic basis, the City Manager shall compare the do-not-
solicit list to the utility database to identify which residences on the do-
not-solicit listhave been transferred or sold since being registered. The City
Manager shall remove any such residence; and
      3.   The do-not-solicit request form will be provided to all new
residents in the New Resident Packets that the Police Department hand delivers.
The New Resident Packets are provided to new residents when the Utility
Department receives notice of a new account holder.
   C.   The City Manager shall provide a copy of the do-not-solicit list to
each person issued a license pursuant to Section
733.04. In addition, any person may obtain a copy of the do-not-solicit list
by:
      1.   Visiting City offices during normal business hours;
      2.   Visiting the Department of Public Safety at any time, twenty-four
hours per day, seven days per week; or
      3.   Accessing a copy from the City' s website.
   D.   No person shall enter onto the property of any residence listed on the
do-not- solicit list maintained in accordance with subsection (a) hereof for
the purpose of contact canvassing, peddling, vending, soliciting, or requesting
contributions.
   E.   No person shall knock at the door or ring the doorbell of any
residence, apartment, or other dwelling unit in the City upon which is clearly
displayed at the entrance a notice that reads " NO SOLICITORS" or that
otherwise clearly purports to prohibit peddlers, contact canvassers, vendors,
solicitors, or persons requesting contributions, unless such person is or has
been invited upon the premises by the occupant thereof.
733.13 APPEALS.
   The City Manager shall give notice of a refusal to issue a license required
by this chapter to the applicant. The applicant may appeal such refusal to
Council by filing a written notice of appeal with the Clerk of Council within
ten days after such refusal and at least seven days before the Council meeting
at which the appeal shall be heard. The appeal shall state briefly the grounds
for appeal. The applicant may appeal before Council in person or by attorney.
The decision of Council shall be final.
733.14 SEVERABILITY.
   In the event that any provision of this chapter is determined by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable or invalid, for any reason
whatsoever, such provision shall be deemed to be severable from the remaining
provisions of this chapter, which remaining provisions shall not be affected by
the court's determination and shall remain in full force and effect.
   
733.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree and shall be fined not
more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or imprisoned not more than
thirty days, or both, for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or
continues.
Legislative history: (Ord. 2642, passed 10/6/69; Ord. 2764, passed 12/6/71;
Ord. 3597, passed 11/17/86; Ord. 4099, passed 12/9/91; Ord. 4316, passed 11/27/
95. Cross Reference: Prohibition Against Delivery of Advertising to Private
Property, Section
541.10, passed 08/05/2013)
 
CHAPTER 741
Sidewalk, Curb and Gutter Contractors
741.01   Construction specifications.
741.02   Supervision.
741.03   License required for contractors; application; fee.
741.03.1   License for subcontractors required.
741.04   Surety.
741.05   Insurance.
741.06   Cancellation of license.
741.07   Barricades, lights.
741.99   Penalty.
 
 
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Barricades and warning lights required - see GEN. OFF.
 517.03; S. & P.S. Ch.
903.
     Permit and bond required for opening in sidewalks, curbs, gutters, streets
or public place
- see S. & P.S. Ch.
901.
 
 
 
741.01 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   Whenever any sidewalk, curb and gutter in the City is constructed, it shall
be done in accordance with the most recent sidewalk, curb and gutter
construction specifications on file in the administrative offices of the City.
741.02 SUPERVISION.
   All sidewalks, curbs and gutters constructed in the City shall be done under
the direction and to the satisfaction of the City Manager. Every reference in
this chapter to the City Manager shall include his authorized representative.
741.03 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR CONTRACTORS; APPLICATION; FEE.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to engage in the business of
constructing concrete sidewalks, curbs and gutters in the City shall make
application to the City Manager for a license to do so and pay the required
application fee as set by the City Manager under Chapter
153  of the Administrative Code. The application shall be on a form prescribed
by the City Manager. Upon receipt of such application and fee, the City Manager
shall determine whether or not the applicant is qualified to engage in such
business. In making that decision, the City Manager shall take into
consideration the experience of the applicant in such business and the
equipment possessed or to be secured by the applicant for such purpose. If the
City Manager determines that the applicant is so qualified, he shall cause the
license to be issued to the applicant upon filing of the surety required by
Section
741.04  and proof of insurance required by Section
741.05 .
 
741.03.1 LICENSE FOR SUBCONTRACTORS REQUIRED.
   All of the terms, conditions and requirements of Section
741.03  shall also apply to subcontractors engaged in the business of
constructing concrete sidewalks, curbs and gutters in this City. Such
subcontractors shall make application and be licensed under the terms of
Section
741.03  and shall post surety and proof of insurance under Sections
741.04 and
741.05.
 
741.04 SURETY.
   A.   The surety which must be filed before a license may be issued pursuant
to Section
741.03 shall be in the principal sum of $10,000.00. Its condition shall be that
such licensee in the building of concrete sidewalks, curbs and gutters in the
City, whether under contract with the City or with a property owner or with
another contractor, shall do the following things:
      1.   Comply strictly with all the laws and ordinances applicable thereto;
      2.   Shall pay all third party expenses which the City incurred to
inspect or correct the work;
      3.   Shall construct all such sidewalks, curbs and gutters according to
established grade and in accordance with specifications adopted by the City or
a duly authorized officer thereof;
      4.   Shall remove all debris after the completion of the work;
      5.   Shall pay all damages which may be incurred because of defective or
inferior workmanship or materials in such work, or repair or replace same
(provided such defective conditions become evident prior to the expiration of
the guarantee period expressed in such contract);
      6.   Shall indemnify, defend and save harmless the City and any property
owner with whom he contracts from all claims, charges, losses, costs, damages,
law suits and actions of every kind against either or both for or on account of
any injury or damage to person or property or both, because of, arising out of,
or incident to the construction of the work in any such contract; and
      7.   Shall pay any and all claims for labor, materials, machinery or
equipment furnished for the work specified in any such contract.
   If the licensee meets all these conditions the surety shall be void;
otherwise the amount of money it represents shall be paid to the City or the
property owner, as the case may be.
Nothing herein shall be construed as requiring that such surety be in the
express terms of this section, a substantial compliance herewith being
sufficient, but the form and substance of the surety shall be satisfactory to
the City Attorney.
 
   B.   The surety shall be in the form of a certified or cashier's check to be
cashed by the City at once, an irrevocable letter of credit on a federally
chartered bank having a main or branch office in the City or in Dayton or
Kettering, Ohio, or a bond issued by a surety company authorized to do business
in this state.
   C.   The surety shall be released by the City Manager when the work is
completed as required of this chapter.
741.05 INSURANCE.
   In addition to furnishing the bond required by the preceding sections, the
sidewalk, curb and gutter contractor or subcontractor shall furnish
satisfactory evidence, before a license is issued to him, that he has procured
public liability and property damage insurance which shall protect him, his
subcontractors and the City from all claims for damages for personal injuries,
including accidental death, in the sum of not less than $500,000.00 for any one
person injured, with an aggregate of not less than $1,000,000.00 for any one
accident, and which shall protect the parties from claims for property damage
for not less than the sum of $50,000.00, to the extent such claims arise from
the operation of the applicant as sidewalk, curb and gutter contractor or
subcontractor. Such insurance shall provide that it shall not be cancellable
except with twenty (20) days written notice first given to the City Manager.
The City Manager may require that the insurance name the city or an additional
insured. The deductible amount may not exceed a reasonable amount determined by
the City Manager, since no insurance protection would be available for that
deductible portion.
741.06 CANCELLATION OF LICENSE.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized to cancel the license of any sidewalk,
curb and gutter contractor or subcontractor who violates any provision of this
chapter or who fails to perform any condition secured by the surety required
under
741.04.
741.07 BARRICADES, LIGHTS.
   Every person, firm or corporation constructing or repairing any sidewalks,
curbs and gutters in this City shall see to, and be responsible for, the
safeguarding of all excavations and obstructions which are necessary or
incident to such work by placing and maintaining barricades about such
excavations or obstructions and, in addition thereto, lights or other warning
devices at night consistent with requirements of the Ohio Manual of Uniform
Traffic Control Devices as to construction in streets.
741.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor for the first offense and shall be
guilty of a fourth degree misdemeanor for each subsequent offense.
Legislative history:   (Ord. 2352, passed 1/18/65.)(Ord. 2733, passed 5/3/71.)
 
CHAPTER 747
Drive-In Restaurants
747.01   Definition.
747.02   License required, application and fee.
747.03   Issuance of license; renewal.
747.04   Neighborhood disturbances.
747.05   Removal of debris.
747.06   Alcoholic beverages.
747.07   No cruising.
747.08   Hours of service.
747.09   Pavement regulations.
747.10   Fence or wall required.
747.11   Entrances and exits.
747.12   Unnecessary noise.
747.13   Toilet facilities.
747.14   Separability.
747.99   Penalty.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Drive-in establishment defined - see P. & Z. 1101.23.
Locations restricted - see P. & Z. 1107.07.
Special use restrictions - see P. & Z. 1133.03 j.
 
 
747.01 DEFINITION.
   A.   "Drive-in restaurant" means an establishment which accommodates
patrons' automobiles in any one or both of the following ways:
      1.   The patrons may purchase food or beverages without leaving their
automobiles.
      2.   The patrons may depart from their automobiles and purchase, for
consumption elsewhere, food or beverages prepared on the premises, but this
shall not include bakeries, delicatessens, ice cream stores, grocery stores or
catering establishments.
      3.   The patrons may purchase any type of food or beverage which is then
consumed on the premises but in the open air or in the automobiles, rather than
inside the building itself.
   B.   An establishment shall be regarded as a drive-in restaurant if part of
its activity falls within one of these definitions, even though a portion of
its business constitutes a non-drive-in restaurant operation.
747.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION AND FEE.
   No person, firm or corporation shall operate a drive-in restaurant without
first having obtained a license therefor. Application for such a license shall
be made with the Commissioner of Buildings on such forms as he may prescribe.
Such licenses shall be nontransferable, nonassignable and shall terminate upon
sale or other transfer of the property and/or of the business entity holding
such license. Licenses must be renewed annually. An annual license fee shall be
required and shall be prorated depending upon the complete months remaining in
the balance of such calendar year. Licenses may not be transferred from one
location to another.
 
747.03 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; RENEWAL.
   All applications for such licenses shall be accompanied by the required
license fee. After the receipt of such applications and fee, the Code Official
shall cause an investigation to be made to ascertain whether the establishment
in question complies with the requirements of the ordinances of this City. No
license shall be issued unless the Code Official finds through his
investigation that the applicant, its officers and employees are of good moral
character and are capable of operating the proposed drive-in restaurant in a
manner consistent with the public health, safety and good morals. All drive-in
restaurant licenses shall expire on December 31st of the year of issuance. All
applications for renewal of such licenses shall be filed with the Code Official
not later than December 1st.
747.04 NEIGHBORHOOD DISTURBANCE.
   No owner, manager or person in charge of any drive-in restaurant shall
cause, create, allow or maintain any nuisance on its premises whereby the
peace, good order or sanitation of the neighborhood is disturbed, or persons
owning or occupying property in the neighborhood are disturbed or annoyed. It
shall be the duty of the licensee to maintain quiet and good order and sanitary
conditions on the premises of a drive-in restaurant. The licensee shall not
permit disorderly or immoral conduct, loitering, littering or any actions which
interfere with the sanitation of the neighborhood. The licensee shall not cause
or allow any noise or other nuisance on the premises of a drive-in restaurant
whereby thequiet or good order of the premises or neighborhood is disturbed.
The Code Official shall have authority to revoke or suspend a license or to
refuse to renew a license if he finds the licensee is operating in violation of
this chapter or any other governing law, ordinance or regulation. Prior to such
action, however, a hearing shall be held by the Code Official at which time the
licensee shall have an opportunity to show cause why the license should not be
revoked or suspended, or why the license should be renewed.
747.05 DEBRIS REMOVAL; CONTAINERS TO BE PROVIDED.
   It shall be the duty of the licensee of a drive-in restaurant or any person
in charge of such restaurant to keep the premises in its entirety, together
with the portion of any public street or streets adjoining such drive-in
restaurant, free from all rubbish, waste products and debris, including
napkins, straws, paper cups, plates, sacks or other waste material of all types
produced by, from or as a result of the operation of such drive-in restaurant.
Each drive-in establishment of this type shall provide a sufficient number of
suitable containers to hold such waste material until it is removed from the
premises. Such containers shall be equipped with self-closing, reach-in type
covers. In the event the City picks up or removes debris found on any portion
of the public street(s) adjoining such drive-in establishment, which debris was
produced through or by the operation of such drive-in establishment, the cost
of such action to the City, including administrative costs as well as direct
dollar payments, shall be charged to such drive-in establishment. Unless such a
charge is paid within thirty days after written notice to such establishment,
the license of such drive-in establishment shall be revoked.
 
747.06 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   No patron or any other person on the premises of such a drive-in
establishment, whether in or outside of an automobile, shall drink any
alcoholic beverage or have in his possession any open bottle, can or other
receptacle containing an alcoholic beverage. It shall be the duty of the owner,
manager or person in charge of a premises to post a notice of this regulation
in a conspicuous place at the entrance of such premises in a manner and form
which meets all other requirements of the City. This prohibition concerning
alcoholic beverages shall not apply, however, to any person when served inside
a building or drive-in establishment duly licensed to serve alcoholic
beverages.
747.07 NO CRUISING.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle onto or out of the drive-in premises
without parking, unless no parking space is available at that time.
747.08 HOURS OF SERVICE.
   Such a drive-in establishment shall not serve or sell any food or beverage
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
747.09 PAVEMENT REGULATIONS.
   The parking, driveway and walkway area of the premises of any such drive-in
establishment shall be paved to the satisfaction of the City Engineer to avoid
creating dust and to provide for adequate drainage of surface water.
747.10 FENCE OR WALL REQUIRED.
   The licensee of such a drive-in establishment shall provide a wall or fence
of adequate height to screen the patrons and motor vehicles on the premises
from the view of the surrounding property. Such fence or wall shall be of a
design and material approved by the Code Official. The perimeter of such fence
or wall shall be landscaped, on the exterior thereof as well as the interior
side, by the licensee with suitable plants and shrubbery to preserve, to the
extent reasonably possible, harmony with the appearance of the surrounding
property. To this end, such fence or wall shall be erected far enough back from
the lot lines to permit that landscaping on both sides.
747.11 ENTRANCES AND EXITS.
   The parking and driveway areas shall have one entrance from and a separate
exit to the adjoining street. In order to prevent traffic congestion caused by
a backup of vehicles attempting to enter the premises, any entrance drive shall
be located not less than 200 feet from the nearest intersection formed by the
right-of-way lines of the nearest intersecting streets. In order to provide a
safe and convenient means of exit for vehicles leaving the premises, the exit
drive shall be located not less than 200 feet from the nearest intersection as
defined above. These location requirements shall not apply to existing drives
of drive-in establishments of this nature which were in operation on December
16, 1968, the date this legislation was adopted. This requirement shall not
apply to existing exit drives of drive-in establishments of this nature.
747.12 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   No person or persons on the premises of such a drive-in restaurant shall
race the motor of any motor vehicle, needlessly bring any motor vehicle to a
sudden stop or start, blow any horn or make, cause to be made or permit to be
made any loud or raucous noise, nuisance or disturbance whereby the quiet or
good order of the premises or the neighborhood is disturbed.
747.13 TOILET FACILITIES.
   Every drive-in restaurant shall be provided with conveniently situated
toilet facilities for patrons and employees which comply with the laws and
regulations of the State of Ohio and applicable plumbing codes as well as with
the requirements of this chapter. Lavatory facilities, including handwashing
basin, running water, soap, etc. shall be provided within or adjacent to each
toilet. All establishments seating ten or more people shall provide separate
rooms with toilet facilities for each sex. For the purpose of this section, in
establishments where food is served to patrons who may then consume such food
while seated in their motor vehicles, each vehicle parking space provided shall
be counted as seating three people; and the seating capacity of such drive-in
establishment shall be the total of the inside seats, if any, and the outside
seats computed as provided herein.
747.14 SEPARABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
chapter is for any reason held invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
such portion shall be deemed as a separate, distinct and independent provision
and that decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of
this chapter.
747.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
fourth degree misdemeanor.
Legislative history: (Ord. 2594, passed 12/16/68.)
CHAPTER 751
Alarm Systems
751.01   Definitions.
751.02   Duties of subscriber and of vendor.
751.03   Standards required for both existing and future alarm systems.
751.04   Standards required only for future alarm systems.
751.05   Excessive alarms.
751.06   No liability on the part of the City.
751.99   Penalty.
 
 
751.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter certain words and phrases shall be defined
as herein set forth:
   A.   "Alarm system" means any mechanical or electrical device that is
arranged, designed or used to signal the occurrence in this City of a burglary,
robbery, other criminal offense, fire emergency, or medical emergency requiring
urgent attention, and to which police, fire or emergency medical personnel are
expected to respond. Alarm systems include those through which Public Safety
personnel are notified directly of such signals through automatic recording
devices or are notified indirectly by way of third persons who monitor the
alarm systems and who report such signals to the Safety Department. Alarm
systems also include those designed to register a signal which is so audible,
visible or in other ways perceptible outside a protected building, structure or
facility as to notify persons in the neighborhood beyond the zoning lot where
the signal is located. Alarm systems do not include those affixed to
automobiles. Further, alarm systems do not include auxiliary devices installed
by telephone companies to protect telephone equipment or systems which might be
damaged or disrupted by the use of an alarm system.
   B.   "False alarm" is any signal created by an alarm system (including but
not limited to alarm signals initiated by human error) which signal directly or
indirectly notifies Safety Department personnel of the occurrence of a
burglary, robbery, other criminal offense, fire emergency or medical emergency
when no such emergency exists and when police, fire or emergency medical
personnel are not needed to respond to a burglary, robbery, other criminal
offense, fire emergency or medical emergency.
   C.   "Subscriber" is any person, firm, corporation, partnership or entity
who or which purchases, leases, contracts for, or obtains an alarm system.
   D.   "Vendor" is any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or entity
associated with an alarm business or company, either indirectly or directly,
whose duties include but are not limited to any of the following: selling,
replacing, moving, repairing, maintaining or installing an alarm system on or
in any structure, building or facility.
 
751.02 DUTIES OF SUBSCRIBER AND VENDOR.
   A.   Duties of subscriber. It shall be the responsibility of each subscriber
to see that the standards of installation and maintenance set forth in this
chapter are adhered to.
   B.   Duties of vendor. It shall be the responsibility of any vendor causing
installation of or maintaining an alarm system to cause such installation or
maintenance to conform to the requirements of the Fire Code and the Electric
Code applicable to this City.
   C.   Duty of both subscriber and of vendor. Each alarm system shall be
utilized only for the purposes of summoning the Safety Department for emergency
and/or life hazard situations. Without the prior express consent of the Safety
Department, systems shall not be tested so as to transmit a signal to the
Safety Department when an emergency or life hazard situation does not exist. It
shall be the responsibility of each subscriber and also each vendor not to make
or permit
such tests.
   
751.03 STANDARDS REQUIRED FOR BOTH EXISTING AND FUTURE ALARM SYSTEMS.
   A.   Notification. Each subscriber must provide to the City on a form
provided by the Safety Department the name, address and telephone number of the
subscriber and of the vendor, if any, with whom the subscriber has contracted
for maintenance of the alarm system. Each subscriber shall also provide the
City with the names, addresses and home and business numbers of those persons
(not less than one) who can be contacted twenty four hours a day and seven days
a week to turn off or deactivate an alarm system. It shall be the obligation of
the subscriber to keep this information current and correct through
supplementary notifications filed from time to time on the same form.
   B.   Designated telephone lines. No person shall use or cause to be used an
alarm system or device of any kind that automatically dials or calls any
telephone line of the offices of the City of Oakwood or any department or
division thereof except such telephone line or lines as may be designated by
the Safety Department for the specific purpose of receiving signals from alarm
systems.
   C.   Automatic dialing or calling devices. Alarm systems that automatically
dial or call a telephone line designated by the Safety Department shall comply
with the following requirements:
      1.   Total length of the recorded message being transmitted to the Safety
Department (including repetition of message) shall not exceed thirty seconds
duration.
      2.   The recorded message transmitted shall be repeated not less than two
nor more than three times.
      3.   The recorded message being transmitted shall incorporate language
specifically identifying the message as a "recording" with the balance of the
message identifying the street number and street name the location of the
emergency and the nature of the event which caused the alarm system to
activate. If the location of the event signaled by the alarm system is in a
multi-unit building, the message shall also identify by number and by floor the
particular dwelling unit, office unit or commercial unit in which the event
occurred.
      4.   The recorded message being transmitted to the department shall be
appropriate for the purpose for which the alarm system was installed and the
message in its entirety shall be intelligible and spoken in the English
language.
      5.   The City of Oakwood's cost of providing telephone lines designated
for alarm systems that use automatic dialing or calling devices, including any
reoccurring fees charged, shall be paid in advance each year to this City by
the subscribers. Payment shall be based upon dividing the cost of the telephone
service by the number of alarm systems then utilizing such designated phone
lines with the quotient thus obtained to be billed annually in advance to each
subscriber and to be paid within thirty days of receipt. If not so paid, the
system must be disconnected immediately in the manner described in
751.05  C.
   D.   Application of standards to existing and future alarm systems:
      1.   Every new system installed after the passage of this chapter shall
comply with the above standards.
      2.   Every alarm system existing before enactment of this chapter shall
be placed in compliance with the above standards no later than three months
after such passage date. The Safety Department may elect not to respond to any
alarm system that is not in compliance within that time period or may elect to
charge each subscriber not in compliance for each such response at a rate of
$50.00 per false alarm, or to charge the City's direct and indirect costs for
the time, labor, equipment and other services used in responding to such alarm,
whichever is greater.
751.04 STANDARDS REQUIRED ONLY FOR FUTURE ALARM SYSTEMS.
   Systems installed after enactment of this Chapter
751  on October 5, 1981, shall comply with the following standards as to
installation and maintenance in addition to the standards set forth in Section
751.03:
   A.   Alarm systems must incorporate a device that allows an adequate delay
before the time at which activation of the system would directly or indirectly
signal the Safety Department or signal other parties who in turn might be
expected to notify the Safety Department. This delay is to permit the
subscriber to stop a false alarm from being transmitted.
    B.   The alarm system shall incorporate a device that limits any exterior
signal to a period of time not to exceed fifteen minutes in duration. At the
expiration of the maximum time permitted, the alarm system shall automatically
cease to remit a signal.
751.05 EXCESSIVE FALSE ALARMS.
   A.   If any alarm system produces three false alarms in any twelve
consecutive months, written notice of that fact shall be given by certified
mail or delivery to the subscriber or other appropriate party listed in the
notification required in Section
751.03  A. Thereafter, the Safety Director shall have the power to require the
subscriber to comply with any one or more of the requirements set forth below
as would minimize, in his judgment, the occurrence of such false alarms in the
future:
      1.   The subscriber may be charged for the direct and indirect costs to
the City of time, labor, equipment and other services rendered in responding to
each subsequent alarm or may be charged $50.00 per false alarm, whichever is
higher. Such charges shall continue for each excessive false alarm until six
consecutive months have elapsed during which no false alarms have been
registered, and must be paid within fifteen days after notice thereof is given
in the same manner as provided by this section for notice of excessive false
alarms.
      2.   The subscriber may be required to cause the alarm system to comply
immediately with the applicable standards referred to in Section
751.04  (those standards otherwise being imposed only on alarm systems
installed after enactment of this chapter).
      3.   The subscriber may be required to disconnect the alarm system
immediately in such fashion that signals are not emitted so as to notify Safety
Department personnel directly or indirectly through automatic telephone
recording devices or to register a signal which is so audible, visible or in
other ways perceptible outside a protected building, structure or facility as
to notify persons in the neighborhood who may in turn notify Safety Department
personnel of the signal.
      4.   If the subscriber fails to pay when due any $50.00 false alarm
charge levied under sub-section (1) above, the subscriber may be required to
disconnect the alarm system from public safety department notification, to the
same extent as a disconnect order may be given under sub-section (3)
immediately above for excessive false alarms.
   B.   Notice of the determination of the Safety Director shall be given in
the same manner as provided by this section for notice of excessive false
alarms.
 
751.06 NO LIABILITY ON THE PART OF THE CITY.
   Nothing in this chapter nor the existence of any other fact(s) shall be
construed to require a response by the Safety Department to an address or
location registering an alarm. The City shall neither assume nor bear any
liability for its failure to respond to such an alarm signal.
751.99 PENALTY.
   A.   Any person found in violation of
751.02 shall be deemed to have committed a fourth degree misdemeanor.
   B.   Any person who fails to adhere to the standards and otherwise comply
with Section
751.03 or
751.04 shall be deemed to have committed a minor misdemeanor.
   C.   Any person who fails to comply with the specific direction of the
Safety Director as provided for under
751.03  or
751.05 s hall be deemed to have committed a third degree misdemeanor.
Legislative history: (Ord. 3228, passed 10/5/81; Ord. 4103, passed 12/23/91)
CHAPTER 759
Business Regulation Appeals Board
 
759.01   License applicants may appeal.
759.02   Creation of appeals board.
759.03   Right of appeal to court.
 
 
759.01 LICENSE APPLICANTS MAY APPEAL.
   An applicant who or which is denied any permit, license, approval or
permission under any of the sections of the Business Regulation Code may, in
the absence of a specifically established appeal board, appeal such adverse
decision to the Business Regulation Appeals Board, upon payment of the required
fee. The applicant shall have the burden of proving by clear and convincing
evidence that the decision appealed from was incorrect.
759.02 CREATION OF APPEALS BOARD.
   There is hereby created a Business Regulation Appeals Board to conduct
hearings and make determinations as provided in this chapter. The members of
the Sewer and Water Appeals Board appointed under Chapter
167  of the Administrative Code shall also constitute the Appeals Board.
759.03 RIGHT OF APPEAL TO COURT.
   Decision of the board shall be final administrative decisions and shall be
subject to judicial review upon appeal to the court system by either the
applicant or the City or both.
Legislative history: (Ord. 2795, passed 11/20/72.)
CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF OAKWOOD
PART NINE - STREETS AND PUBLIC SERVICES CODE
TITLE ONE - Streets and Sidewalks
      Chapter
901 . Street Openings.
      Chapter
903 . Barriers and Warning Lights.
      Chapter
905 . Private Streets.
      Chapter
907 . Visibility Hazards.
TITLE THREE - Public Utilities
      Chapter
913 . Stormwater Management Utility.
      Chapter
915 . Sanitary Sewer Utility.
      Chapter  917 . Storm Sewers.
      Chapter
919 . Water Utility.
TITLE FIVE - Other Public Services
      Chapter
931 . Refuse Program.
      Chapter
933 . Inspections.
      Chapter
935 . Parks.
TITLE NINE - Rights of Way Administration
      Chapter
951 . Rights-of-Way Administration.
      Chapter
955 . Small Cell Facilities and Wireless Support Structures
      Chapter
965 . Revocable Street Privileges for Non Utility System Providers.
            
CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF OAKWOOD
PART NINE - STREETS AND PUBLIC SERVICES CODE
TITLE ONE - Streets and Sidewalks.
      Chapter
901 . Street Openings.
      Chapter
903 . Barriers and Warning Lights.
      Chapter
905 . Private Streets.
      Chapter
907 . Visibility Hazards.
CHAPTER 901
Street Openings
901.01    Permit required.
901.02    Exceptions.
901.03    Application for permit.
901.04    Conditions of permit, indemnification, insurance.
901.05    Revocation of permit.
901.06    Emergency repairs.
901.07   Permit fees.
901.08   Certain driveway construction prohibited.
901.09   Cash or surety bond or letter of credit.
901.99   Penalty.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Power to establish and care for streets - see ORC 715.19, 717.01, 723.01
Openings by the City - see ORC 723.02
Surface treatment - see ORC 723.23, 723.31
Excavation liability - see ORC 723.49 et. seq.
Digging, excavating and piling earth on streets - see ORC 5589.10
Street obstructions - see TRAF.
311.01
Sidewalk, curb and gutter contractors - see BUS. REG. Ch.
741
Barricades and warning lights - see GEN. OFF.
517.03; also required by BUS. REG.
741.07
Openings for sanitary sewer connections - see S. & P.S. Ch.
913
Openings for storm sewer connections - see S. & P.S. Ch. 917
Duty of abutting owner/occupant to keep sidewalks, etc. repaired and free from
nuisance - see GEN OFF
521.06
 
 
901.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A.   No person, whether an abutting owner, lessee, contractor or otherwise,
shall do or permit to be done by his agents, servants or employees any of the
following acts without a permit first having obtained from the City Manager to
do so:
      1.   Make any excavations or dig in any street, sidewalk space, alley,
lane or other public way or place.
      2.   Remove, break or make holes in any pavement of the streets,
sidewalks, sidewalk spaces or other public ways or places, or cut any curb.
       3.   Construct, build, erect or place any article or structure in or
upon, over or under a street, sidewalk, alley, lane, sidewalk space, public way
or place. Any article or structure so placed, erected, built or constructed
without such a permit may be removed by the City with the expense of such
removal to be an obligation of the person or entity responsible for the article
or structure being there and with such removal to be a remedy of the City in
addition to the penalty provided in Section
901.99.
      4.   Make any improvement or change in the surface of any street, alley,
lane, sidewalk or sidewalk space, or any other public way or place by grading,
graveling, paving or laying sidewalks or curbing, or place or paint any sign or
advertising matter on the surface of any such place.
      5.   Construct, build or maintain any driveway over or through any
gutter, curb or sidewalk. The permit for this work in the street right-of-way
area to be separate from any permit necessary under the Building Code for any
driveway located upon private property.
      6.   Conduct the business of selling retail goods on any street right-of-
way in a business zoning district, to the extent such outdoor sales constitute
a permitted use under Section 1133.02 of the zoning code of this city. The
specific portions of the street right-of-way on which such sales will be
conducted must be approved by the city as part of any permit issuance.
   B.   For the purpose of this chapter the word "street" includes the entire
width of the right-of-way area held by the City, through an easement or fee
simple title, for every alley, roadway, street and highway within the City.
901.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of Section
901.01 shall not require a permit for planting of shade trees or for grading or
sodding of the lawn space located between a property line or sidewalk line and
the curb, or for the improvement of streets, sidewalks or other public places
under or by virtue of a contract with the City.
901.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT, BY WHOM.
   Any person desiring to exercise any privilege for which a permit is required
by this chapter shall submit to the City Manager an application, in such form
as the Manager prescribes, setting forth the privilege desired. Such
application shall be accompanied by the required fee, a plat or drawing showing
the location in the street or other public place where the privilege is desired
with reference to street and lot lines, and the dimensions of the portion of
the public place or way to be used. An application for a permit shall be made
by the owner or lessee of the abutting property concerned, if the owner or
lessee himself is to perform the work requiring a permit. No person intending
to perform any work on behalf of an owner or lessee of property, or under
contract or agreement with an owner or lessee to do so, shall perform any such
work unless that person has submitted an application for any required permit
and until the permit has been issued solely in the name of such person as the
permit holder. Accordingly, if an owner or lessee of property intends to use a
third person contract to perform work requiring a permit, that permit must be
issued to the third person contractor and not to the owner or lessee. The full
names and addresses of the owner, any lessee, and any applicant if other than
the owner or lessee, and of the responsible officers of owner and lessee, if a
corporate body or unincorporated association is the applicant, shall be stated
in the application. All applicants for permits shall be duly qualified under
applicable law.
901.04 CONDITIONS OF PERMIT, INDEMNIFICATION, INSURANCE.
   Any person granted such a permit shall be subject to the following
obligations to the City in the exercise of the privilege hereby granted:
   A.   To make any excavation in such manner as to inconvenience the public as
little as possible.
   B.   To immediately replace the surface of any street, sidewalk or other
public way that has been disturbed or broken in a good and workmanlike manner
and to restore such street, sidewalk or other public way to its former
condition with any excavated area being resurfaced with like material as
existed prior to the excavation. All costs of any such replacement, restoration
or resurfacing shall be borne by the person receiving the permit.
   C.   To guard, provide warning signals and barriers and to otherwise do any
and all things necessary to prevent injury to persons and property by reason of
any excavation or other activity undertaken pursuant to such permit. (See BUS.
REG.
741.07 and GEN. OFF.
517.03  as to barricades.)
   D.   To indemnify and hold harmless the City from and against any claim,
demand, lawsuit or judgment made by any person whomsoever, arising out of any
exercise of privilege granted by such permit and based upon either property
damage, personal injury, or both, and to reimburse the City for any expense
incurred by it by reason of any such claim, demand, lawsuit or judgment, and to
assume responsibility for and defend any lawsuit which may arise therefrom. Any
person accepting any such permit shall be bound by the terms of this paragraph
without further contract or agreement.
   E.   To procure and furnish satisfactory evidence that the applicant has
procured and maintains in full force and effect a policy of liability
insurance, with limits of not less than $1,000,000.00 for personal injury and/
or death to any one person and $2,000,000.00 for such injury and/or death to
more than one person but occurring from any one accident, and not less than
$75,000.00 for property damage from such accident, protecting the permittee,
any property owner with whom the permittee may contract and the City, as
insured parties, against any claim, demand, lawsuit or judgment arising out of
the exercise of any permit granted hereunder. The deductible amount must be
satisfactorily small in the judgment of the City Manager, and the policy may
not be canceled without ten days' written notice to the permittee and the City.
If the permit holder proves to the satisfaction of the City his inability to
obtain such insurance, the City shall have the option (but shall not be
required) to obtain such insurance for the work involved, charging its
additional insurance cost to the permit holder.
901.05 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit granted by the City Manager pursuant to this chapter may be
revoked by him and terminated at any time when, in his opinion, the terms of
this chapter are being violated, or when the continued exercise of the
privilege constitutes a menace to the public safety or is an unreasonable use
of the public streets or places.
 
901.06 EMERGENCY REPAIRS.
   In cases of emergency involving immediate danger to persons or property and
requiring immediate action to make repairs to gas, water or other lines or
pipes, where time does not permit the making of an application and the securing
of a permit from the City Manager as required, the person required to perform
such repairs may proceed to do so without obtaining a permit required by this
chapter after having first notified the City Manager or the duty officer of the
Safety Department of such fact. However, in such case, that person shall make
application and secure a permit for such undertaking at the earliest possible
time and shall pay an additional administrative fee set by the City Manager
toward the direct and indirect expenses of the City caused by such last minute
notice of excavations in the public streets and places, and shall in all other
respects comply with the provisions of this chapter.
901.07 PERMIT FEES.
   A permit fee shall be charged by the City Manager for the issuance of any
permit hereunder as follows:
   A.   For the excavation of any portion of any street that has been
resurfaced within four years, an amount based upon the current cost of
resurfacing the area involved with like material.
      1.   Multiplied by five in the case of any street resurfaced within one
year, or
      2.   Multiplied by four in the case of any street resurfaced more than
one (1)    year but less than two years previously, or
      3.   Multiplied by three in the case of any street resurfaced more than
two years but less than three years previously, or
      4.   Multiplied by two in the case of any street resurfaced more than
three years but less than four years previously.
   B.   If a Portland Cement concrete street is excavated as to an entire area
bordered by expansion joints, however the provisions of subsection A hereof
shall not apply.
   C.   Other permit fees shall be set by the City Manager under Chapter
153  of the Administrative Code.
   D.   Any licensed and bonded contractor doing work in the City who expects
to apply for more than ten permits in a calendar year may, at the start of each
year, take out a blanket permit. Such blanket permit would cover any excavation
and cutting by such contractor in any street right-of-way area in the City for
that calendar year. However, any such contractor taking out such a blanket
permit must give written notice to the Public Service or Engineering Department
of the City of any work to be done under such blanket permit at least 48 hours
in advance of the commencement of such work. Any work performed without such
written notice having been given shall be deemed to have been performed without
any permit whatsoever, and will subject such contractor to all of the penalties
applicable to persons who perform such work without permits. Where any one
application, permit or inspection involves trench length of 100 feet or over,
an additional fee shall be charged, as set in the fee schedule established
under Chapter
153 . The 100 feet shall be measured from the beginning of the project to the
end of the project, and if there are several smaller trenches the sum total of
which equals at least 100 feet, the same additional fee shall apply. Additional
fees shall be charged under the fee schedule whenever costs are incurred by the
City through reinspections.
901.08 CERTAIN DRIVEWAY CONSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   No permit shall be issued hereunder for any of the following purposes
because such construction shall be prohibited:
   A.   For any portion of a driveway to be constructed in a street area for a
business use that exceeds 36 feet in width at the curb or 30 feet in width at
the property line. The City Manager shall be authorized, however, upon
application by the property owner and upon adequate proof of special hardship
or other good cause shown, waive this prohibition and to grant permits for
driveways which exceed by not more than 20% the limitations of this paragraph
and of paragraphs C and D of this section.
   B.   For any portion of a driveway to be constructed in a street area for a
residential purpose exceeding 12 feet in width at the curb or at the property
line, except as additional width is necessary to provide an adequate turning
radius or unless authorized as a special use under the Zoning Code.
   C.   For any portion of a driveway to be constructed in a street area within
25 feet of any other existing driveway serving the same premises for a business
use, or within a distance equal to the width of any other such existing
driveway, whichever is greater.
   D.   For the construction of any portion of a driveway in a street area
within 25 feet of any street intersection. See paragraph A above for possible
waiver by the City Manager.
   E.   For any purpose which in the opinion of the City Manager will
constitute a menace to safety or an unreasonable interference with the public
use of any street, sidewalk or other public place (for requirements as to
permits for driveways to be constructed on private property, see
 339.01  and
1339.02  of the Codified Ordinances of this City.
901.09 CASH OR SURETY BOND OR LETTER OF CREDIT.
   Before any street permit shall be issued for any street excavation
hereunder, the applicant shall comply with the following conditions.
   A.   Deposit with the City Manager a payment and performance bond, signed by
a surety company authorized to transact business in the State of Ohio, to
secure the faithful performance of the obligations contained in this Chapter.
In lieu of such a surety company bond, the applicant may deposit with the City
Manager cash, a cash bond or letter of credit as a substitute for the required
surety bond. In all cases, the sufficiency of the bond or its substitute shall
be at the sole determination of the City Manager and in a form acceptable to
the City Attorney.
   B.   The amount of the bond or its substitute shall be equal to, as
determined by the City Manager, the current cost of the work to be performed
and as authorized by the permit. In all cases, the amount of the bond or its
substitute shall not be less than $1,000.00.
   C.   The bond or its substitute shall secure and hold harmless the City and
any property owner(s) with whom the applicant may contract against any and all
costs arising from all work performed by the applicant or authorized by the
permit. The bond or its substitute shall also be conditioned that the applicant
will conduct and perform all work in a good and workmanlike manner; fill up,
restore and place the excavated area in the condition required by the permit
authorizing the work; and, to the satisfaction of the City Manager, maintain
the excavated area and any new or restored surface in a good condition,
excluding usual wear and tear, for a period of twelve months after the work has
been completed.
   D.   In the case of a failure by the applicant to faithfully perform and
comply with the conditions of this Chapter, the surety shall become liable or
the surety bond substitute shall be forieited by the applicant.
901.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor for the first offense and of a fourth degree misdemeanor for every
subsequent offense. If any work or excavation in violation of this chapter is
continued in existence for five days, it shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2376, passed 6/7/65.)
Legislative History:
Ord. 2376, passed 6/7/65; Ord. 2438, passed 7/18/66; Ord. 2609, passed 2/3/69;
Ord. 2732, passed 5/3/71; Ord. 3017, passed 12/19/77; Ord. 3378, passed 10/3/
83; Ord. 3401, passed 3/5/84; Ord. 3441, passed 8/6/84; Ord. 3442, passed 8/6/
84; Ord. 3458, passed 10/15/84; Ord. 3533, passed 2/3/86; Ord. 3936, passed 3/
19/90; Ord. 4141, passed 6/15/92.
 
CHAPTER 903
Barriers and Warning Lights
 
903.01 Excavation sites; responsibility of contractors, etc.
903.99 Penalty.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Barricades and warning lights - see GEN. OFF.
517.03; BUS. REG.
741.07
Barriers and lights as conditions for permit - see S. & P.S.
901.04
 
 
903.01 EXCAVATION SITES; RESPONSIBILITY OF CONTRACTORS, ETC.
   A.   No person making any improvement upon or near any sidewalk, street,
alley or other public place, whether under a contract with the City or with any
other person or entity which involves an excavation, accumulation of material,
or other condition which is hazardous to pedestrians or to vehicular traffic
shall fail to place around the hazardous area a substantial rail or guard to
prevent accidents, and to place and maintain there in a conspicuous manner one
or more red or amber lights, sufficient in number and size to be visible to all
pedestrians and vehicular traffic approaching the area. Such light or lights
shall be maintained and illuminated at all times between sunset and sunrise.
   B.   The provisions of this section shall apply not only to any person
making or causing such an excavation, accumulation of material, or the
hazardous conditions but also to any subcontractor, construction foreman,
superintendent or employee of any person in charge of or assigned the duty of
making or superintending the improvement which involves that condition.
903.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor for the first offense and of a fourth degree misdemeanor for every
subsequent offense. If any work or excavation in violation of this chapter is
continued in existence for five days, it shall constitute a separate offense.
Legislative history:
Ord. 2394, passed 11/15/65
 
CHAPTER 905
Private Streets
905.01 Surface of Private streets.
 
 
905.01 SURFACE OF PRIVATE STREETS.
   To provide for use by refuse disposal vehicles and/or fire and other
emergency vehicles, private streets must be surfaced in the same manner as
private driveways, i.e., they must be surfaced and maintained with concrete,
asphalt or with solid bricks or pavers that are bonded together or set so as to
be touching one another. The surface of such private streets must be capable of
supporting a minimum uniformly distributed live load of 1,000 pounds per square
foot.
Legislative history:
Ord. 4335, passed 6/17/96
CHAPTER 907
Visibility Hazards
907.01   Declarations of findings and purpose
907.02   Definitions
907.03   Sight Triangle to be Maintained Clear of Obstructions
 
 
907.01 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   A.   The City of Oakwood, Ohio (the "City") is vitally concerned with the
health, safety, and welfare of its residents and of all who use public rights-
of-way in the City, whether by motor vehicle, other mode of vehicular transit,
or as a pedestrian.
   B.   The City is likewise concerned with the protection of private property
rights for its residents, while acknowledging that such rights do not permit
private property owners to create or maintain a nuisance condition that poses a
safety hazard along or adjacent to a public right-of-way.
   C.   The City has a compelling governmental interest in ensuring that
sightlines along public rights-of-way are maintained free from obstruction, so
as to promote the safe and orderly flow of vehicular and pedestrian traffic; to
reduce the likelihood of accidents and injuries; and to otherwise promote the
public health, safety, and welfare.
   D.   The City has authority under the Laws and Constitution of the State of
Ohio, including but not limited to Article 18, Sections 3, 4, and 7, to
regulate public and private entities which use or impact the use of public
rights-of-way within the City.
907.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of Chapter
907 , the terms "Decision Point," "Intersection Sight Distance," and "Sight
Triangle" shall have the same meanings as are set forth in the Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) Location & Design Manual, Volume 1, Section 201.3.1
"Sight Triangles," Reference Section 201-4, July 2020 edition, as the same may
be amended or updated from time to time.
   When not inconsistent with the context, words in the present tense include
the future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number, and
words in the singular number include the plural number. The words "shall" and
"will" are mandatory and "may" is permissive. Words not defined shall be given
their common and ordinary meaning. References hereafter to "Sections" are,
unless otherwise specified, references to Sections in this Chapter. Defined
terms remain defined terms whether or not capitalized.
 
907.03   SIGHT TRIANGLE TO BE MAINTAINED CLEAR OF OBSTRUCTIONS.
   A.   To ensure that the driver or operator of a vehicle approaching an
intersection will have an unobstructed view of the entire intersection and
sufficient lengths along the intersecting street to permit the driver to
anticipate and avoid potential collisions, appropriate Intersection Sight
Distance shall be provided at all intersections within the city of Oakwood.
This shall be provided in the form of unobstructed areas along all intersection
approach legs and across their included corners, which shall be clear of
obstructions that might block a driver's or operator's view of potentially
conflicting vehicles or pedestrians. Obstructions within the defined Sight
Triangle area that do not allow for appropriate Intersection Sight Distance are
hereby determined and declared to constitute a public nuisance, unless such
Intersection Sight Distance cannot be attained in a particular location as
provided in subsection C below.
   B.   This requirement shall apply regardless of whether the intersection
involves public streets, public alleys, private streets, or any combination
thereof, except that it shall not apply to any intersection consisting solely
of private streets.
   C.   If appropriate Intersection Sight Distance cannot be attained in a
particular location due to topography or other conditions that cannot be
feasibly altered via pruning, trimming, removal of landscaping, trees, or plant
material, or similar actions, the City Engineer may authorize instead the use
of other safety measures, as appropriate and warranted by the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, including but not limited to advance warning signs or
flashers.
907.04 PROCEDURES WHEN SIGHT TRIANGLE IS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   To the extent that maintenance of appropriate Intersection Sight Distance
requires the trimming or removal of landscaping, trees, or plant material
located outside the public right-of-way, upon private property, the following
protocol shall be followed:
   A.   The Director of Public Works or his/her designee shall provide written
notice to the property owner of the need for Sight Triangle clearance. The
notice shall inform the property owner of the following:
      1.   The dimensions and location of the Sight Triangle at issue, and the
extent of Sight Triangle clearance needed;
      2.   That the property owner shall have at least ten (10) calendar days
to:
         a.   Perform the clearance;
         b.   Make alternative arrangements with the Department of Public Works
satisfactory to the Director; or
         c.   Appeal the Director's notice to the General Appeals Board
established under Chapter
169  of the ordinances of this City.
       3.   That if the clearance is not performed, or alternative arrangements
are not made, or no appeal is filed within that timeframe, the City intends to
enter the premises and perform the clearance; and
      4.   That if the City performs the clearance, the costs thereof may be
billed to the property owner and, if unpaid, collected by civil action.
   B.   Notice may be provided via mail, posting at the property, hand-
delivery, or other method reasonably calculated to reach the property owner.
   C.   In the event of a dispute as to the need for, or scope of, Sight
Triangle clearance, or as to the calculation of the Sight Triangle area or
appropriate Intersection Sight Distance, a party may appeal the Director's
notice to the General Appeals Board established under Chapter
169  of the ordinances of this City. Standing to file such an appeal shall be
limited to the owners and/or occupants of the subject property.
      1.   Any appeal shall be made by delivering written notice of the appeal
to the office of the City Manager within 10 days after issuance of the
Director's notice. The notice of appeal shall satisfy the following
requirements:
         a.   It must specify the name and address of the appellant, the notice
from which an appeal is taken, and the location of the subject property; and
         b.   It must cite specific error by the Director and any other grounds
relied upon in support of the appeal.
      2.   Any such appeal shall be made and processed in accordance with
appeal procedures set forth in Section 1007 of the ordinances of this City with
regard to appeals to the Board of Zoning Appeals. The Director's notice may be
overturned, in whole or in part, only upon a showing of error by a
preponderance of the evidence.
      3.   Upon receipt of a timely notice of appeal, the City Manager or his/
her designee shall promptly schedule a date for a public hearing thereon before
the General Appeals Board. The City Manager or designee shall give written
notice of the appeal and of public hearing on that appeal to the applicant.
Notice of the public hearing shall be sent by ordinary US mail to the
appellant's address set forth on the notice of appeal, and shall be set forth
in the public meeting listing maintained by the Clerk of Council pursuant to
Section
111.13  of the ordinances of this City.
Legislative history:
Ord. 4919, passed 10/5/2020
TITLE THREE - Public Utilities
   Chapter
913 . Stormwater Management Utility.
   Chapter
915 . Sanitary Sewer Utility.
   Chapter  917 . Storm Sewers.
   Chapter
919 . Water Utility.
CHAPTER 913
Stormwater Management Utility
913.01   Establishment and Purpose.
913.02   Definitions.
913.03   Stormwater Charges.
913.04   Billing.
913.05   Penalty Charges, Interest and Remedies for Non-Compliance.
913.06   Schedule of Rates; Adjustments.
913.07   City Manager May Make Rules and Regulations.
913.08   Appeal.
 
913.01 ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
   The City Stormwater Management Utility is hereby established and this
chapter is adopted to protect public surface and groundwaters from degradation
by accelerated soil erosion and pollutants; and to maintain compliance with the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Phase II Stormwater
Program promulgated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) under
the provisions of the Federal Clean Water Act, as well as the requirements of
the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency General Permit No. OHQ000002 and its
successor permits. Protection from such degradation shall promote and maintain
the health, safety, and general well-being of all inhabitants of the city.
913.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply.
Words used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural, the
singular; words used in the present tense shall include the future tense. The
word SHALL is mandatory and not discretionary. The word MAY is permissive.
Words not defined herein shall be construed to have the meaning given by common
and ordinary use as defined in the latest edition of Webster's Dictionary.
BILLING PERIOD. The service period identified on the utility bill. Each account
shall be billed monthly or semi-annually in arrears of the service period. A
developed property that receives a city water or other utility service shall be
billed monthly in arrears of the service. A developed property that does not
receive city water or other utility service may be billed semi-annually in
arrears of the service.
 
BONDS. Revenue bonds, notes, loans or any other debt obligations issued or
incurred to finance the costs of construction.
CALENDAR YEAR. The 12-month period commencing on January 1 of any year.
COSTS OF CONSTRUCTION. Costs reasonably incurred in connection with providing
capital improvements to the system or any portion thereof, including, but not
limited to, the costs of:
   (1)   Acquisition of all property, real or personal, and all interests in
connection therewith including all rights-of-way and easements therefor;
   (2)   Physical construction, installation and testing, including the costs
of labor, services materials, supplies and construction services used in
connection therewith;
   (3)   Architectural, engineering, inspection, legal and other professional
services;
   (4)   Insurance premiums taken out and maintained during construction, to
the extent not paid for by a contractor for construction and installation;
   (5)   Any taxes or other charges which become due during construction;
   (6)   Expenses incurred by the city or on its behalf with its approval in
seeking to enforce any remedy against any contractor;
   (7)   Principal of and interest of any bonds; and
   (8)   Miscellaneous expenses incidental thereto.
DEBT SERVICE. With respect to any particular calendar year and any particular
series of bonds, an amount equal to the sum of:
   (1)   All interest payable on the bonds during the calendar year; plus
   (2)   Any principal installments of the bonds during the calendar year.
DEVELOPED PROPERTY. Real property other than undisturbed property.
DWELLING UNIT. A singular unit or apartment providing complete, independent
living facilities for one or more persons including permanent provisions for
living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT or ERU. The statistical average horizontal
impervious area of all residential developed property per dwelling unit located
within the city, as determined by the Director of Public Works and established
by City Council.
ERU RATE. A stormwater user fee charged on each ERU as established by City
Council.
EXEMPT PROPERTY. Public rights-of-way, public streets, public alleys and public
sidewalks.
EXTENSION AND REPLACEMENT. Costs of extensions, additions and capital
improvements to, or the removal and replacement of capital assets of, or
purchasing and installing new equipment for, the system or land acquisitions
for the system and any related costs thereto, or paying extraordinary
maintenance and repair, including the costs of construction, or any other
expenses which are not costs of operation and maintenance or debt service.
 
IMPERVIOUS AREA. The number of square feet of hard surfaced areas which either
prevent or retard the entry of water into soil mantle, as it entered under
natural conditions as undisturbed property, and/or causes water to run off the
surface in greater quantities or at an increased rate of flow from that present
under natural conditions as undisturbed property, including, but not limited
to, roofs, roof extensions, patios, porches, driveway, sidewalks, pavement and
athletic courts.
NONRESIDENTIAL DEVELOPED PROPERTY. Developed property that is not utilized for
dwelling units within the city. For purposes of this chapter, mixed-use
developed property that includes dwelling units as well as nonresidential uses
shall be considered nonresidential developed property.
OPERATING BUDGET. The annual operating budget adopted by the city for the
succeeding calendar year.
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE. The current expenses, paid or accrued, of
operation, maintenance and current repair of the system as calculated in
accordance with sound accounting practice, and includes, without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, insurance premiums, administrative expenses,
labor, executive compensation and cost of materials and supplies used for
current operations, and charges for the accumulation of appropriate reserves
for current expenses not annually incurred, but which are such as may
reasonably be expected to be incurred in accordance with the sound accounting
practice.
REVENUES. All rates, fees, assessments, rentals or other charges or other
income received by the Stormwater Management Fund, in connection with the
management and operation of the system, including amounts received from the
investment or deposit of moneys in any fund or account and any amounts
contributed by the city, whether outright or as an advancement, all as
calculated in accordance with sound accounting practice.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM or SYSTEM. The existing stormwater management of
the city and all improvements thereto which by this chapter are constituted as
the property and responsibility of the city, to be operated as an enterprise
to, among other things, conserve water, control discharges necessitated by
rainfall events, incorporate methods to collect, convey, store, absorb,
inhibit, treat, use or reuse water to prevent or reduce flooding, over-
drainage, environmental degradation and water pollution or otherwise affect the
quality and quantity of discharge from the system.
STORMWATER USER FEE. A fee authorized by ordinances established to pay costs of
construction, operations and maintenance, extension and replacement and debt
service.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FUND. The enterprise fund created by this chapter to
operate, maintain and improve the system and for other purposes as stated in
this chapter.
 
UNDISTURBED PROPERTY. Real property that has not been altered from its natural
state by dredging, filling, removal of trees and vegetation, or other
activities which have disturbed or altered the topography or soils on the
property.
VACANT IMPROVED PROPERTY. Unoccupied developed property that contains
impervious area.
913.03 STORMWATER CHARGES.
   (a)   Subject to the provisions of this chapter, each and every residential
developed property, nonresidential developed property and vacant improved
property, other than exempt property, within the corporate limits of the city,
and the owners and non-owner users thereof, shall have imposed upon them a
stormwater user fee. Because all owners and non-owner users of such property
are served by the City's stormwater management system, they shall be deemed to
have accepted the same in the form of a contractual agreement as a condition of
receiving or continuing to receive such service. In the event the owner and
non-owner users of a particular property are not the same, the liability for
each owner and non-owner user for the user fee attributable to that property
shall be joint and several. The stormwater user fee shall be a monthly interval
service charge and shall be determined by the provisions of this chapter and
the ERU and ERU rate which shall be established and changed from time to time
by City Council.
   (b)   The Stormwater Management Fund is hereby established as an enterprise
fund to receive all revenues collected pursuant to this chapter. All revenues
received by the Stormwater Management Fund shall be used solely for the
construction, operation and maintenance, debt service, and pollution prevention
and elimination activities of the stormwater management system. Funds shall not
be used for private purposes or to extend stormwater sewer services to
unsewered areas. If Council elects to establish a separate fund for the purpose
of funding capital improvements to the stormwater management system, nothing in
this section shall preclude the transfer of monies from the Stormwater
Management Fund to such separate fund, which is hereby authorized.
913.04 BILLING.
   The stormwater user fee shall be billed and collected monthly with the
monthly city's services utility bill. These fees shall be itemized and
collected separately as stormwater user fees, and shall be credited to the
Stormwater Management Fund. All bills for stormwater user fees shall be
rendered monthly by utility billing personnel within the Finance Department.
The stormwater user fee for those properties utilizing city utilities is part
of a consolidated statement for utility customers, which is generally paid by a
single payment. In the event that a partial payment is received, the payment
shall be applied in accordance with the city rules and regulations developed by
the Finance Department.
913.05 PENALTY CHARGES, INTEREST AND REMEDIES FOR NON-COMPLIANCE.
   (a)   Because the stormwater user fee is billed and collected with the
monthly city services utility bill, the water bill due dates, penalties,
interest, and fees for invalid payments set forth in Chapter
919.07( A), (B), (C) and (D) shall likewise apply to stormwater utility bills
as if fully set forth herein.
   (b)   When any bill for charges under this chapter is not paid when due, the
City may take any one or more of the following actions:
      1.   File a civil action at law to collect the amount due from any
property owner or non-owner user who is liable to pay the bill under the
provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Certify the unpaid bill to the County auditor, including any
penalties, interest, fees and/or other charges, as a lien against the property
served, but only after compliance with subsections a and b below. The amount so
certified shall be a lien on the property served from the date placed on the
tax list and duplicate and shall be collected, along with any applicable fees
and/or other charges, in the same manner as other taxes, except that the County
Treasurer shall accept a payment in such amount when separately tendered as
payment for the full amount of such unpaid stormwater utility bill and
associated penalties, interest, fees and/or other charges. The lien shall be
released immediately upon payment in full of the certified amount. Any amounts
collected by the County Treasurer through this procedure shall be placed
immediately in the type of separate and distinct fund described in Section
743.06 of the Revised Code.
         a.   The unpaid bill must have arisen pursuant to a service contract
made directly with the owner of the property served. Under Section
913.03 (a), all stormwater management service provided by the City is deemed to
have been contracted for by the property owner.
         b.   The bill must have been due and unpaid for at least forty-five
(45) days. In addition, at least thirty (30) days advance written notice of the
impending certification to the County Auditor must be given by the City to the
property owner. The requirements of this subsection shall not apply, however,
if the City determines that a transfer of any ownership interest in the real
estate is about to occur, in which case the City may proceed immediately with
such certification.
913.06 SCHEDULE OF RATES; ADJUSTMENTS.
   There is hereby established the following uniform schedule of rates for the
services and use of facilities of the stormwater management system by the
owner, tenant or occupant of the premises using the services and facilities of
the system.
   (a)   The City Council, upon recommendation of the City Manager, shall
establish reasonable rates for stormwater management systems for each one-
family, two-family, and three-family residential property; each such property
shall be billed a flat fee established by the City Council. These rates shall
be set forth on Appendix A to the Streets and Public Service Code, to be
amended by ordinance of City Council from time to time.
    (b)   For all residential properties containing four (4) or more dwelling
units, and all nonresidential properties, the rate shall be computed based on
the total impervious area of the property divided by the average impervious
area of an equivalent residential unit, times the rate established under
section (a), above, for an equivalent residential unit (ERU). The billing
amount shall be updated by the Engineering Department based on any additions to
or deletions from the impervious areas as approved through the building permit
process. Similarly, the billing amount shall be adjusted by the Engineering
Department to account for the addition or deletion of any on-site facilities
for the detention, retention, or other management of stormwater runoff, as
follows:
      (1)   In order to qualify for a credit or billing reduction for on-site
facilities, such facilities must materially reduce stormwater runoff that would
otherwise be attributable to the impervious area of the subject property, and
must be maintained in a manner that ensures that the on- site facilities
continuously function as originally designed. Such reduction must be
demonstrable and quantifiable, to the satisfaction of the City Engineer, in a
manner that allows for the calculation of the subject property's effective,
rather than actual, impervious area.
      (2)   To the extent that a property receives a credit or billing
reduction for on-site facilities, the deletion, removal, or abandonment/disuse
of such facilities shall result in a proportional decrease in the amount of the
credit or billing reduction applicable to the subject property. The net effect
shall be an increase in the billing amount for the subject property, which
shall not exceed the amount determined on the basis of the subject property's
actual impervious area.
      (3)   The City Engineer may require the applicant for any credit or
reduction under this section to substantiate the request for credit or
reduction with such reports, studies, product literature, and/or documentation,
with the certification of an Ohio-licensed engineer, as he or she deems
necessary to make any determination under this section.
      (4)   This section shall not be construed to authorize credits or refunds
that are retroactive in nature, nor shall it be construed to authorize credits
or refunds relating to facilities installed prior to the effective date of this
ordinance. Any credit or adjustment made under this section shall be made on a
prospective basis only.
913.07 CITY MANAGER MAY MAKE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Manager may make and enforce the rules and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management and
protection of the municipal stormwater system, for the construction and use of
the stormwater system and facilities, for connections to the stormwater system
and for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of charges or
rentals provided the rules and regulations are not in conflict with any
municipal ordinance. No person shall violate or fail to comply with any rule or
regulation.
 
913.08 APPEAL
   Any person disagreeing with the calculation of the stormwater user fee, as
provided in this chapter, may appeal the determination to the City Manager, or
his or her designee. Any appeal must be filed in writing and shall include a
survey, showing dwelling units, total property area, impervious area or
nonresidential developed area, drainage structures, drainage patterns and any
features that contain/retain/detain storm runoff on their own property, and
diminish the quantity of stormwater handled by the city, as appropriate. The
Manager may request additional information from the appealing party. Based upon
the information provided by the utility and appealing party, the Manager shall
notify the parties, in writing, of the Manager's decision. If still
dissatisfied, a party may request, in writing and within 30 days, a review by
the Stormwater Appeals Board. The request must cite specific error by the
Manager and the calculation, which the party feels, is correct. The Board shall
review the record presented and enter a written decision as soon as practical.
The Board may request additional information from either party.
   For purposes of this section, the members of the Sewer and Water Appeals
Board established under Chapter
167  shall constitute the Stormwater Appeals Board, which is hereby vested with
jurisdiction and authority to decide written appeals submitted pursuant to this
section.
Legislative history:
Ord. 4358, passed 11/5/2012; Ord. 4814, passed 12/7/2015; Ord. 4906, passed 4/
6/2020.
CHAPTER 915
Sanitary Sewer Utility
915.01   Authority of City Manager to adopt rules.
915.02   Collection of charges; rules and regulations.
915.03   Declaration of necessity.
915.04   Definitions.
915.05   Sewage service charges; payment.
915.06   Prorating sanitary sewer charges.
915.07   Penalty charges, interest and remedies for non-compliance.
915.08   Deposit of charges; use of funds.
915.09   Adjusting charges for loss of water.
915.10   Method of adjusting charges.
915.11   Responsibility of City and property owners.
915.12   Sanitary Sewer Connections.
915.13   Penalty.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Sewer rates - see ORC 729.49
Weekly deposit of sewer rentals collected - see ORC 729.52
Power to construct sewerage system - see ORC 715.40, 717.01. Compulsory sewer
connections - see ORC 729.06
Regulations to control house sewers and connections - see ORC 729.51
Street openings- see Bus. Reg. Ch.
741 and S. & P.S. Ch
901
Storm water discharge to sanitary sewer prohibited - see S. & P.S.
913.02
Power to license sewer tappers and vault cleaners - see ORC 715.27
Compulsory sewer connections - see ORC 729.06
Regulations to control house sewers and connections - see ORC 729.51
Cesspool covers - see Gen. Off. Ch.
901.
 
 
915.01 AUTHORITY OF CITY MANAGER TO ADOPT RULES.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized and empowered to adopt reasonable
rules and regulations as may be necessary or appropriate with regard to the
operation and usage of sanitary sewer facilities of and within this City. No
person, organization or agent, employee or contractor of such shall violate,
disobey or omit, neglect or refuse to comply with, or resist enforcement of,
any rule or regulation promulgated by the City Manager concerning the operation
or usage of sanitary sewer facilities of the City.
915.02 COLLECTION OF CHARGES; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The charges levied through this chapter shall be collected by the Water
Department. The Public Works Department and/or the City Manager shall make and
enforce such rules and regulations as may be deemed necessary for the safe,
economical and efficient management and protection of the sanitary sewer system
and the sewage pumping, treatment and disposal works, for the construction and
use of house sewers and connections to the sewer system, and for the
regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of such charges.
 
915.03 DECLARATION OF NECESSITY.
   It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare and convenience of the City to
levy and collect the charges described in this chapter upon all lots, lands and
premises served by having connections with the sanitary sewer system and the
pumping, treatment and disposal works used by the City. The proceeds of such
charges shall be used for the sanitary sewerage system and the pumping,
treatment and disposal works of the City.
915.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the terms "sanitary sewage" and
"industrial wastes" are defined as follows:
   A.   "Sanitary sewage" means the waste from water closets, urinals,
lavatories, sinks, bathtubs, showers, household laundries, cellar floor drains,
garage floor drains, bars, soda fountains, cuspidors, refrigerator drips,
drinking fountains and stable floor drains.
   B.   "Industrial wastes" means the liquid waste resulting from any
commercial, manufacturing or liquid operations or processes
915.05 SEWAGE SERVICE CHARGES; PAYMENT.
   For the purposes provided in Sections
915.03 and
915.08, there is hereby levied and assessed upon each lot, parcel of land,
building or premises having any sewer connection with the sanitary sewage
system of the City or in any manner discharging sewage, industrial wastes,
water or other liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the City sanitary
sewage system, a sanitary sewage service charge to be determined and paid as
follows and these charges are to be effective for the sanitary sewer bills to
be issued for service furnished on and after October 1, 1992, such service
being billed to customers by statements mailed in December, 1992.
   A.   For any such lot, parcel of land, building or premises situated within
(or beyond the boundaries of) the corporation limits of this City, the amount
of such charge shall be based on the quantity of water used thereon or therein,
as measured by the City water meter there in use or measured as described in
paragraph B below. Such charge shall be calculated at rates set forth on
Appendix A to the Streets and Public Services Code, to be amended by ordinance
of City Council from time to time.
   B.   If any such lot, parcel of land, building or premises is not a user of
water supplied by the Water Department of the City, and/or if the water used on
that property is not measured by a City water meter, or by a meter approved by
the City Manager, then in each such case the amount of water so used shall be
measured or determined by rules prescribed by the City Manager. In such a
situation the owner or other interested party at his expense may install and
maintain a meter acceptable to the City Manager as an alternative to having his
water usage determined under such rules.
    C.   In case a lot, parcel of land, building or premises discharges
industrial wastes either directly or indirectly into the City sanitary sewage
system and the City Manager finds that it is not practical to attempt to
measure such wastes by meter, he shall measure them in such manner as he may
find practicable in light of the circumstances of the case in order to
determine the sanitary sewer service charge.
   D.   Sewer service charges imposed by this chapter shall be paid monthly at
the office of the Water Department, and at the option of the City Manager may
be made due and payable at the same time as water bills and refuse bills.
915.06 PRORATING SANITARY SEWER CHARGES.
   For customers moving in or out and obtaining service for only a partial
billing period and when sewer consumption is less that the minimum, the minimum
charges imposed by this chapter shall be prorated based on the number of days
in the billing period that they have incurred service. For the purpose of this
section 28 days shall be considered a full billing period. If the measured
service exceeds the minimum charge, however, the measured rate shall be charged
instead of a prorated minimum rate.
915.07 PENALTY CHARGES, INTEREST AND REMEDIES FOR NON-COMPLIANCE.
   Any monetary penalties, interest, fees or charges, as described below, shall
be charged to said customer, and made part of and handled in the same manner as
the regular monthly utility charges.
   A.   If a utility bill is not paid within thirty (30) days after said bill
was originally issued, the customer shall be considered delinquent and a ten
percent (10%) penalty shall be charged said customer.
   B.   Any utility bill not paid by the due date shall be payable on demand
and shall bear interest at the rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%) per
month, for each whole or partial month after the due date.
   C.   Any payment subsequently made invalid for reasons including, but not
necessarily limited to, insufficient funds (e.g. returned checks) shall incur a
transaction cost of $20 per occurrence. Each charge levied through this chapter
is hereby made a lien upon the corresponding lot, land or premises served by a
connection to the City sanitary sewer system. If such charge is not paid within
forty-five days after it becomes due and payable, it shall be certified to the
Auditor of Montgomery County who shall place it on the tax duplicate of the
county with the interest and penalties allowed by law; and it shall be
collected as other taxes are collected.
915.08 DEPOSIT OF CHARGES; USE OF FUNDS.
   The funds received from the collection of the charges authorized by this
chapter shall be deposited as required by law in the City Treasury. They shall
be accounted for and be known as the Sanitary Sewer Disposal and Maintenance
Fund (sometimes referred to in these Codified Ordinances simply as the Sanitary
Sewer Fund) and, when appropriated by Council, shall be available for payment
of the costs and expenses of the levy and collection of sanitary sewer charges,
to discharge the obligation of the City for the use of the sanitary sewer
system of the City of Dayton and any other jurisdiction used as an outlet for
the sanitary sewer system of this City, and for operating, maintaining and
repairing the City sanitary sewer system.
915.09 ADJUSTING CHARGES FOR LOSS OF WATER.
   The Finance Director is authorized to adjust the sanitary sewer charges
downward if all the following conditions are met:
   A.   If the sanitary sewer user receives water from the City with the
consumption of such water being measured by a meter located outside the
structure of the user and at a point on the water service line before that line
enters the structure; and
   B.   If a loss of water is discovered to occur from a point in the service
line between the meter and the point at which the service line first enters the
structure or at a point on the service line before any outlet thereon or
extension therefrom to an outlet for the use of the water; and
   C.   If the loss is demonstrated to the City Manager by actual observation
and investigation; and
   D.   If the break resulting in such loss is promptly repaired by the person
responsible for the maintenance of such service line or by a person acting on
his behalf.
915.10 METHOD OF ADJUSTING CHARGES.
   If all the conditions set forth in Section
915.09 are found to exist, the Finance Director shall adjust the sanitary sewer
charges to an amount determined by averaging the measurements of service on the
past bills for the applicable month for such premises for such period of time
as sanitary sewer service has been used or for the preceding four years,
whichever is shorter.
915.11 RESPONSIBILITY OF CITY AND PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Nothing in Section
915.09 or
915.10 shall be construed to alter or affect the responsibilities of either the
City or of the property owners for the maintenance of water lines on either
side of the water meter, or of any user of water for charges for water as
metered.
915.12 SANITARY SEWER CONNECTIONS
   A.   No person shall make any tap to or connection with the City sanitary
sewers for any premises, for any person or for any purpose without having first
obtained a permit therefor as hereinafter provided. All such taps or
connections shall be made in strict accordance with this chapter.
   B.   PERMISSIBLE SEWAGE; NO RAIN OR SUBSURFACE WATER.
      1.   Only house drainage, commonly known as sanitary sewage, generated
from a structure permanently affixed to the land shall enter the City sanitary
sewers unless a permit for discharge or drainage from other sources is obtained
under paragraph B hereof. No downspouts or other conductors or drains designed
to carry rain surface or subsurface water shall be connected with or discharged
into such sanitary sewers.
      2.   Without first having obtained a permit therefor from the City
Manager, no person shall discharge or drain sanitary sewage into the City
sanitary sewers from any source other than as described in paragraph A hereof.
Any discharge or drainage of sanitary sewage into the City sanitary sewers must
be made in compliance with applicable standards promulgated by the City Health
Director and/or Public Works Director, as recommended to the City Manager.
   C.   The use of such sewers, taps and connections with such sewers, plumbing
drains, the discharge into the system and all materials, devices and
contrivances appurtenant to or to be used with such taps, connections or
plumbing shall be in strict accordance with and be governed by this chapter and
applicable provisions of the Ohio Revised Code.
   D.   There shall be a separate tap or connection with the sewer system for
each premises connected therewith.
   E.   The work of making taps or connections to such sewers or of installing
plumbing to be connected therewith shall be done only by persons licensed by
such other political jurisdictions in Montgomery County, Ohio as may be
reasonably designated by the City Manager to engage in the business of plumbing
in such jurisdiction, and such persons shall use only such materials, devices
and contrivances in doing such work as are in strict accordance with this
chapter. Where plumbing has heretofore been installed in a building in the City
by a plumber not licensed as above provided, however, that building may be
connected to the sanitary sewers upon compliance with the other provisions
hereof, if the previous work conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
   F.   Permits to make taps and connections with the sewers shall be issued by
the City Manager or his authorized representative. The person issuing such
permits shall keep full and complete records showing the date of issuance, the
party to whom issued, for which premises, the type of connection, the name of
the owner(s) of the premises, the person performing the work and the time
within which the tap or connection and all work in connection therewith shall
be completed. Such records shall always be open for the inspection of all
persons.
   G.   APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; PRELIMINARY INSPECTION.
      1.   Permits shall be issued upon the written application of the owner or
one of the owners of the premises for which they are intended or of the plumber
or plumbers who are to perform the work. In making an application, the
applicant shall be the agent of the owner of the premises named in the permit
and shall be bound by the terms of the application and permit.
       2.   Before any such permit is issued there shall be filed with the City
Manager or his authorized representative a certificate of the authorized
plumbing inspector that he has inspected the plumbing in the premises for which
the tap or connection with the sewer is desired and that the same conforms to
this chapter and the Ohio Revised Code.
   H.   INSPECTION; ORDERS TO CORRECT; REMEDY OF CITY.
      1.   After any tap or connection to the sewers is made and before the
trench containing the pipe is backfilled, the plumber doing the work shall
notify the City Manager or his authorized representative and the work from the
building line to the sewer shall be inspected as soon as practicable by the
authorized plumbing inspector. If he finds that the work conforms to this
chapter, the backfilling may be done, but the backfilling may not be done until
the work does conform.
      2.   If upon any such inspection, changes are ordered to make the
connection or tap conform to this chapter and the same are not made within 72
hours from the issuance of such order, the permit shall stand revoked. If that
occurs the City may remove as much of the work and material as is in the trench
within the limits of the street or highway and fill that part of the trench at
the expense of the owner of the premises.
   I.   TRENCH CONSTRUCTION AND REFILLING.
      1.   All trenches for the purpose of making connections with the sewers
shall be open cut from the surface and no tunneling shall be allowed. Within
the limits of any street or highway of the City, all excavations for any such
connection shall be governed and shall comply with the following rules:
         a.   The sides of the trench are to be kept vertical by bracing,
sheeting or otherwise.
         b.   All gutters, sidewalks, railway tracks, etc., are to be kept
clean and free from obstruction.
         c.   Excavated gravel is to be piled on one side of the trench, dirt
on the other.
         d.   No material suitable for refilling is to be taken from the work.
         e.   Sewer, gas and water pipes, lamp posts, etc., are to be protected
from injury.
         f.   Suitable barricades and red lights are to be properly placed so
as to warn and protect the public from injury.
         g.   Generally, backfilling is to be rammed under paved streets and
flushed under unpaved streets.
         h.   The trench shall be filled to a depth of not over four feet, and
flooded with water and continued until the trench is filled.
         i.   Earth shall be spread in six inch horizontal layers and
immediately rammed.
         j.   Rammers are to have faces not less than five inches square and
are to weigh not less than twenty pounds each.
         k.   Every trench must have twelve inches of good clean gravel on top.
          I.   Gravel on top of the trench is to be piled not higher than four
inches above the grade of the street.
         m.   All surplus dirt is to be removed and the street left perfectly
clean.
         n.   All bouldered gutters are to be repaved.
         o.   All curbing or sidewalks damaged are to be reset or replaced.
         p.   New paving must match neatly with the adjoining work.
      2.   The surface of the street or highway over any such trench shall be
restored to its former condition as nearly as possible, both as to grade
surface and paving, to the satisfaction of the City Manager or his authorized
representative.
   J.   To pay the cost of issuing permits and making inspections, fees shall
be charged in the amounts set by the City Manager under Chapter
153  of the Administrative Code.
   K.   PROPERTY OUTSIDE CITY; PERMIT AND FEE.
      1.   Subject to the provisions and conditions of the chapters dealing
with sanitary sewers, any property outside of but contiguous to the City may be
connected with the sanitary sewers of the City. Before any such connection is
made, however, a permit therefor shall be obtained and the applicable fees
paid. The use made of the sanitary sewers in connection with any such outside
property shall be governed and controlled by the ordinances of the City.
      2.   As to property outside the City, there shall be a separate sanitary
sewer service connection for each house, and in the case of a double house
there shall be two sanitary sewer service connections. No structures except
dwelling houses shall be connected with sewers under this chapter.
   L.   CONNECTION OUTSIDE CITY WITHOUT PERMIT. If any property outside of the
City is connected with the sanitary sewers without a permit having been
obtained therefor, or if the use of the sewers in connection with any outside
property is not in accordance with the ordinances of the City pertaining
thereto, the service connection from such outside property shall be removed by
order of the City Manager.
   M.   UTILIZATION CHARGES. Those properties located within the City of
Oakwood and identified as City Pt. Lot #2854, one property identified by County
Auditor as Parcel 10-9-3, City Pt. Lot #2855, one property identified by County
Auditor as Parcel 10-8-5 and three properties on City Lot #2861 identified by
the County Auditor as Parcels 10-10-3, 10-10-4 and 10-10-5 shall be subject to
a utilization charge provided for herein at the time of connection to the
project. The utilization charge for each property identified herein shall be
$15,045.33 if the connection is made in 1993. The utilization charge in
subsequent years shall be as follows:
1994 $15,496.69
1995 $15,961.59
1996 $16,440.44
1997 $16,933.65
1998 $17,441.66
1999 $17,964.91
2000 $18,503.86
2001 $19,058.97
2002 $19,630.74
2003 $20,219.66
2004 $20,826.25
2005 $21,451.04
2006 $22,094.57
2007 $22,757.41
2008 $23,440.13
2009 $24,143.33
2010 $24,867.63
2011 $25,613.66
2012 $26,382.07
2013 $27,173.53
 
   The incremental charges provided for herein are intended to offset interest
costs or loss of interest earnings as a result of the payment by the City of
the cost of construction of the Project. Because of the design of the Project
and the necessity for City Pt. Lot #2855 (Parcel #10-8-5) to be served in part
by pumping facilities, the utilization charge against this lot is reduced by
$5,000.
   This utilization charge is intended as a recovery of a capital investment by
the City and is in addition to the fees for permits and inspections provided
for in Section
915.12  (J) of the Codified Ordinances.
   No property identified herein or any other property shall be connected
directly or indirectly to the Project unless the connection is made in
conformity with all applicable provisions of this Chapter of the Codified
Ordinances and rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto and the
applicable utilization charge is paid to the City in full. In the event the
City Manager shall ascertain that any property has been connected directly or
indirectly in violation of the provisions of this Ordinance or other rules and
regulations of the City, the City Manager is authorized to disconnect or cause
to be disconnected such property from the System until such violation shall
cease.
   The utilization charge shall be deposited to the credit of the Sanitary
Sewer Disposal and Maintenance Fund.
   Any utilization charge not paid in full at the time of the connection shall
be certified by the City Manager to the County Auditor who shall place the same
upon the real property tax list and duplicate against the property serviced by
such connection and such charge shall be a lien on such property from the date
it is placed on the real property tax list and duplicate by the Auditor shall
be collected in full in the tax collection year following the year of
certification to the County Auditor.
   N.   Whoever violates any of the provisions of Sections
915.12 (A) through
915.12 (J), inclusive, shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor for the first
offense and of a fourth degree misdemeanor for each subsequent offense. If any
sanitary sewer connection or other act or situation in violation of any of
those sections is continued in existence for five days, it shall constitute a
separate offense.
  
915.13 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor for a first offense and of a fourth degree misdemeanor for every
subsequent offense. Each day a violation continues to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
Legislative history:
Ord. 703, passed 3/5/28; Ord. 2107, passed 10/19/59; Ord. 2254, passed 3/18/63;
Ord. 2510, passed 10/2/67; Ord. 2854, passed 12/17/73; Ord. 2858, passed 2/4/
74; Ord. 2963, passed 6/7/76; Ord. 3008, passed 8/22/77; Ord. 3039, passed 3/
20/78; Ord. 3062, passed 9/11/78; Ord. 3091, passed 6/18/79; Ord. 3158, passed
9/15/80; Ord. 3386, passed 12/5/83; Ord. 3387, passed 12/5/83; Ord. 3398,
passed 1/16/84; Ord. 3399, passed 1/16/84; Ord. 3718, passed 1/18/88; Ord.
3719, passed 1/18/88; Ord. 3934, passed 3/6/90; Ord. 3965, passed 6/4/90; Ord.
4040, passed 2/4/91; Ord. 4130, passed 5/4/92; Ord. 4144, passed 7/13/92; Ord.
4217, passed 10/4/93; Ord. 4218, passed 10/4/93; Ord. 4266, passed 9/12/94;
Ord. 4441, passed 8/16/99; Ord. 4567, passed 1/10/05; Ord. 4620, passed 1/22/
07; Ord. 4692, passed 2/1/2010; Ord. 4693, passed 2/1/2010; Ord. 165, passed 8/
17/14; Ord. 172, passed 11/10/14; Ord. 4814, passed 12/7/15;
 
 CHAPTER 919
Water Utility
919.01   Authority of department to adopt rules.
919.02   Purpose.
919.03   Definitions.
919.04   Duties and powers of the water utility.
919.05   Rights and responsibilities of water utility customer.
919.06   Water service fees, costs and charges.
919.07   Penalty charges, interest and remedies for non-compliance.
Addendum A Water Service Rate Chart
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Power to provide and regulate water system - see ORC 715.08, 717.01, 743.01
Water pollution - see ORC 715.08, 743.24 et. seq.
Compulsory water connections - see ORC 729.06, 743.23
Tampering with water hydrants, pipes or meters; unauthorized connections,- see
ORC 4933.22
Department of Water - see ADM.
135.01
Water supply requirements - see Prop. Main. Code.
Certification of water bills to County Treasurer as tax liens - see ORC 743.04.
 
 
919.01 AUTHORITY OF DEPARTMENT TO ADOPT RULES.
   The Water Department and/or the City Manager is hereby authorized and
empowered to adopt reasonable rules and regulations as may be necessary and
appropriate to the operations of that department. Such rules may include, but
need not be limited to, provisions for protection of the well fields of the
City.
919.02 PURPOSE.
   To provide for delivery of water service to customers both within and
outside the corporate limits of the City of Oakwood, there shall be and is
hereby enacted legislation setting forth the methods, procedures, costs,
requirements and responsibilities associated with delivery of such service.
919.03 DEFINITIONS.
   CITY - The City of Oakwood, a political subdivision of the State of Ohio,
located in Montgomery County.
   CUSTOMER - A person who derives benefit from the delivery of water service
provided by the City of Oakwood, whether such person may be classified as an
owner, landlord, occupant, resident, tenant or consumer.
 
   DEDUCT METER - A meter which may be installed for purposes of avoiding
sanitary sewer charges for water consumed but not returned to the water
facility for treatment through the normal sanitary sewer drain system. If
deduct meter is hooked up as a direct service line, sanitary sewer charges do
not apply on consumption reading. If deduct meter is connected after a main
meter, the deduct meter consumption will be deducted from the master meter
consumption to arrive at the consumption amount on which sewer charges will be
billed. Water charges will be billed on the entire master meter connection.
   DIRECTOR - The Director of Engineering and Public Works, or the Director of
Finance, employed by the City of Oakwood, responsible for the administration,
application and/or enforcement of these water ordinances.
   DROP BOX - A drop box has been placed in the alley across the street from
the municipal building located at 30 Park Ave. for the convenience of water
customers. Payments delivered to this drop box while the administrative offices
are open shall be considered as having been paid or delivered that same day;
however, payments or correspondence delivered to this drop box after office
hours will be considered as having been received the next business day. (Also
see PAYMENT, below)
   MASTER METER - The primary meter which measures all city water being
distributed to a specific service address.
   METER - A water flow measuring device which shall include the physical meter
and any remote reading device, including battery and electrical wire, necessary
to provide the City with remote reading capability.
   PAYMENT- Payment(s) shall be considered as having.been received when
delivered in the form of cash, valid check, or charge to the administrative
offices located at 30 Park Avenue within the City limits of Oakwood. (Also see
definition of DROP BOX above)
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING -   A non-accessory building in which the principal use
(of the lot on which the building is situated) is conducted.
   WATER UTILITY - Includes employees, contractors or sub-contractors working
on behalf of the water utility.
 
919.04 DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE WATER UTILITY.
   In addition to the services described in Chapter
135 :
   A.   All water sold by the Water Department shall be measured by meters
maintained at the premises served. This includes water delivered to premises
under construction and measured through use of a temporary metering device.
   B.   The City shall furnish one water meter, of 5/8" or 3/4" size, free of
charge, for each new principal building erected within the City of Oakwood or
served by the City, but the City shall not be responsible for paying for the
cost of installation of any such water meter. The City shall be responsible for
performing or contracting for the performance of all such work and the City
thereafter to charge the customer for such work. Alternatively, the City may
permit the owner of the new principal building to contract directly for such
installation work. Such meters furnished by the City shall remain the property
of the City, and shall be replaced by the City, as necessary, at no cost to
property owners beyond the minimum charge for normal wear, tear and routine
maintenance that is included on all monthly invoices.
      1.   The fact that a principal building may contain more than one
dwelling unit or more than one business unit shall not affect application of
this section and the City shall furnish no more than one water meter for any
such multi- unit principal building. Further, this section shall be applied
consistently to all multi-unit principal buildings, whether the units are owned
separately as condominium units or are owned together as one rental property.
      2.   If a water meter of some size other than 5/8" or 3/4" is desired by
the owner of the building, such other size water meter must be paid for by the
building owner; the City of Oakwood will not provide, free of charge, any other
such size meter, nor will the City allow a credit for the cost of a 5/8" or 3/
4" meter. This policy on installing other than 5/8" or 3/4 " meters shall be
the same as the policy for installing 5/8" or 3/4" meters as described in
 919.04  B above.
   C.   Where deemed necessary, the City Manager may at any time require any
customer to install a water meter at the customer's own expense, whereupon
rates for metered water services shall be applicable.
   D.   The City of Oakwood assumes maintenance responsibility for water mains
and service lines from the water main to and including the curb box water shut-
off valve. The property owner and any tenant together referred to as the
"customer" are responsible for water service lines and fittings from the curb
box to the principal structure and for all plumbing lines and appurtenances in
structure.
    E.   Water bills shall be rendered by the City at least once each month.
They shall be based upon an actual reading of the customer's meter during that
period, except in the case of a meter or remote-reading malfunction or other
problem, in which case an estimated bill may be rendered. The City shall
promptly repair malfunctions or other problems to limit the reliance on
estimated billing.
   F.   Whenever any notice is required or permitted under this chapter, it
shall be mailed by regular United States mail to the last known address of the
owner, occupant or other customer, and said notice shall be deemed given two
(2) days after mailing a copy of said notice, to the last known address of the
customer and delivering a copy thereof at the property for which such water
service was contracted.
   G.   To ensure that users of the public water system are protected against
connections of supplemental water systems, the City shall make an annual
inspection of each supplemental water system to make certain that no
supplemental source of water is connected to or used with the public water
system of this city. The annual inspection by the City shall be expanded to
include a determination of wh?ther or not supplemental water systems used for
internal consumption of residents comply with all applicable regulations of the
State Department of Health and Oakwood Board of Health.
   H.   It shall be the duty of the Director to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply where actual or potential hazards to the public water
supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a matter of
public record and shall be repeated as often as the Director shall deem
necessary.
   I.   The Director shall require recertification of any installed backflow
prevention device at least once every twelve months at the expense of the water
customer.
   J.   Upon request of property owners for the installation of water
sprinkling meters upon their premises, for purposes of avoiding sewer charges
on such outdoor water usage, the Water Department is hereby authorized to
provide and install such water sprinkling meters. The policy for installing
water sprinkling meters shall be the same as described in
919.04  B above, and the property owner shall be responsible for the cost of
both the water sprinkling meter and installation. Installation shall be in
frostproof meter boxes or in an indoor location approved by the Water
Department.
   K.   The City may, upon obtaining authorization from customer, automatically
and directly deduct the amount of utility bill from customer's respective bank
account on a regular and continuing basis. This direct pay program shall be
conducted in accordance with policies and procedures outlined in Water Rules
and Regulations as established and approved by the City Manager.
   L.   If any payment, direct pay or otherwise, is found or determined to be
invalid, such payment plus any accrued penalties, interest, fees and/or other
charges may be added back to the property account (service location) and
certified to the County auditor for collection, as detailed in section
919.07  F of the codified ordinances.
   M.   The City may use any security deposit under this Chapter as payment for
any water bill not paid when due. If the amount of the deposit is reduced at
any time, it must be replenished by the customer within seven days after
written notice from the city to do so. Failure to replenish the account will be
considered the same as not paying a water bill and will subject the customer to
one or more of the actions listed under
919.07 F herein.
   N.   The Director is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to any property
wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this ordinance is
known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he may deem
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water supply
system. Water service to such property shall not be restored until such
conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions
of this ordinance.
   O.    When requested by a customer, the Director may authorize partial
payments of unpaid amounts and establishment of a payment plan. Authorization
of partial payments and payment plan is at the sole discretion of the Director
and shall be considered if in the Director's judgment the customer is unable,
due to hardship conditions, to pay the full amount due. When such payment plan
is
   P.   Authorized, it shall be for a period of twelve (12) months duration or
less, and shall be used when such deferred payments are the best means of
accomplishing the collection activities of this Chapter. Any such request for
deferred payments extending beyond a twelve-month period from the date of the
request shall require written approval of the City Manager, at the
recommendation of the Finance Director and Law Director.
   Q.   All water services within the City rights-of-way must be copper unless
the City Manager accepts an approved equivalent.
919.05 RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF WATER UTILITY CUSTOMER.
   A.   Each property within the City and any other property receiving water
services from the City of Oakwood shall be outfitted with a water flow
measuring device and remote transmitter, which shall be used to measure
consumption. Such consumption shall serve as the basis for billing customers
for services rendered by the City. Each customer shall be responsible for
providing reasonable access for installation, repair and/or maintenance of such
consumption measuring equipment. Failure to comply and/or have meter installed
may result in criminal charges, as stipulated in Section
919.07 M of this Chapter.
   B.   All owners and all occupants of real estate premises who receive water
service from or through the City shall be deemed to have accepted in the form
of a contractual agreement and complied with the provisions of this Chapter
919  and all Water Rules and Regulations as a condition of receiving or
continuing to receive such water service. Failure to comply shall constitute a
violation of this section.
   C.   Leased or rented property: If a property owner enters into an agreement
to lease or rent property to another person or organization, the property owner
shall be required to act as follows:
      1.   To sign the water service contract with the city, as the customer;
or
      2.   To have the tenant contact the City to provide required billing
information, with the property owner being required to sign a written guarantee
of payment. This guarantee shall specify that, if the tenant-customer fails or
refuses to pay a water bill when due or to comply (within the time reasonably
required by the City) with this chapter, the property owner- guarantor shall
pay such delinquent bill and cause the provisions of this chapter to be
complied with. Such payment or compliance must be made by the property owner-
guarantor within ten (10) days after the City has given written notice of the
delinquency or chapter violation, subject to his right to appeal that payment
delinquency or chapter violation to the Sewer and Water Appeals Board under
Section
919.07  E 1. That board is also referred to in Chapter
167  of the Administrative Code.
   D.   Maintenance of lines and meters: Both the property owner and any tenant
(together referred to as the "customer") shall be jointly and severally
responsible for all charges made through this Chapter
919  and for violations of this chapter, and for the care, maintenance, repair
and replacement (collectively referred to as "maintenance") of water service
lines, fittings and accessories, including but not limited to meter pits, from
the curb box to the house or other building, as well as all plumbing lines and
fixtures on the outflow side (i.e., building plumbing side) of the meter,
regardless of whether the customer account for such property or any such charge
was carried in the name of or furnished to the owner or any occupant who is not
the owner, and whether or not the occupant signed a water service contract or
the owner signed a guarantee under paragraph C of this section.
      1.   "Maintenance" shall be performed in a quality-workmanship manner and
in accordance with standards established and revised from time to time by the
Water Department.
      2.   The cost for repair or replacement of water meter equipment
resulting from other than normal wear, tear and routine maintenance shall be at
the customer's expense, and the City shall be responsible for performing or
contracting for the performance of all such work and the City thereafter to
charge the customer for such work. The City shall be responsible for the repair
or replacement of water meters on the premises, if determined to be the result
of normal wear and tear, or for purposes of routine maintenance.
      3.   The customer shall be responsible for any and all charges for water
consumed by leaking fixtures and/or plumbing on the outflow side of the meter.
   E.   Since the furnishing of water to a property benefits that property and
is an attribute thereof, the property shall be liable for any such charges in
the same manner as is the case for real estate taxes and assessments all of
which are and shall be liens against said property. It shall be the
responsibility of the buyer and/or agent of the buyer to check for outstanding
balances prior to the purchase of a property. Although a property owner, due to
the wording in a lease or rental agreement, may hold a tenant or lessee
responsible for payment of utility bills, property owner shall have ultimate
responsibility for payment of utility bills.
   F.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent contractual
arrangements between owners, occupants, tenants, sellers, purchasers and
previous owners of real estate requiring some certain party to pay such charges
as a condition of the arrangements between these parties. Such contractual
arrangements, however, shall operate only between the parties and shall not be
deemed to interfere with or affect the actions of the City in discontinuing
water service, or initiation of any other action under
919.07 , in order to collect water charges or to enforce compliance with this
chapter.
   G.   The owner shall be responsible for the cost and installation of meters
other than 5/8" or 3/4" in size. The installation cost shall be based on the
then current wage scale and the time of City employees required to make the
installation or the direct contractual cost. All water meters connected to the
City system must meet City specifications.
   H.   The Director, or his duly authorized representative, shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of the City of Oakwood for the
purpose of inspecting the piping system or systems thereof. On demand, the
owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the
Director any information which he may request regarding the piping system or
systems or water use on such property. Refusing to provide such information,
when demanded, shall, at the discretion of the Director, be deemed evidence of
the presence of improper connections as provided in this ordinance.
Notification of need for access shall be made in writing and delivered to the
owner, lessee or occupants in person or by United States mail.
   I.   When property to which water service is provided is about to be sold,
any party to the sale (or the agent for such party) may request that the City
render within ten (10) days from the date of that request the final bill for
all outstanding water service and charges. Any such request must be made at
least fourteen (14) days prior to transfer of the title of such property.
   J.   Within fourteen (14) days after recording with the Recorder of
Montgomery County the legal documents of any condominium or any planned unit
development to be serviced by the Water Department of this City, the owner of
any such project shall file with the Water Department a time-stamped copy of
those recorded documents. That copy shall show the microfiche number assigned
by the Recorder's office to the documents.
   K.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each water
service line to a consumer's premises to the extent required by the United
   L.   States or Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) through it's
applicable regulations. The type of device that may be approved and the manner
of installation shall be as required by those EPA regulations. Each consumer
whose water service line is required to have such a device shall be obligated
to purchase that device and to have it installed at his expense. To the extent
the EPA regulations allow or require some decisions by the supplier of water,
the Director shall make those decisions through water rules and regulations
authorized by Section
919.01 or by a written memorandum issued and signed by the Director.
      1.   If, in the judgment of the Director, an approved backflow prevention
device is necessary for the safety of the public water system, the Director
will give notice to the water customer to install such an approved device
immediately. The water consumer shall, at his or her own expense, install such
an approved device at a location and in a manner approved by the Director and
shall have initial inspections and tests made of such approved devices as
required by the Director.
      2.   If a water consumer installs a backflow prevention device without
the prior approval of the Director, the water customer shall give written
notice of said installation to the Director within seven (7) days following
said installation and shall obtain a permit and pay for inspections and tests
thereof as required by the Director.
 
   M.   All water meters must be grounded to an appropriate grounding source.
If a water system is not grounded and if the customer is not available or not
able to address a grounding issue at the time it comes to the attention of a
City representative, the City shall have authority to make such repairs as are
necessary to ground the system. The cost of the work shall be an additional
charge added to the customer's next water bill.
   N.   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the City of Oakwood may enter the supply or distributing system
of said municipality, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply
and the method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by
the Director and by the Ohio EPA.
   O.   No source of water which supplements the supply available through the
public water system of this City (supplemental water system) may be connected
to, or used when connected to, that public water system. Any supplemental water
system so connected must be disconnected at once. Supplemental water systems
shall include, but are not limited to, private wells, cisterns, surge tanks,
etc.
      1.   The owner of each supplemental water system shall pay to this City
an annual inspection fee to be set by the City Manager under Chapter
153  of the Administrative Code.
      2.   If a supplemental water system is used for internal consumption of
any person, it must comply with all applicable regulations of the State
Department of Health, the City Board of Health and of any other government
agencies having jurisdiction over such matters; the annual inspection by this
City shall be expanded to include a determination of whether or not any and all
such governing regulations are being met.
      3.   Every property in this City shall be obligated to pay at least the
minimum charges under the rates for the public water system, even if all water
for such property is supplied from a supplemental water system and not from the
public water system, as long as a public water system is available within three
hundred feet (300') of the perimeter of the property. Vacant structures cannot
escape the minimum billing by turning off the water service or removing the
water meter.
      4.   Nothing here shall preclude the use of supplemental water as long as
the source is not connected to the main supply. Each property within the city
limits must have a water meter connection to the main water supply and such
property owner shall receive and be responsible for a minimum billing, or a
billing based on actual consumption, whichever is greater. This cost is
intended to help support the cost of installing and maintaining the City's
infrastructure.
      5.   All existing or new wells must be reported to the City and
subsequently approved by the City of Oakwood.
   P.   No person may withdraw or attempt to withdraw water from any fire
hydrant, except an employee or agent of the City acting for City purposes, or
employees or agents of fire departments from other local governments who are
acting within the boundaries of this City under a mutual aid arrangement.
   Q.   If water service is discontinued by the City under this chapter, it
shall not be restored until the customer or property owner has deposited with
the City (as security for the prompt payment of water bills and for compliance
with this chapter) a sum of money computed as follows, the larger of the two
establishing the amount:
      1.   Double the amount of any delinquent water bill that was the basis
for discontinuance of service, or
      2.   Double the average monthly water bill for the premises during the
twelve most recently completed full months in which the property was occupied.
   R.   If water service to premises occupied by a tenant or lessee is to be
terminated pursuant to a finding of delinquency in payment on the part of the
property owner, or terminated pursuant to a finding by the Sewer and Water
Appeals Board of delinquency on the part of said property owner, the tenant
shall have the right to pay the delinquent amount to the City to avoid such
termination of water service or to deposit the security deposit addressed in
paragraph P above.
   S.   Water meter pits or vaults may not be installed or placed in the street
or on a paved surface. All meter pits or vaults are required to meet or exceed
provisions established by the City Manager and outlined in the Water Rules and
Regulations.
   T.   No person shall tamper with any metering device or bypass said device
without written permission of the Water Department. Such permission shall be
granted in emergency situations only. Any person who tampers with or bypasses
any water metering device shall be responsible for, and shall pay all costs
incurred in, repairing any damage resulting to the metering device.
   U.   Separate meters may be installed for water that is used solely for
sprinkling and irrigation purposes. All such meters must be obtained from the
City and shall remain the property of the City. Any customer wishing to use
such a meter shall have the duty to install it at his expense and at a location
approved by the City. Any sprinkling and irrigation meters must be equipped
with a remote reader. Customers who use sprinkling and irrigation meters must
reimburse the City for the cost of those meters and shall also bear the cost of
any maintenance work performed on those meters.
      1.   Sprinkling and irrigation meters may be installed on a "direct
reading" or a "deduction" basis. A direct reading installation is one in which
the sprinkling and irrigation water is kept separate from water used by the
home or other building on the location, and the reading on the meter discloses
the amount of water used for sprinkling and irrigation. A deduction
installation is used where the sprinkling and irrigation water is taken from
the water that has already passed through the master meter for the house or
other use at that location. The reading of the deduction meter then shows the
amount of water used for sprinkling and irrigation, and that amount is deducted
for sewer billing purposes from the usage shown on the master meter since
sprinkling and irrigation water is not subject to sanitary sewer charges. The
total reading for the master meter shall apply for water billing. A "deduction"
basis meter shall not be subject to the monthly minimum billing requirement
addressed in
919.06  and further detailed in the Water Service Rate Chart, located at the
end of this Chapter; however, a "direct reading" meter shall be subject to such
minimum billing requirements.
      2.   All meters installed in a deduction manner must be read and billed
monthly. If an estimated reading for the deduct meter is necessary for any
billing period as a result of the City's inability to gain access to attend to
a suspected meter malfunction, all water passing through the master meter that
month will be charged sanitary sewer rates as well as water rates. Once the
actual deduct meter reading is determined, the sprinkling and irrigation usage
shall be deducted from the total usage registered on the master meter, subject
to the limitation that the water meter amount shall not be reduced to a figure
lower than the minimum. If there is an excess or unused deduction for
sprinkling and irrigation water, it may not be carried over to a subsequent
month.
   V.   If a customer questions the accuracy of billings and/or consumption and
believes the meter equipment to be faulty, the customer may request testing of
such equipment. Upon request, the City will remove the existing meter and
install a new meter in its place. The old meter will then be sent to the
Montgomery County Sanitary Engineering Department, or other qualified testing
facility, for testing. A reading within a 2% variance is considered accurate.
If the meter tests faulty, greater than a 2% variance, the city shall bear the
cost of testing. However, if the test results indicate the meter is reading
accurately, i.e. within a 2% variance, then at the discretion of the Director,
the tested meter may be returned to service in it's previous location and I or
the customer may be required to bear the cost of testing.
 
   W.   The property owner has one week after a water leak has been reported to
them by the City of Oakwood to repair said leak, or the City may terminate
water service to the property.
   X.   Any and all rulings or determinations in regards to water service
provided by the City are subject to an appeal process as outlined in Section
919.07  E 1 c herein and Chapter
167  of the City Ordinances.
919.06 WATER SERVICE FEES, COSTS AND CHARGES.
   A.   The rates charged for water service shall be set forth on Appendix A to
the Streets and Public Services Code, to be amended by ordinance of City
Council from time to time. The rates to be charged by the Water Department
shall be as follows:
      1.    For the furnishing of water service to sprinkling meters or similar
special meters, the minimum monthly rate commensurate with meter size shall be
charged, even if there is no actual consumption, in the same manner as all
meters, except where a so-called "deduct meter" has been placed internally
beyond the master meter and within its metered system. Any meter for which no
minimum charge is made will be maintained at the property owner's expense.
   B.   Customers requesting a water sprinkling meter shall pay to the City a
sum equal to the then current cost of such a meter. If the City installs the
meter, the City shall charge the customer for the installation based upon the
then current wage scale and the time required by City employees to do the work,
or a minimum amount of $25.00, whichever is greater. The City shall make an
added charge to the customer for annual removal and resetting of such water
sprinkling meters, when required, based upon the current wage scale and time
involved, or for a minimum amount of $25.00, whichever is greater.
   The following charges shall be made to customers for stand-by, unmetered,
water service to fire sprinkler systems:
 
Size of Service Line Rate per Month Maximum Floor Area Square Feet
2-inch               $4.00          5,000 or less
4-inch               $7.00          10,000 or less
6-inch               $10.50         20,000 or less
 
      1.   For each 1,000 square feet of floor space served by such sprinkler
systems in excess of the above specified maximum area, an additional charge of
$.50 per month shall be added to the foregoing respective rates per month.
   C.   The fees charged by the City for the right to tap into a water service
line shall be as follows:
      1.   Line of 1" or less, $75.00 or the City's cost plus 15%, whichever is
greater.
      2.   Line of 2" or less, but greater than 1", $150.00 or the City's cost
plus 15%, whichever is greater.
      3.   Any line larger than 2" shall be charged at the rate of its number
of inches times the charge for a line of 1" or less, or the City's cost plus
15%, whichever is greater.
      4.   A fee may be charged by the City for each trip to the premises by a
City representative in connection with a tap-in. Said fee shall be the cost to
the City for each such occasion plus 15%.
   D.   The City shall charge the customer its cost for turning water service
on or off, except in cases of emergency and/or when such turning on or off is
authorized by the City to be done without charge.
      1.   Charges for service done by the City of Oakwood:
         a.   Non-payment of service -   $20.00 water turn off/on
         b.   Service turn off/on for extended period of time:
            $50.00 for service up to 1"
            $75.00 for service of 1"
         c.   The charge for an extended period of time shall include the
minimum billing. Subsequent months will be charged at the regular minimum
billing rate.
   E.   For customers moving in or out and obtaining service for only a partial
billing period, and when water consumption is less than the minimum, the
minimum charges imposed by this chapter shall be prorated based on the number
of days in the billing period that they have incurred service. For the purpose
of this section 28 days shall be considered a full billing period. If the
measured service exceeds the minimum charge, however, the measured rate shall
be charged instead of a prorated minimum rate.
919.07   PENALTY CHARGES, INTEREST AND REMEDIES FOR NON-COMPLIANCE.
   Any monetary penalties, interest, fees or charges, as described below, shall
be charged to said customer, and made a part of and handled in the same manner
as the regular monthly utility charges:
   A   If a utility bill is not paid within fifteen (15) days after said bill
was issued, any applicable discount shall be removed.
   B.   If a utility bill is not paid within thirty (30) days after said bill
was originally issued, the customer shall be considered delinquent and a ten
percent (10%) penalty shall be charged said customer.
   C.   Any utility bill not paid by the due date shall be payable on demand
and shall bear interest at the rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%) per
month, for each whole or partial month after the due date.
   D.   Any payment subsequently made invalid for reasons including, but not
necessarily limited to, insufficient funds (e.g. returned checks) shall incur a
transaction cost of $20 per occurrence.
   E.   In the event an occupant or property owner is delinquent in the payment
of a water bill or in violation of any provision of this chapter, water service
may be discontinued based on such delinquency or violation, but only after the
procedure set forth below has been completed:
      1.   A written notice shall be mailed to the last known billing address
of said customer, and shall be posted upon the premises served, and (if the
customer is a tenant) shall be mailed to the last known address of the property
owner, who has guaranteed payment of water bills and performance of such
regulation (such a guarantee being required by Section
919.05  C). Such notice shall state that water service to the premises will be
discontinued after the expiration of ten (10) days from the latest date on
which the notice was so posted and so mailed unless:
         a.   The delinquent bill is paid in full within that period of time;
or
         b.   The violation of this chapter has been eliminated within that
period of time; or
         c.   Within that period of time the customer (or property owner)
appeals the payment delinquency or chapter violation by delivering to the
office of the City Manager a written notice of appeal and of a request for a
public hearing on the appeal, such written notice to be signed by the customer
or the property owner.
      2.   A public hearing on a timely filed appeal shall be held by the Sewer
and Water Appeals Board not less than thirty (30) days after the written notice
of appeal was delivered to the office of the City Manager. At such hearing the
customer (or property owner) may obtain an accounting of all charges with
respect to which the City has found a delinquency. The City shall have the
burden of proof (by a preponderance of the evidence) as to the delinquent
payment or chapter violation. The customer (and/or property owner) may be
represented by legal counsel at said hearing, shall be given an opportunity to
dispute the alleged liability for delinquent water bills and alleged chapter
violation, shall have the right to cross examine opposing witnesses and to
subpoena supporting witnesses, and shall be afforded due process of law.
   F.   When any bill for water service and/or other charges under this chapter
is not paid when due, the City may take any one or more of the following
actions:
      1.   File a civil action at law to collect the amount due from any
property owner, occupant or other person who is liable to pay the bill under
the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Terminate the water service as provided in paragraph E above.
      3.   Certify the unpaid bill to the County auditor, including any
penalties, interest, fees and/or other charges, as a real estate tax lien
against the property served, but only after compliance with a and b below. The
amount so certified shall be a lien on the property served from the date placed
on the tax list and duplicate and shall be collected, along with any applicable
fees and/or other charges, in the same manner as other taxes, except that the
County Treasurer shall accept a payment in such amount when separately tendered
as payment for the full amount of such unpaid water bill and associated
penalties, interest, fees and/or other charges. The lien shall be released
immediately upon payment in full of the certified amount. Any amounts collected
by the County treasurer through this procedure shall be placed immediately in
the type of separate and distinct fund described in Section 743.06 of the
Revised Code.
         a.   The unpaid bill must have arisen pursuant to a service contract
made directly with the owner of the property served. Under Section
919.05  B, all water service supplied by the City is deemed to have been
contracted for by the owner.
         b.   The bill must have been due and unpaid for at least forty-five
(45) days.
    In addition, at least thirty (30) days advance written notice of the
impending certification to the County auditor must be given by the City to the
property owner. The requirements of this subsection shall not apply, however,
if the City determines that a transfer of any ownership interest in the real
estate is about to occur, in which case the City may proceed immediately with
such a certification.
      4.   If two or more consecutive water bills are not paid when due, the
city may require the customer or property owner to post a deposit with the city
as security for the prompt payment of water bills. The deposit shall be paid in
cash to the city within seven (7) days after written notice of the deposit
requirement is given by the city. The amount of the deposit and the manner of
giving any deposit notices shall be as set forth in sections
919.05  P and
919.05 Q of this chapter.
   G.   If within one week after a water leak has been reported to the customer
and to the property owner, no binding contract has been made by that customer
or owner with a licensed plumbing contractor to repair the leak within a
reasonable time, water service to the property will be terminated until proof
of such a contract is delivered to the City. Such termination may be appealed
in the same manner described in Section
919.07 E 1 c of this chapter. The leak report to the customer and owner shall
be in writing, shall give notice of the possible termination under this
section, and shall also explain the right of appeal.
   H.   If responsibility for water service charges at any particular property
is to be transferred from one customer to another, the City may refuse to
commence service to and in the name of the new customer until all outstanding
bills and/or all charges for that property under this Chapter have been paid in
full.
   I.   Any person who tampers with or bypasses a metering device shall be
responsible for and shall pay all costs incurred in repairing any damage
resulting to said device, in addition to a penalty of one hundred dollars
($100) which shall be applied to the customer's monthly invoice for each
violation of this provision. Each day the violation continues to exist shall
constitute a separate offense and additional $100 penalty.
   J.   Whoever violates this section by connecting a supplemental water system
with the public water system, or by knowingly uses a supplemental water system
that has been connected with the public water system, shall be guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. Any violation not corrected within thirty (30) days shall be
deemed to be a separate and new violation as another minor misdemeanor.
   K.   No person shall utilize water from any unmetered water service to a
fire sprinkler system for any purpose other than the fire sprinkler system.
Upon violation of this prohibition, the City Manager shall impose a civil
forfeiture of up to $100 and shall act under Section
919.04 C to require the service to be metered, as he deems appropriate.
   L.   No person may withdraw or attempt to withdraw water from any fire
hydrant, except an employee or agent of the City acting for City purposes, or
employees or agents of fire departments from other local governments who are
acting within the boundaries of this City under a mutual aid agreement. Whoever
violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree for
the first offense, the penalty for which shall be a fine of no less than $500,
no part of which may be suspended, but no term of imprisonment shall apply. The
second and each subsequent violation by such person occurring in the same
calendar year shall constitute a misdemeanor of the first degree, the penalty
for which shall be a fine of no less than $1,000, no portion of which may be
suspended, but no term of imprisonment shall apply.
   M.   Unless specifically prohibited by state or federal statute, or
otherwise stated within the confines of this Chapter:
      1.   whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of not less than $25 for the
first offense and shall be guilty of a fourth degree misdemeanor for each
subsequent offense.
      2.   Additionally, any act or condition which violates this chapter and
which continues to exist for five days shall constitute a separate offense.
Legislative history:
Ord. 2201, passed 8/8/61; Ord. 2510, passed 10/2/67; Ord. 2517, passed 11/20/
67; Ord. 3652, passed 11/17/69; Ord. 2785, passed 6/5/72; Ord. 3021, passed 1/
9/78; Ord. 3071, passed 12/18/78; Ord. 3072, passed 12/18/78; Ord. 3162, passed
10/6/80; Ord. 3184, passed 3/2/81; Ord. 3419, passed 5/21/84; Ord. 3427, passed
7/9/84; Ord. 3478, passed 3/4/85; Ord. 3530, passed 1/6/86; Ord. 3615, passed
1/5/87; Ord. 3633, passed 3/9/87; Ord. 3734, passed 3/28/88; Ord. 3756, passed
6/6/88; Ord. 3770, passed 6/20/88; Ord. 3772, passed 7/11/88; Ord. 3857, passed
5/15/89; Ord. 3927, passed 2/5/90; Ord. 3933, passed 3/6/90; Ord. 3938, passed
3/19/90; Ord. 4002, passed 9/17/90; Ord. 4011, passed 10/15/90; Ord. 4061,
passed 5/6/91; Ord. 4090, passed 10/21/91; Ord. 4131, passed 5/4/92; Ord. 4210,
passed 7/19/93; Ord. 4242, passed 3/21/94; Ord. 4266, passed 9/12/94; Ord.
4441, passed 8/16/99; Ord. 4446, passed 10/18/99; Ord. 4503, passed 4/1/02;
Ord. 4615 passed 10/2/06, effective 11-2-06; Ord. 4692, passed 2/1/2010; Ord.
4693, passed 2/1/2010; Ord. 4814, passed 12/7/2015; Ord. 4835, passed 1/9/2017.
 TITLE FIVE - Other Public Services
         Chapter
931 . Garbage and Refuse.
         Chapter
933 . Inspections.
         Chapter
935 . Parks.
CHAPTER 931
Refuse Program
931.01   Establishment and purpose.
931.02   Definitions.
931.03   Private collectors prohibited.
931.04   City Manager may make rules and regulations.
931.05   Residential refuse containers.
931.06   Commercial refuse containers.
931.07   Maintenance of containers.
931.08   Placement of containers.
931.09   Littering with garbage and refuse; unauthorized dumping.
931.10   Private disposal of building materials, tree and shrubbery trimmings.
931.11   Transportation of refuse over public streets.
931.12   Transfer of refuse from one place in the City to another is
prohibited.
931.13   Refuse pits and enclosures; composting.
931.14   Enforcement by refuse program employees.
931.15   Discarded substances (receptacle contents) as City property.
931.16   Undesirable accumulations; littering.
931.17   Refuse billing.
931.18   Penalty Charges, interest and remedies for non-payment.
931.99   Penalty.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Collection and disposal of garbage - see ORC 715.43, 717.01
Employment of scavengers - see ORC 3707.39
Disposal & transportation upon public ways - see ORC 3767.20 et. seq.
Service Department to collect - see ADM.
131.01
Duty to keep sidewalks in repair and clean - see GEN. OFF.
517.06
Littering; deposit of garbage, rubbish - see GEN. OFF.
517.06
Garbage and rubbish disposal - see Prop. Main. Code.
 
 
931.01 ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
   The city of Oakwood's refuse program is hereby established and this chapter
is adopted to provide for the collection, handling, transportation and disposal
of garbage, refuse and other forms of solid waste that may be generated by
properties within the city of Oakwood. Proper handling and disposal of solid
waste shall promote and maintain the health, safety, and general well-being of
all inhabitants of the city.
   The refuse program includes multiple services, including but not limited to
collection and disposal of weekly household garbage and recyclable materials;
special pick-ups; dumpster services; leaf and yard debris collection and
disposal; refuse collection and disposal from public parks and public events;
and operation of public drop-off programs at the Public Works Center, Creager
Field parking lot, or other public areas as may be established from time to
time. Charges are established under this chapter to provide sufficient revenue
to maintain all of the refuse program services.
931.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply.
Words used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural, the
singular; words used in the present tense shall include the future tense. The
word SHALL is mandatory and not discretionary. The word MAY is permissive.
Words not defined herein shall be construed to have the meaning given by common
and ordinary use as defined in the latest edition of Webster's Dictionary.
   A    "Ashes" means the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other
combustible materials.
   B.   "Commercial refuse" means all refuse that is not residential refuse,
specifically including but not limited to refuse generated by: commercial
structures; churches and institutional structures; mixed-use or other business
establishments; and multi-family condominium structures.
   C.   "Dwelling unit" shall have the same meaning as is set forth in Section
301  of the Oakwood Zoning Ordinance.
   D.   "Private collector" means a person, firm or corporation, other than the
refuse program, engaged in the collection, transportation and disposal of
residential or commercial refuse.
   E.   "Residential refuse" means refuse generated by single family homes and
by multi-family residential structures that are not owned and operated as
condominiums under Ohio Revised Code Chapter 5311.
   F.   "Refuse" means all solid waste. The term encompasses putrescible animal
and vegetable wastes of all kinds, including but not limited to wastes
resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food,
animal carcasses, animal and vegetable offal, as well as non-putrescible
wastes, including but not limited to rubbish, ashes, street cleanings,
abandoned automobiles, solid market and industrial wastes, building material
scraps, tree and shrubbery trimmings, tree limbs, leaves, dead vegetable
matter. Refuse does not include sewage and body wastes.
   G.   "Refuse program" means the solid waste management program of the city,
which shall be operated to, among other things, provide for the collection,
handling and disposal of garbage, refuse and other forms of solid waste that
may be generated by properties within the city of Oakwood.
   H.   "Required side yard" means a yard extending along a side lot line from
the front yard to the rear yard and required to be maintained by the Oakwood
Zoning Ordinance.
 
931.03 PRIVATE COLLECTORS PROHIBITED.
   All residential and commercial refuse within the City shall be collected,
transported and disposed of by the refuse program. No private collectors shall
engage in such activities except to the extent required by Section
931.10 and except as provided below in this section.
   A.   Refuse shall be collected, transported and disposed of by private
collectors to the extent that private refuse collection may be required by the
Planning Commission for a particular property or development. Such requirement
must be made for good cause shown after a public hearing with notice thereof
given to the owner(s) of the property or development to be affected by such
order.
   B.   Refuse shall be collected, transported and disposed of by private
collectors to the extent authorized by the City Manager in emergency situations
in which the refuse program is unable to collect, transport and dispose of such
refuse through the use of its own equipment and employees.
   C.   The City Manager is authorized, but not required, to enter into
contracts with one or more private collectors for the collection,
transportation and disposal of commercial refuse within the city.
      1.   Contracts under this section shall be in the nature of a franchise
in that they shall authorize the private collector(s) to engage in that
business in the city of Oakwood with all fees, charges and costs to be paid
directly to the private collector(s) by the customers whose commercial refuse
is collected.
      2.   Contracts under this section may apply to all commercial refuse, or
only to certain defined subsets of commercial refuse, in the City Manager's
discretion.
      3.   All commercial refuse to which a contract under this section applies
shall only be collected and disposed of by the contracted private collector.
931.04 CITY MANAGER MAY MAKE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Manager may make and enforce the rules and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management and
operation of the refuse program, specifically including but not limited to the
establishment of collection routes and schedules; requirements for containers,
handling, storage, access and collection of various categories of refuse such
as household garbage, refuse, recyclable material and yard debris; ancillary
programs such as leaf pick-up, mulching, special pick-ups, and other seasonal
or special programs; and for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding
of charges; provided the rules and regulations are not in conflict with any
municipal ordinance. No person shall violate or fail to comply with any such
rule or regulation.
931.05 RESIDENTIAL REFUSE CONTAINERS.
   All refuse within the City shall be placed for collection and stored in
tightly covered containers that comply with the capacity, weight, number, and
material specifications set forth in any rules and regulations promulgated by
the City Manager pursuant to Section
931.04. In the absence of differing specifications promulgated by the City
Manager, the following container specifications shall apply:
   A.   Capacity: Standard refuse containers shall be limited to a capacity of
35 gallons or less, and shall be utilized unless the Director of Public Works
determines that a larger rolling refuse container should be used in order to
provide compatibility with refuse program collection equipment or procedures.
Where the Director of Public Works requires the use of larger rolling refuse
containers, such containers will be provided by the refuse program and shall be
used instead of standard refuse containers, and shall be limited to a capacity
of 96 gallons or less.
   B.   Weight: No container shall be filled such that its total weight,
including the weight of the container, exceeds 60 pounds. Where the Director of
Public Works requires the use of larger rolling refuse containers, no such
container shall be filled such that its total weight, including the weight of
the container, exceeds 200 pounds.
   C.   Number: Each dwelling unit at each property served by the refuse
program shall utilize not more than three (3) standard refuse containers, each
having a capacity of 35 gallons or less. Any number of additional standard
containers of similar capacity may be utilized solely for recyclable materials,
provided they are properly labeled for such use. Where the Director of Public
Works requires the use of larger rolling refuse containers, each dwelling unit
shall utilize not more than one (1) rolling container having a capacity of 96
gallons or less.
   D.   Materials: All containers shall be of durable metal, plastic or such
other material as the Director of Public Works may from time to time authorize
as a sanitary, durable equivalent of metal or plastic for refuse storage and
collection purposes. If, in the discretion of the Director of Public Works, a
particular container is not deemed to be a sanitary, durable equivalent of
metal or plastic for refuse storage and collection purposes, it shall not be
utilized.
931.06 COMMERCIAL REFUSE CONTAINERS.
   Commercial refuse will be collected by the refuse program or by private
collector, as determined pursuant to Section
931.03, and the following container requirements shall apply:
   A.   If commercial refuse is to be collected by the refuse program, it shall
be stored and placed for collection in refuse containers of a type and size as
may be reasonably required by the Director of Public Works after consideration
of the container location, the anticipated volume and nature of refuse to be
collected, the personnel and equipment capabilities of the refuse program, and
any other relevant factors. The Director of Public Works may cause the refuse
program employees not to collect commercial refuse from premises having non-
compliant containers.
   B.   If commercial refuse is to be collected by private collector, it shall
be stored and placed for collection in refuse containers of a type and size as
may be required by such private collector, subject to approval by the Director
of Public Works after consideration of the container location, the anticipated
volume and nature of refuse to be collected, the personnel and equipment
capabilities of the private collector, and any other relevant factors.
 
931.07 MAINTENANCE OF CONTAINERS.
   A.   All refuse containers shall be maintained in a clean, sanitary
condition, and must be lidded. Lids shall be maintained in place so as to close
the containers when refuse is stored in them.
   B.   Refuse containers shall not be used for refuse storage and collection
when they are wet, soggy or deteriorated.
   C.   The Director of Public Works shall cause the employees or agents of the
City to remove and dispose of any refuse container that is so dilapidated,
rusted, or broken that it has become unsuitable for refuse storage and
collection purposes, and cannot be reasonably made suitable. Such refuse
container shall be deemed to be refuse itself, and the disposal thereof shall
not constitute a compensable taking.
931.08 PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS.
   Containers used for refuse storage and collection purposes shall be kept in
a location easily accessible to the employees and agents of the City, provided
that no such container may be placed or kept in a required side yard without
the authorization of the Director of Public Works. In order to facilitate such
access, the Director of Public Works may designate the location upon particular
premises at which containers shall be placed for collection, and may cause the
employees or agents of the refuse program not to collect refuse placed in any
other location.
931.09 LITTERING WITH GARBAGE AND REFUSE; UNAUTHORIZED DUMPING
   A.   No person shall cause any refuse to be strewn, placed, deposited or
maintained upon the ground or in any place open to the outdoors, except in a
container complying with the provisions of this chapter. No owner, tenant or
person in charge of any premises shall knowingly permit any such action or
permit any refuse to remain in any such locations except in such a container.
   B.   To facilitate the residential refuse collection and disposal service
described in this chapter, the City may place drop-off receptacles for refuse
on public property for use by customers of the City's residential refuse
collection and disposal service. When such receptacles are posted with signage
containing the words "For Use By Oakwood Residents Only" or words to similar
effect, it shall be unlawful for any person, who is not a residential customer
of the refuse program, to cause any refuse to be deposited in or around such
receptacle. It shall also be unlawful for any person, regardless of that
person's status as a residential customer of the refuse program, to cause any
refuse to be deposited in or around such receptacle when such refuse was
trimmed, cut, collected, removed from, or otherwise originated from property
outside the City. For purposes of this section, the term "receptacle" includes
cans, dumpsters, bins or any other kind of tangible container, and also
includes any permanent or temporary non- containerized area designated for the
drop-off of brush, branch, yard waste, recyclable material or other refuse.
 
931.10 PRIVATE DISPOSAL OF BUILDING MATERIALS, TREE AND SHRUBBERY TRIMMINGS.
   Refuse materials resulting from the construction, remodeling or alteration
of structures, from other improvements to premises, and from the trimming,
cutting or removal of trees, shrubbery and vegetation in connection with such
construction, remodeling or alteration or in connection with the general
clearing of a substantial portion of any lot shall be removed by the person who
produced or created such refuse. The Director of Public Works shall cause the
employees or agents of the City not to collect such refuse. Pursuant to Section
931.04, the City Manager may establish rules or regulations whereby vegetative
matter such as shrubbery trimmings, discarded Christmas trees and other such
matter easily chopped or disposed of may be collected and disposed of by the
refuse program.
931.11 TRANSPORTATION OF REFUSE OVER PUBLIC STREETS.
   No person, other than refuse program employees or agents or a private hauler
acting pursuant to a franchise agreement authorized by this chapter, shall
transport refuse over public streets in the City in any vehicle unless the
portion of such vehicle containing the refuse is covered and watertight,
provided however that if the refuse being transported consists entirely of yard
debris or other vegetative refuse, the portion of such vehicle need not be
watertight so long as the refuse is either contained within an enclosed area of
the vehicle or securely tied, bound or weighted so as to be incapable of being
blown or dropped from the vehicle.
931.12   TRANSFER OF REFUSE FROM ONE PLACE IN THE CITY TO ANOTHER IS
PROHIBITED.
   No person, other than employees or agents of the refuse program or a private
hauler acting pursuant to a franchise agreement authorized by this chapter,
shall collect refuse from a location in the City, transport it over public
streets to any other premises in the City, and unload, deposit or store such
refuse at that other premises.
931.13 REFUSE PITS AND ENCLOSURES; COMPOSTING.
   A.   No person shall install, construct or maintain any pit, structure or
enclosure for the depositing and/or storage of refuse other than containers as
authorized by this chapter.
   The Director of Public Works may require that the employees of the refuse
program not collect refuse from any such pit, structure, or enclosure.
   B.   Every such pit, structure and enclosure is hereby declared to
constitute a nuisance, and the City Manager may cause same to be abated in
accordance with law.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit composting of
vegetative/compostable matter in bins or other structures commonly used for
that purpose, provided that the same is maintained in a safe and sanitary
manner and is not unsightly, malodorous, noxious, or otherwise injurious to the
public welfare.
931.14 ENFORCEMENT BY REFUSE PROGRAM EMPLOYEES.
Unless otherwise authorized by the City Manager, employees of the refuse
program shall not collect refuse from any premises where there is a violation
of this chapter or of any rules or regulations promulgated by the City Manager
pursuant to Section
931.04. It shall be the duty of each refuse program employee having knowledge
of any such violation to immediately report it to his or her supervisor or the
Director of Public Works.
931.15 DISCARDED SUBSTANCES (RECEPTACLE CONTENTS) AS CITY PROPERTY.
   All refuse and any type of discarded materials set out for collection by the
refuse program shall become City property as soon as they are so collected by
the refuse program. Prior to collection authorized by this chapter, no person
may claim or collect any such materials other than the City itself or the owner
of any premises from which the materials were set out for collection.
931.16 UNDESIRABLE ACCUMULATIONS; LITTERING.
   All parking lots, sidewalks, tree lawns (the area between sidewalks and
curbs) and driveway approaches shall be maintained in a neat and clean
condition, free from litter, refuse, trash, snow, ice, unnecessary dirt and
debris. This duty shall rest upon the owner and persons in control of parking
lots and upon the owners and occupants of all real estate contiguous with
sidewalks, tree lawns and driveway approaches. No person shall dispose of
litter, refuse, trash, snow, ice, unnecessary dirt and debris in such a manner
as to cause such materials to litter the public streets and right-of-way areas.
The Director of Safety is hereby given authority to adopt reasonable rules and
regulations to implement the provisions of this section as may be necessary or
appropriate in the interests of the efficiency and service of the community.
931.17 REFUSE BILLING.
   All properties in the City will receive refuse collection and disposal
service from the refuse program, with the exception of properties serviced by a
private hauler pursuant to Section
931.03. Refuse program charges for this service will be collected monthly at
the rates set forth on Appendix A to the Streets and Public Services Code, to
be amended by ordinance of City Council from time to time. Because all such
properties are served by the refuse program, the owners thereof shall be deemed
to have accepted the same in the form of a contractual agreement as a condition
of receiving or continuing to receive such service, and will be billed for the
same, provided however that the City shall not be considered a billable
customer of the refuse program because the refuse program is operated as an
extension of the City itself.
   The refuse program charge shall be billed and collected monthly with the
monthly city services utility bill. These fees shall be itemized and collected
separately as refuse program charges, and shall be credited to the Refuse Fund.
All bills for refuse program charges shall be rendered monthly by utility
billing personnel within the Finance Department. The refuse program charge is
part of a consolidated statement for utility customers, which is generally paid
by a single payment.
   In the event that a partial payment is received, the payment shall be
applied in accordance with rules and regulations developed by the Finance
Department.
   For customers moving in or out and obtaining service for only a partial
billing period the monthly charge imposed by this chapter shall be prorated
based on the number of days in the billing period that they have incurred
service. For the purpose of this section 28 days shall be considered a full
billing period.
   The City Manager, with notice to City Council, is authorized to establish
reasonable charges for additional refuse services such as special pick-ups,
dumpsters, mulch programs, and the like. Such additional charges are warranted
when services are provided upon request or for the benefit of individual
customers, rather than as a routine or general service to all refuse program
customers.
 
931.18 PENALTY CHARGES, INTEREST AND REMEDIES FOR NON-PAYMENT.
   A.   Because the refuse program charge is billed and collected with the
monthly city services utility bill, the water bill due dates, penalties,
interest, and fees for invalid payments set forth in Chapter
919.07 (A), (8), (C) and (D) shall likewise apply to refuse program bills as if
fully set forth herein.
   B.   When any bill for charges under this chapter is not paid when due, the
City may take any one or more of the following actions:
      1.   File a civil action at law to collect the amount due from any
property owner user who is liable to pay the bill under the provisions of this
chapter.
      2.   Certify the unpaid bill to the County auditor, including any
penalties, interest, fees and/or other charges, as a lien against the property
served, but only after compliance with subsections a and b below. The amount so
certified shall be a lien on the property served from the date placed on the
tax list and duplicate and shall be collected, along with any applicable fees
and/or other charges, in the same manner as other taxes, except that the County
Treasurer shall accept a payment in such amount when separately tendered as
payment for the full amount of such unpaid refuse program bill and associated
penalties, interest, fees and/or other charges. The lien shall be released
immediately upon payment in full of the certified amount. Any amounts collected
by the County Treasurer through this procedure shall be placed immediately in
the type of separate and distinct fund described in Section 743.06 of the
Revised Code.
         a.   The unpaid bill must have arisen pursuant to a service contract
made directly with the owner of the property served. Under Section
931.17 , all refuse program service provided by the refuse program is deemed to
have been contracted for by the property owner.
         b.   The bill must have been due and unpaid for at least forty-five
(45) days. In addition, at least thirty (30) days advance written notice of the
impending certification to the County Auditor must be given by the City to the
property owner. The requirements of this subsection shall not apply, however,
if the City determines that a transfer of any ownership interest in the real
estate is about to occur, in which case the City may proceed immediately with
such certification. Any applicable monetary penalties, interest, fees or other
charges shall be charged to said customer, and made part of and handled in the
same manner as the regular monthly utility charges.
931.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor for a first offense and of a fourth degree misdemeanor for every
subsequent offense. A condition that constitutes a violation and that continues
to exist for five days shall be considered to be another separate violation.
Legislative history: Ord. 1164, passed 11/20/33; Ord. 2415, passed 3/15/66;Ord.
2503, passed 8/28/67;Ord. 2584, passed 10/7/68;Ord. 2644, passed 10/6/69;Ord.
2834, passed 6/18/73;Ord. 3013, passed 11/7/77;Ord. 3206, passed 6/1/81;Ord.
3457, passed 10/15/84; Ord. 3922, passed 1/2/90; Ord. 4296, passed 5/15/95;
Ord. 4692, passed 2/1/2010; Ord. 4693, passed 2/1/2010; Ord. 4776, passed 8/5/
13; Ord. 4780, passed 11/4/13; Ord. 4814, passed 12/7/15.
CHAPTER 933
Inspections
933.01 Inspections; fees.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Fee schedule - see ADM. Chapt.
153
 
 
933.01 INSPECTIONS; FEES.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized and directed to impose an inspection
fee for each such inspection made by City employees or agents in connection
with any permit issued by or for the City. The amount of such fee shall be set
under Chapter
153  of the Administrative Code.
CHAPTER 935
Parks
935.01   Rules and regulations.
935.02   Designation of park lands, public park nature areas and wooded parks.
935.99   Penalty.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Park and playgrounds - see ORC Ch. 755
Power to regulate vehicle speed - see ORC 4511.07 (E)
Bird sanctuary created - see GEN. OFF.
505.14
 
 
935.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Manager is hereby given authority to make rules and regulations to
preserve the good order of and to govern the maintenance and operation of parks
owned or operated by the City.
935.02 DESIGNATION OF PARK LANDS, PUBLIC PARK NATURE AREAS AND WOODED PARKS.
   A.   The City Manager shall have authority to designate real estate owned or
leased by the City, whether inside or outside the City boundaries, as being
part of the park lands of the City of Oakwood.
   B.   Portions of the park lands of the City may be designated by the City
Manager as public park nature areas as described in Section
551.02.
   C.   Portions of the park lands of the City, and portions of public parks
which are beyond the boundaries of this City but which are contiguous with land
in the City of Oakwood or are contiguous with street rights-of-way which border
property in Oakwood, may be designated by the City Manager as wooded parks.
(See  901.15  for a reference to additional yard setbacks required for
properties abutting or across the street from a wooded park.
935.99 PENALTY.
   Any conduct which violates park rules and regulations and which constitute
criminal damaging or endangering, criminal mischief, criminal trespass,
desecration, disorderly conduct, intoxication or possession of City property
shall be prosecuted under the appropriate section of state law or the General
Offenses Code. Every other violation of these rules and regulations shall be
prosecuted under this section and shall constitute a minor misdemeanor for the
first offense. Each subsequent violation, whether of the same or of a different
section of these rules and regulations shall constitute a fourth degree
misdemeanor.
Legislative history: Ord. 2485, passed 5/1/67; Ord. 3263, passed 5/3/82; Ord.
3462, passed 11/19/84; Ord. 4297, passed 6/19/95)
TITLE NINE - Rights of Way Administration
Chap.
951.   Rights-of-Way Administration.
Chap.
965.   Revocable Street Privileges for Non Utility System Providers.
CHAPTER 951
Rights-of-Way Administration
951.101   Declarations of findings and purpose, scope, definitions
951.102   Rights-of-Way administration
951.103   Discontinuance of operations; abandoned and unused facilities
951.104   Nature of issuance
951.105   Other approvals, permits and agreements
951.106   Certificate of Registration applications
951.107   Reporting requirements
951.108   Compensation for Certificate of Registration
951.109   Oversight and regulation
951.110   Registration term
951.111   Indemnity
951.112   Liquidated damages
951.113   Termination of Certificate of Registration
951.114   Unauthorized use of public Rights-of-Way
951.115   PEG requirements for open video systems
951.116   Transfer of ownership and renewal
951.117   Construction Permits
951.118   Construction, relocation and restoration
951.119   Minor maintenance permits
951.120   Enforcement of permit obligation
951.121   Construction and removal bonds
951.122   Indemnification and liability
951.123   General provisions
 
 
951.101 DECLARATION OF FINDINGS AND PURPOSE, SCOPE, DEFINITIONS
   951.101.1   FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   1.   The City of Oakwood, Ohio (the "City") is vitally concerned with the
use of all Rights-of-Way in the City as such Rights-of-Way are a valuable, and
potentially limited, resource which must be utilized to promote the public
health, safety, and welfare including the economic development of the City.
   2.   Changes in the public utilities and communication industries have
increased the demand and need for access to Rights-of-Way and placement of
facilities and structures therein.
   3.   It is necessary to comprehensively plan and manage access to, and
structures and facilities in, the Rights-of-Way to promote efficiency,
discourage duplication of facilities, lessen the public inconvenience of
uncoordinated work in the Rights-of-Way, and promote the public health, safety,
and welfare. Where it is in the best interest of the public health, safety, and
welfare and the aesthetics of the City, the City shall take steps to encourage
locating Facilities underground.
  
   4.   The City has authority under the Laws and Constitution of the State of
Ohio, including but not limited to Article 18, Sections 3, 4, and 7, to
regulate public and private entities which use the Rights-of-Way.
   951.101.2   SCOPE. The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to all users
of the Rights-of-Way as provided herein except as provided in Chapter
901. To the extent that any provision in this Chapter
951 conflicts with Chapter
901, the provisions of this Chapter
951 shall control.
 
   951.101.3   DEFINITIONS. For the purposes of Chapter
951, the following terms, phrases, words, and their derivations shall have the
meanings as set forth herein. When not inconsistent with the context, words in
the present tense include the future tense, words in the plural number include
the singular number, and words in the singular number include the plural
number. The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and "may" is permissive.
Words not defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning. References
hereafter to "Sections" are, unless otherwise specified, references to Sections
in this Chapter. Defined terms remain defined terms whether or not capitalized.
   1.   Applicant means any Person who seeks to obtain or renew a Certificate
of Registration or Permit.
   2.   Application means the process and format by which an Applicant submits
a request to obtain a Certificate of Registration or Permit.
   3.   Certificate of Registration means the document that may be issued to a
Provider and its unique System that allows Permitting of the Provider and its
unique System.
   4.   City means the City of Oakwood, Ohio.
   5.   City Council means the governing body of the City.
   6.   City Manager means the administrative head of the municipal government
known as the City of Oakwood, Ohio.
   7.   Codified Ordinances means the Codified Ordinances of the City of
Oakwood, Ohio.
   8.   Construct means, but shall not be limited to, to dig, bore, tunnel,
trench, excavate, obstruct, install wires, install conduit, install pipes,
install transmission lines, install poles, install signs, or install
Facilities, other than landscaping or ornamental plantings, in, on, above,
within, over, below, under, or through any part of the Rights-of-Way. Construct
shall also include the act of opening and/or cutting into the surface of any
paved or improved surface that is any part of the Rights-of-Way.
   9.   Construction means, but shall not be limited to, the act or process of
digging, boring, tunneling, trenching, excavating, obstructing, installing
wires, installing conduit, installing pipes, installing transmission lines,
installing poles, installing signs, or installing Facilities, other than
landscaping or ornamental plantings in, on, above, within, over, below, under,
or through any part of the Rights-of-Way. Construction shall also include the
act of opening and/or cutting into the surface of any paved or improved surface
that is part of the Rights-of-Way.
   10.   Construction Bond means a bond posted with the City to ensure proper
and complete Construction, replacement and/or repair of a Facility and/or the
effected Rights-of-Way pursuant to a Permit.
   11.   Construction Cost means the cost of installation, materials,
engineering costs, and other incidental expenses and fees required for the
Construction, repair, or replacement of real and/or personal property or
Facilities effected by Construction in the Rights-of-Way.
   12.   Construction Permit means the Permit as specified in §
951.117 et seq. of the Codified Ordinances which must be obtained before a
Person may Construct in, locate in, occupy, maintain, move, or remove
Facilities from, in, or on a Rights-of-Way excluding work performed pursuant to
a Minor Maintenance Permit.
   13.   Construction and Major Maintenance Plan means a written plan including
maps of the expected location, design, other related equipment and Facilities
of a Provider which describes in full the Construction intended to be
accomplished by the Provider in the Rights-of-Way over the next calendar year.
   14.   County means any County providing sewer and water service within the
City but excludes contractors, agents, or other Persons acting on behalf of
said County.
   15.   Credible means worthy of being believed.
   16.   Department of Public Works means the Department of Public Works of the
City.
   17.   Director of Public Works means the Director of the Department of
Public Works, or his or her designee.
   18.   Emergency means a condition that poses a clear and immediate danger to
life, health or safety of a Person, or of a significant loss of real or
personal property.
   19.   Facilities means any tangible thing located in any Rights-of-Way
within the City; but shall not include boulevard plantings, ornamental
plantings, or gardens planted or maintained in the Rights-of-Way between a
Person's property and the street edge of pavement.
   20.   FCC means the Federal Communications Commission, or any successor
thereto.
   21.   Full means unable to accommodate any additional Facilities: (i.) in
light of applicable standards and using current engineering practices as
determined by the Director of Public Works; or (ii.) without negatively
impacting the public health, safety, and welfare; or (iii.) without violating
any applicable Laws, Rules, or Regulations.
    22.   In, when used in conjunction with Rights-of-Way, means in, on, above,
within, over below, under or through a Right-of-Way.
   23.   Inspector means any Person authorized by the Director of Public Works
to carry out inspections related to the provisions of this Chapter.
   24.   Law(s) means any local, state, or federal legislative, judicial or
administrative order, certificate, decision, statute, constitution, ordinance,
resolution, regulation, rule, tariff, or other requirement in effect either at
the time of execution of this Chapter or at any time during the location of,
and/or while a Provider's Facilities are located in the public Rights-of-Way.
   25.   Minor Maintenance Permit means a permit as specified in Section
951.119 et seq. which must be obtained before a Person can perform minor
maintenance, as set forth in Section
951.119 et seq., in or on the Rights-of-Way.
   26.   Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices means the uniform
system of traffic control devices promulgated by the Ohio Department of
Transportation pursuant to 0. R.C. § 4511.09.
   27.   O.R.C. means the Revised Code of the State of Ohio.
   28.   Ohio Utility Protection Service means the utility protection service
as defined in O.R.C. §§ 153.64 and 3781.26 or their statutory successor.
   29.   Open Video Service means any video programming services provided by a
Person through use of Rights-of-Way, which Provider is certified by the FCC to
operate an Open Video System pursuant to Sections 651 et seq. of the
Telecommunications Act of 1996 (codified at 47 U.S.C. Title VI, Part V),
regardless of the Facilities used.
   30.   Permit means both a Construction Permit and a Minor Maintenance Permit
unless otherwise specified.
   31.   Permit Cost means all direct, incidental, and indirect costs borne by
the City for Permit issuance, Permit oversight and any pavement degradation
resulting from Construction activity.
   32.   Permit Fee means money paid to the City for a Permit to Construct and
or do Minor Maintenance in the Rights-of-Way.
   33.   Permittee means any Person to whom a Construction Permit and or a
Minor Maintenance Permit has been granted by the City and not revoked.
   34.   Person means any natural or corporate person, business association, or
other business entity including, but not limited to, a partnership, a sole
proprietorship, a political subdivision, a public or private agency of any
kind, a utility, a successor or assign of any of the foregoing, or any other
legal entity.
   35.   Provider means a Person who owns or operates a System and has a valid
Certificate of Registration. The City, County, RTA and cable television
operators operating pursuant to a valid cable franchise shall also be
considered Providers.
    36.   PUCO means the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio as defined in
O.R.C. § 4951.02.
   37.   Registration Maintenance Fee means the money paid to the City to
maintain a Registration Certificate and compensate the City for costs
associated with    Rights-of-Way management and administration.
   38.   Removal Bond means a bond posted to ensure the availability of
sufficient funds to properly remove a Provider's Facilities upon abandonment,
disuse, or discontinuance of a Provider's use or occupation of the Rights-of-
Way.
   39.   Restoration means the process and the resultant effects by which a
Rights-of-Way is returned to a condition as good as or better than its
condition immediately prior to Construction. Restoration shall occur in
accordance with the Rules and Regulations established by the Director of Public
Works and as amended from time to time.
   40.   Revocable Street Privileges Permit means the Permit for special
licenses and privileges that must be obtained from the City Manager pursuant to
Codified Ordinance Chapter
901 et seq.
   41.   Right(s)-of-Way means the surface and space in, on, above, within,
over, below, under or through any real property in which the City has an
interest in Law or equity, whether held in fee, or other estate or interest, or
as a trustee for the public, including, but not limited to any public street,
boulevard, road, highway, freeway, lane, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway,
river, tunnel, viaduct, bridge, conduit or any other place, area, or real
property owned by or under the legal or equitable control of the City that,
consistent with the purposes for which it was dedicated, may be used for the
purposes of constructing, operating, repairing or replacing a System. Rights-
of-Way shall not include buildings, parks, or other public property or
easements that have not been dedicated to compatible uses, except to the extent
the use or occupation of such property is specifically granted in a Permit or
approved by Law.
   42.   Right{'{'}s)-of-Way Cost means all direct, incidental and indirect
costs borne by the City for the management, administration and regulation of
the Rights-of-Way and this Chapter.
   43.   RTA means the Miami Valley Regional Transit Authority for purposes of
public transportation.
   44.   Rule(s) and Regulation(s) means any rule and or regulation adopted by
the Director of Public Works.
   45.   Service(s) means the offering of any Service for a fee directly to the
public, or to such classes of users as to be effectively available directly to
the public.
   46.   Supplementary Application means any application made to Construct on
or in more of the Rights-of-Way than previously allowed, or to" extend a Permit
that had already been issued.
    47.   Surety Fund means a formal pledge made to secure against loss,
damage, or default.
   48.   System means any System of conduit, ducts, cables, pipes, wires,
lines, towers, antennae wave guides, optic fiber, microwave, or laser beams,
and any associated converters, equipment, or Facilities or Utilities designed
and constructed for the purpose of producing, receiving, amplifying, delivering
or distributing Service within the City.
   49.   System Representative means the specifically identified agent/employee
of a Provider who is authorized to direct field activities of that Provider and
serve as official notice agent for System related information. Any such System
Representative shall be required to be available at all times to receive notice
of and immediately direct response to System related emergencies or situations.
   50.   Transfer means the disposal by the Provider, directly or indirectly,
by gift, assignment, voluntary sale, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of
fifty- one percent (51%) or more at one time of the ownership or controlling
interest in the System, or cumulatively fifty-one percent (51%), or more, over
the term of a Certificate of Registration of such interests to a corporation,
partnership, limited partnership, trust, or association, or person or group of
persons acting in concert.
   51.   Trenchless Technology means, but shall not be limited to, the use of
directional boring, horizontal drilling, microtunneling and other techniques in
the Construction of underground portions of Facilities which result in the
least amount of disruption and damage to Rights-of-Way as possible.
   52.   Underground Facilities means all lines, cables, conduits, pipes,
posts, tanks, vaults, wires and any other Facilities which are located wholly
or partially underneath Rights-of-Way.
   53.   Unused Facilities means Facilities located in the Rights-of-Way which
have remained unused for a period of twelve (12) months and for which the
Provider is unable to: (i.) provide the City with a Credible plan detailing the
procedure by which the Provider intends to begin actively using such Facilities
within the next twelve (12) months; or (ii.) that it has a potential purchaser
or user of the Facilities who will be actively using the Facilities within the
next twelve (12) months; or (iii.) that the availability of such Facilities is
required by the Provider to adequately and efficiently operate its System.
   54.   Utility(ies) means any water, sewer, gas, drainage, sprinkler, or
culvert pipe and any electric power, telecommunication, signal, communication,
or cable television conduit, fiber, wire, trackless trolley wires, cable, or
operator thereof.
   55.   Working Day means any Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday
excluding legal holidays observed by the City. Business Day shall have the same
meaning as Working Day.
 
951.102 RIGHTS-OF-WAY ADMINISTRATION
   951.102.1   ADMINISTRATION. The City Manager shall be the principal City
official responsible for the administration of this Chapter except as otherwise
provided herein. The City Manager may delegate any or all of the duties
hereunder to the Director of Public Works or other designee.
 
   951.102.2   RIGHTS-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY. Each Person who occupies, uses, or
seeks to occupy or use the Rights-of-Way to operate a System located in the
Rights-of- Way, or who has or seeks to have, a System located in any Rights-of-
Way, shall apply for and obtain a Certificate of Registration pursuant to this
Chapter. Any Person owning, operating or maintaining a System without a
Certificate of Registration, including Persons operating under a Permit,
license or franchise issued by the City prior to the effective date of this
Chapter, shall apply for and obtain a Certificate of Registration from the City
within ninety (90) days of January 1, 2015 unless exempted by Section
951.102.4. Applications will consist of providing the application information
set forth in Section
951.106 et seq. and as reasonably required by the Director of Public Works.
 
   951.102.3   NO CONSTRUCTION WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION. Following
the effective date of this Chapter, no Person shall Construct or perform any
work on or in, or use any System or any part thereof located on or in, any
Rights-of-Way without first obtaining a Certificate of Registration. For the
purposes of this Section only, a Person with a System in place at the time of
the effective date of this Chapter shall not be considered immediately in
violation of this Section, but shall have up to six (6) months from the
effective date of this Chapter to obtain a Certificate of Registration. Whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
 
   951.102.4   EXCEPTIONS. The following entities are not obligated to obtain a
Certificate of Registration: the City; the County; cable television operators
for the limited purpose of providing only cable television service and
operating pursuant to a valid cable television franchise; resellers of Services
that do not own any System or Facilities in the Rights-of-Way; Miami Valley
Regional Transit Authority (RTA) for purposes of public transportation.
 
   951.102.5   SYSTEMS IN PLACE WITHOUT A CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
Beginning one year after the effective date of this Chapter, any System or part
of a System found in a Rights-of-Way for which a Certificate of Registration
has not been obtained shall be deemed to be a nuisance and an unauthorized use
of the Rights-of- Way. The City may exercise any remedies or rights it has,
including, but not limited to abating the nuisance; taking possession of the
Facilities and/or non-complying portion of such System; and/or prosecuting the
violator.
 
   951.102.6   FUTURE USES. In allowing Facilities to be placed in the Rights-
of-Way, the City is not liable for any damages caused thereby to any Provider's
Facilities that are already in place. No Provider is entitled to rely on the
provisions of this Chapter as creating a special duty to any Provider.
 
951.103 DISCONTINUANCE OF OPERATIONS, ABANDONED AND UNUSED FACILITIES
901.103.1   A Provider who has discontinued or is discontinuing operation of
any System or Facility/Facilities in the City shall:
 
   1.   provide information satisfactory to the City that the Provider's
obligations for its System or Facility/Facilities in the Rights-of-Way under
this chapter and any other chapters in the Codified Ordinances or other Laws
have been lawfully assumed by another Applicant and/or Provider; or
   2.   submit a written proposal to re-use its System or Facility/Facilities
in a manner that promotes the City's goals of providing innovative and economic
solutions to efficiently and economically utilize a potentially limited Rights-
of-Way capacity. Said proposal must be approved by the Director of Public
Works; or
   3.   submit a written proposal for abandonment of the System or Facility/
Facilities in place indicating why good engineering practice would support this
type of solution. Said proposal must be approved by the Director of Public
Works; or
   4.   completely remove its entire System or Facility/Facilities within a
reasonable amount of time and in a manner acceptable to the City; or
   5.   submit to the City, in good faith and within a reasonable amount of
time, and in accordance with O.R.C. Sections 4905.20 and 4905.21, a proposal
for transferring ownership of its System or Facility/Facilities to the City. If
a Provider proceeds under this clause, the City may, at its option:
      a.   purchase the Facilities; or
      b.   unless a valid Removal Bond has already been provided pursuant to
951.121.2, require the Provider to post a bond in an amount sufficient to
reimburse the City for its reasonably anticipated costs to be incurred in
removing the Facilities.
For purposes of this section, the City shall not be bound by any private
contract between or among Providers whereby one or more collocated Providers,
who provide Services that materially differ from the Services provided by the
owner of the Facility/Facilities, agree to assume responsibility for or
ownership of another Provider's Facility after the original owner of the
Facility has discontinued its use of the Facility. In such case, the City may
look to the original owner, or any entity into which it has merged or by which
it has been acquired, as the owner of the Facility, and may disregard the terms
of any private contract to which the City is not a party. Without limiting the
foregoing, failure to remove topped utility poles (meaning utility poles that
have been abandoned by the original owner or entity into which it has merged or
by which it has been acquired; cut shorter than their original height; and
which may continue to host one or more collocated Providers whose Facilities
have not been removed from the shortened utility pole) within 120 days after
said utility pole was topped, or after a replacement pole has been installed,
shall be deemed unreasonable, and the City may consider the owner to be in
material default of an obligation under this ordinance.
   951.103.2 Facilities of a Provider who fails to comply with this Section and
which remain Unused Facilities shall be deemed to be abandoned. Abandoned
Facilities are deemed to be a nuisance. The City may exercise any remedies or
rights it has at Law or in equity, including, but not limited to: denial of
permits under this ordinance; abating the nuisance; or taking possession of the
Facilities and restoring them to a useable condition subject to the finding of
the PUCO pursuant to the requirements of O.R.C. Sections 4905.20 and 4905.21;
or requiring removal of the Facilities by the Provider or by the Provider's
surety. If the City determines to require a Provider to remove Unused
Facilities in any Rights-of-Way, the City shall use reasonable efforts to
direct that this removal occur in conjunction with other scheduled excavation
of the Rights-of-Way. If the City abates the nuisance it may take all action
necessary to recover its costs to abate said nuisance, including but not
limited to, those methods set forth in O.R.C. Section 715.261.
 
951.104 NATURE OF ISSUANCE
   A Certificate of Registration shall not convey equitable or legal title in
the Rights-of-Way. A Certificate of Registration is only the nonexclusive,
limited right to occupy Rights-of-Way in the City for the limited purposes and
for the limited period stated in the Certificate of Registration and in
accordance with Codified Ordinances Chapter
951 and any associated Permit. For those Providers with a valid gas or electric
franchise, the provisions of a Certificate of Registration shall be deemed as
regulatory in nature and shall not be interpreted to limit the right to occupy
the Rights-of-Way which may have been granted by such franchise. The rights to
occupy the Right- of-Way itself may not be subdivided or subleased; provided,
however, that two or more Providers may collocate Facilities in the same area
of the Rights-of-Way so long as each such Provider complies with the provisions
of this Chapter. Collocating Providers may file a joint application for a
Construction Permit. A Certificate of Registration does not excuse a Provider
from obtaining appropriate access or pole attachment agreements before
collocating its Facilities on Facilities of others, including the City's
Facilities. A Certificate of Registration does not prevent a Provider from
leasing space in or on the Provider's System, so long as the sharing of
Facilities does not cause a violation of Law, including the provisions of this
Chapter. A Certificate of Registration does not excuse a Provider from
complying with any provisions of this Chapter and other applicable Law.
 
951.105 OTHER APPROVALS, PERMITS AND AGREEMENTS
   In addition to a Certificate of Registration, Providers shall obtain any and
all regulatory approvals, permits, authorizations, or licenses necessary for
the offering or provision of such Services from the appropriate federal, state
and local authorities and upon the City's reasonable request, shall provide
copies of such documents to the City. Further, a Certificate of Registration
issued pursuant to this Chapter shall not entitle a Provider to use, alter,
convert to, or interfere with, the Facilities, easements, poles, conduits,
lines, pipelines, wires, fiber, cable, or any other real or personal property
of any kind whatsoever under the management or control of the City.
951.106 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION APPLICATIONS
   951.106.1   CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION APPLICATIONS.   To obtain a
Certificate of Registration or to obtain a renewal of a Certificate of
Registration issued pursuant to this Chapter, an Application must be filed with
the City on the form adopted by the Department of Public Works which is hereby
incorporated by reference. All Applications shall be accompanied by a Five
Hundred Dollar ($500.00) Application fee which will pay for internal processing
and administrative costs associated with the Application process.
 
   951.106.2   APPLICATION INFORMATION. The Applicant shall keep all of the
information required in this Section current at all times, provided that
Applicant or Provider shall notify the City of any changes to the information
required by § 951.106.2.2 within fifteen (15) days following the date on which
the Applicant or Provider has knowledge of any such change and shall notify the
City of any changes to other information required by § 951.106.2 within thirty
(30) days following the date on which the Applicant or Provider has knowledge
of such change. The information provided to the City at the time of Application
shall include, but not be limited to:
 
   1.   Each Applicant's name, legal status (i.e. partnership, corporation,
etc.), street address, and telephone and facsimile numbers.
   2.   The name, street address, and telephone and facsimile numbers of a
System Representative. The System Representative shall be available at all
times. Current information regarding how to contact the System Representative
in an Emergency shall be provided at the time of Application and shall be
updated as necessary to assure accurate contact information is available to the
City at all times.
   3.   A certificate of insurance provided to meet the requirements of this
Section shall:
      a.   Verify that an insurance policy has been issued to the Applicant by
an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of Ohio;
      b.   Verify that the Applicant is insured on an occurrence basis against
claims for personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property
damage arising out of the: use and occupancy of the Rights-of- Way by the
Applicant, its officers, agents, employees and contractors; and placement and
use of Facilities in the Rights-of-Way by the Applicant, its officers, agents,
employees and contractors, including, but not limited to, protection against
liability arising from any and all operations, damage of Underground
Facilities, explosion, environmental release, and collapse of property;
      c.   Name the City, its elected officials, officers, employees, agents
and volunteers as additional insureds as to whom the comprehensive general
liability and completed operation and products liability insurance required
herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will be provided as to
all such coverages;
      d.   Require that the City be notified thirty (30) days in advance of
cancellation of, or coverage changes in, the policy. The liability insurance
policies required by this Section shall contain the following endorsement: "It
is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be diminished in
value, be canceled, nor the intention not to renew be stated, until thirty (30)
days after receipt by the City, by registered mail, return receipt requested,
of a written notice addressed to the City Manager or her/his designee of such
intent to cancel, diminish, or not to renew." Within thirty (30) days after
receipt by the City of said notice, and in no event later than five (5) days
prior to said cancellation, the Provider (or Applicant) shall obtain and
provide to the City Manager a certificate of insurance evidencing appropriate
replacement insurance policies.
   4.   Satisfy the requirements for comprehensive liability coverage,
automobile liability coverage and umbrella coverage as follows:
      a.   Comprehensive general liability insurance: Comprehensive general
liability insurance to cover liability, bodily injury, and property damage must
be maintained. Coverage must be written on an occurrence basis, with the
following minimum limits of liability and provisions, or their equivalent:
         i.   Bodily injury
            Each occurrence: One Million Dollars($ 1,000,000) Annual aggregate:
Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000)
         ii.   Property damage
            Each occurrence: One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) Annual aggregate:
Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000)
         iii.   Personal Injury
            Annual aggregate: Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000)
      b.   Completed operations and products liability shall be maintained for
six (6) months after the termination of or expiration of a Certificate of
Registration.
      c.   Property damage liability insurance shall include coverage for the
following hazards: E - explosion, C - collapse, U - underground.
   5.   Comprehensive auto liability insurance: Comprehensive auto liability
insurance to cover owned,-hired, and non-owned vehicles must be maintained.
Applicant may maintain comprehensive auto liability insurance as part of
Applicant's comprehensive general liability insurance, however, said insurance
is subject to approval by the City Manager or her or his designee. Coverage
must be written on an occurrence basis, with the following limits of liability
and provisions, or their equivalent:
      a.   Bodily injury
         ach occurrence: One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) Annual aggregate:
Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000)
      b.   Property damage
         Each occurrence: One Million Dollars ($ 1,000,000) Annual aggregate:
Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000)
    6.   Additional insurance: The City reserves the right in unusual or unique
circumstances to require any other insurance coverage it deems reasonably
necessary after review of any proposal submitted by Applicant.
   7.   Self-insurance: Those Applicants maintaining at all times a book value
in excess of Twenty Million Dollars ($20,000,000) may submit a statement
requesting to self-insure. If approval to self-insure is granted, Applicant
shall assure the City that such self-insurance shall provide the City with no
less than would have been afforded to the City by a third party insurer
providing Applicant with the types and amounts of coverage detailed in this
Section. This statement shall include:
      a.   Audited financial statements for the previous year, if requested by
the City;
      b.   A description of the Applicant's self-insurance program; and
      c.   A Listing of any and all actions against or claims made against
Applicant for amounts over One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) or proof of
available excess umbrella liability coverage to satisfy all total current claim
amounts above Twenty Million Dollars ($20,000,000).
   8.   City's examination of, or failure to request or demand, any evidence of
insurance in accordance with this Chapter, shall not constitute a waiver of any
requirement of this Section and the existence of any insurance shall not limit
Applicant's obligations under this Chapter.
   9.   Documentation that Applicant or Provider maintains standard workers'
compensation insurance as required by Law. Similarly, Provider shall require
any subcontractor to provide workers' compensation insurance in amounts
required by Law for all of the subcontractor's employees.
   10.   If the Person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate of
incorporation (or its legal equivalent), as recorded and certified to by the
secretary of state (or legal equivalent) in the state or country in which
incorporated.
   11.   A copy of the Person's certificate of authority (or other acceptable
evidence of authority to operate) from the PUCO and/or the FCC and any other
approvals, permits, or agreements as set out in Section
951.105.
   12.   Upon request of the City, a narrative (or if applicable PUCO/FCC
application information) describing applicant's proposed activities in the City
including Credible information detailing Applicant's financial, managerial, and
technical ability to fulfill Applicant's obligations under this chapter and
carry on Applicant's proposed activities.
 
   951.106.3   CRITERIA FOR ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION. In
deciding whether to issue a Certificate of Registration, the City shall
consider:
   1.   Whether the issuing of the Certificate of Registration will contribute
to the health, safety, and welfare of the City and its citizens.
   2.   Whether issuing of the Certificate of Registration will be consistent
with this Chapter.
   3.   Whether Applicant has submitted a complete Application and has secured
all certificates and other authorizations required by Law in order to Construct
and operate a System in the manner proposed by the Applicant;
   4.   Whether the Applicant is delinquent on any taxes or other obligations
owed to the City or Montgomery County or State of Ohio;
   5.   Whether the Applicant has the requisite financial, managerial, and
technical ability to fulfill all its obligations under this Ordinance and the
issuance of a Certificate of Registration; and
   6.   Any other applicable Law.
 
951.107 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
   951.107.1   REPORTING OBLIGATIONS OF PROVIDERS. At the time of initial
application and by January 1st of each following year, each Provider shall file
a Construction and Major Maintenance Plan with the Department of Public Works.
Such Construction and Major Maintenance Plan shall be provided for all
geographical areas requested by the Director of Public Works, up to and
including the entire geographical area of City. It shall be submitted using a
format(s) mutually agreeable to the Provider and the City and shall contain the
information determined by the Director of Public Works to be necessary to
facilitate the coordination and reduction in the frequency of Construction in
the Rights-of-Way. The Construction and Major Maintenance Plan shall include,
using the Provider's best efforts, but not be limited to, all currently
scheduled and/or anticipated Construction or Major Maintenance projects for the
next calendar year; if none are scheduled or anticipated then the Plan should
so state.
 
951.108 COMPENSATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION
   951.108.1   COMPENSATION. As compensation for the City's costs to administer
this Chapter and the Rights-of-Way and for each Certificate of Registration
issued pursuant to this Chapter, every Provider or any Person operating a
System shall pay to the City Registration Maintenance Fees determined as
follows:
   1.   Providers utilizing equal to or greater than twenty (20) miles of
Right-of-Way within the City shall pay a fee of Two Thousand Dollars per year.
   2.   Providers utilizing less than twenty (20) miles of Right-of-Way within
the City shall pay a fee of One Thousand Dollars per year.
   3.   Cable companies to the extent they are providing only cable television
services and are operating under non-exclusive franchises for the provision of
cable television services and compensating the City under other mechanisms
shall not be required to contribute to the recovery of Rights-of-Way Costs as
defined by this Chapter with the exception of Permit costs.
  
   951.108.2   TIMING. Registration Maintenance Fees shall be paid in advance
by January 1st of each calendar year. Registration Maintenance Fees shall be
paid in full for the first year of the Registration as a condition of the
Certificate of Registration becoming effective. Fees may be prorated from the
effective date of the Certificate of Registration to the end of the calendar
year if less than one (1) full year. Payment of any and all Registration
Maintenance Fees shall be waived until January 1, 2015.
 
   951.108.3   TAXES AND ASSESSMENTS. To the extent taxes or other assessments
are imposed by taxing authorities on the use of City property as a result of a
Provider's use or occupation of the Rights-of-Way, the Provider shall be
responsible for payment of such taxes. Such payments shall be in addition to
any other fees payable pursuant to this Chapter and shall not be considered an
offset to, or in lieu of, the fees and charges listed in this Chapter. The
Registration Maintenance Fee is not in lieu of any tax, fee, or other
assessment except as specifically provided in this Chapter, or as required by
applicable Law. By way of example, and not limitation, Permit Fees and fees to
obtain space on City-owned poles are not waived and remain applicable.
 
   951.108.4   INTEREST ON LATE PAYMENTS. In the event that any Registration
Maintenance Fee is not paid to the City by January 31, a monthly late charge of
one percent (1 %) of the unpaid balance shall be paid by the Provider for each
month or any portion thereof for which payment is not made.
 
   951.108.5   NO ACCORD AND SATISFACTION. No acceptance by the City of any
Registration Maintenance Fee shall be construed as an accord that the amount
paid is in fact the correct amount, nor shall such acceptance of such
Registration Maintenance Fee payment be construed as a release of any claim the
City may have for additional sums payable.
 
   951.108.6   COSTS OF PUBLICATION. A Provider shall assume publication costs
of up to One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) associated with its Certificate of
Registration that may be required by Law.
 
951.109 OVERSIGHT AND REGULATION
   951.109.1   REPORTS. Upon reasonable request of the Director of Public
Works, a Provider shall provide the City with a list of any and all material
communications, public reports, petitions, or other filings, either received
from or submitted to any municipal, county, state or federal agency or official
(and any response thereto submitted by or received by a Provider), and any
other information or report reasonably related to a Provider's obligations
under this Chapter which in any way materially effects the operation of the
System or a Provider's representations and warranties set forth herein, but not
including tax returns or other filings which are confidential. Upon request, a
Provider shall promptly, but in no case later than fifteen (15) business days
following the request, deliver to the City a complete copy of any item on said
list. Upon the request of the City, a Provider shall promptly submit to the
City any information or report reasonably related to a Provider's obligations
under this Chapter, its business and operations with respect to the System or
its operation, in such form and containing such information as the City shall
specify. Such information or report shall be accurate and complete and supplied
within fifteen (15) days.
 
   951.109.2   CONFIDENTIALITY. All information submitted to the City that is
considered trade secret and/or proprietary information must be clearly marked
as such when submitted. The City shall exercise all reasonable protection so as
not to publicly disclose to any third party proprietary information unless
required by Law.
 
   951.109.3   PROVIDER'S EXPENSE. All reports and records required under this
Chapter shall be furnished at the sole expense of a Provider, except as
otherwise provided in this Chapter.
 
   951.109.4   RIGHT OF INSPECTION AND AUDIT. The City's designated
representatives shall have the right to inspect, examine, or audit during
normal business hours and upon reasonable notice to a Provider under the
circumstances, all documents, records, or other information which pertain to a
Provider and its operation of a System or its obligation under this ordinance.
All such documents shall be made available within the City or in such other
place that the City may agree upon in writing in order to facilitate said
inspection, examination, or audit provided, however, that if such documents are
located outside of the City, then a Provider shall pay the reasonable expenses
incurred by the City's designated representatives in traveling to such
location. Provider shall also reimburse the City for at least fifty percent
(50%) of the total cost incurred by the City for utilizing a third party to
assist with or conduct an investigation or audit.
 
951.110 REGISTRATION TERM
   The term of each Certificate of Registration granted or any renewal thereof
under this Chapter shall be for five (5) years.
951.111 INDEMNITY
   Each Certificate of Registration issued under this Chapter shall be under
the conditions and contain provisions whereby Providers agree to defend,
indemnify and hold City and its agents, officers, elected officials, employees,
volunteers, and contractors harmless from and against all damages, costs,
losses, or expenses: (i) for the repair, replacement, or restoration of City's
property, equipment, materials, structures and Facilities which are damaged,
destroyed, or found to be defective as a result of such Provider's acts or
omissions; and (ii) from and against any and all claims, demands, suits, causes
of action, and judgments for: (a) damage to or loss of the property of any
Person (including, but not limited to such Provider, its agents, officers,
employees and subcontractors, City's agents, officers, elected officials,
employees, volunteers, contractors and third parties); and/or (b) death, bodily
injury, illness, disease, worker's compensation, loss of Services, or loss of
income or wages to any Person (including but not limited to the agents,
officers and employees of such Provider, Provider' s subcontractors, the City,
and third parties), arising out of, incident to, concerning or resulting from
the act or omissions of such Provider, its agents, employees, and/or
subcontractors, in the performance of activities pursuant to such Certificate
of Registration, no matter how, or to whom, such loss may occur. In any event,
all persons using or occupying the Rights-of-Way agree to defend, indemnify,
and hold the City harmless as set forth above as a condition of their use or
occupancy of the Rights-of-Way. Excepting negligent acts or omissions that are
willful and wanton or intentional torts and for which immunity is not provided
by the O.R.C. for such acts, omissions, or intentional torts. This exception
shall not extend to acts, omissions, or intentional torts occurring as a result
of or in response to an Emergency.
 
951.112  LIQUIDATED DAMAGES
   In addition to any other penalties set forth in this Chapter, and the remedy
of specific performance which may be enforced in a court of competent
jurisdiction, the Director of Public Works may assess an additional penalty of
civil forfeiture for failure to comply with any provision of this Chapter. Said
penalty shall be a monetary sum, payable to the City, in the amount of Five
Hundred Dollars ($500.00) per twenty-four (24) hour day of violation and any
subsequent portion of a day less than twenty four (24) hours in length. Prior
to assessing said penalty, the Director of Public Works shall provide written
notice to the Provider detailing the failure to comply with a specific
provision of this Chapter. Said notice shall indicate that said penalty shall
be assessed in fifteen (15) calendar days after service of the notice if
compliance is not achieved. If a Provider desires to challenge said penalty,
Provider shall request a hearing before the City Manager within ten (10) days
of service of the notice. Said hearing shall be held within thirty (30) days of
the Provider's request. If Provider requests such hearing before the City
Manager, said penalty shall be temporarily suspended. However, if, after the
hearing, the City Manager determines that Provider failed to comply with the
specific provision of this Chapter referenced in the notice, said penalty shall
be assessed starting fifteen (15) calendar days after service of the notice
referenced in this Section and continuing for each day thereafter until
compliance is achieved. The determination of the City Manager shall be final.
951.113 TERMINATION OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION
   
901.113.1   The Director of Public Works shall give written notice of default
to a Provider if it is determined that a Provider has:
   1.   Violated any material provision or requirement of the issuance or
acceptance of a Certificate of Registration or any Law of the City, state, or
federal government; or
   2.   Attempted to evade any provision or requirement of the issuance of a
Certificate of Registration or the acceptance of it; or
   3.   Practiced any fraud or deceit upon the City; or
   4.   Made a material misrepresentation of fact in its Application for a
Certificate of Registration.
   951.113.2   If a Provider fails to cure a default within thirty (30)
calendar days after such notice is served by the City then such default shall
be a material breach and City may exercise any remedies or rights it has at Law
or in equity to terminate the Certificate of Registration. If the Director of
Public Works decides there is cause or reason to terminate, the following
procedure shall be followed:
   1.   City shall serve a Provider with a written notice of the reason or
cause for proposed termination and shall allow a Provider a minimum of ten (10)
calendar days to cure its breach.
   2.   If the Provider fails to cure within ten (10) calendar days, the
Director of Public Works may declare the Certificate of Registration
terminated.
    3.   The Provider shall have ten (10) calendar days to appeal the
termination to the City Manager. All such appeals shall be in writing. If the
City Manager determines there was not a breach, then the City Manager shall
overturn the decision of the Director of Public Works. Otherwise, the City
Manager shall affirm the decision of the Director of Public Works to terminate.
The determination of the City Manager shall be final.
 
951.114 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
   951.114.1   No Person Shall use the Rights-of-Way to operate a System that
has not been authorized by the City in accordance with the terms of this
Chapter and been issued a Certificate of Registration.
 
   951.114.2   No Provider shall place or have placed any Facilities in, on,
above, within, over, below, under, or through the Rights-of-Way, unless allowed
under this Chapter or having been issued a Certificate of Registration.
 
   951.114.3   Each and every unauthorized use shall be deemed to be a
violation and a distinct and separate offense. Each and every day any violation
of this Chapter continues shall constitute a distinct and separate offense.
 
   951.114.4   No Person shall fail to comply with the provisions of this
Chapter. Each and every failure to comply shall be deemed a distinct and
separate offense. Each and every day any violation of this Chapter continues
shall constitute a distinct and separate offense.
 
   951.114.5   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be
guilty of a second degree misdemeanor. Lack of intent shall not be a defense.
 
951.115 PEG REQUIREMENTS FOR OPEN VIDEO SYSTEMS
   Any Provider that receives a certificate from the FCC to provide Open Video
Services in the City shall notify the City of such certification. Any Provider
that operates an Open Video System shall comply with all applicable Laws and
FCC Rules and Regulations including those regarding support for public,
educational, and governmental access ("PEG").
951.116 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP AND RENEWAL
   951.116.1   TRANSFER APPROVAL REQUIRED. A Certificate of Registration shall
not be assigned or transferred, either in whole or in part, without requesting,
through the City Manager, the consent of the City. Any request for assignment
or transfer shall include a completed copy of any application documents
required by the PUCO or FCC for such an assignment or transfer. If the City
should object to such assignment or transfer, it shall serve the Provider with
notice of the objection within thirty (30) days following receipt of the
Provider's request. If no objection is served upon the Provider within thirty
(30) days of the City's receipt of the initial assignment or transfer request,
the City shall be deemed to have consented to the requested assignment or
transfer by operation of Law.
 
   951.116.2   CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION AND ASSIGNEE/ TRANSFEREE SIGNATURE
REQUIRED. In no event shall a transfer or assignment of ownership or control be
ultimately acceptable to the City without transferee or assignee requesting and
being issued a replacement Certificate of Registration with ninety (90) days of
transfer or assignment.
   951.116.3   RENEWAL OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
A Provider shall request renewal of a Certificate of Registration in writing at
least six (6) months prior to the expiration of its term but not more than
twelve (12) months prior to expiration. A Provider shall furnish information as
required under Section  951.06 . Unless otherwise extended by the City, the
City shall act on the request before the expiration of the Certificate of
Registration.
951.117 CONSTRUCTION PERMITS
   951.117.1   CONSTRUCTION PERMIT REQUIREMENT.   Except as otherwise provided
in the Codified Ordinances, no Person may Construct in any Rights-of-Way
without first having obtained a Construction Permit as set forth in this
Chapter. This requirement shall be in addition to any requirement set forth. in
Codified Ordinances Chapter 901 et seq.
   1.   A Construction Permit allows the Permittee to Construct in the
specified portion of the Rights-of-Way as described in the Construction Permit
while placing Facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration
specified therein. The Construction Permit allows the Permittee, if necessary,
to obstruct travel in the Rights-of-Way, pursuant to City approved traffic
control measures and as may be specified in the Permit.
   2.   Unless otherwise approved in writing by the Director of Public Works, a
Construction Permit is valid for six (6) months from date of issuance for the
area of Rights-of-Way specified in the Permit.
   3.   No Permittee may Construct in the Rights-of-Way beyond the date or
dates specified in the Construction Permit unless such Permittee:
      (a)   makes a Supplementary Application for another Construction Permit
before the expiration of the initial Construction Permit; and
      (b)   is granted a new Construction Permit or Construction Permit
extension.
   4.   Original Construction Permits issued under this Chapter shall, when
possible, be conspicuously displayed at all times at the indicated work site
and be available for inspection by Inspectors and authorized City personnel. If
the original Construction Permit is not conspicuously displayed at the
indicated work site or the project involves work conducted simultaneously at
multiple locations, then upon request, the Construction Permit must be produced
within twelve (12) hours or the first earliest Business Hour, whichever is
later. For purposes of this Chapter, Business Hour shall mean the hours between
8 a.m. and 5 p.m. during a Business Day.
 
   951.117.2   CONSTRUCTION   PERMIT APPLICATIONS.   Application    for a
Construction Permit shall be made to the Director of the Department of Public
Works. In addition to any information required by the Director of Public Works,
all Construction Permit Applications shall contain, and will only be considered
complete upon compliance with the following provisions:
   1.   Credible evidence that the Applicant has been issued a Certificate of
Registration or proof that the Applicant has written authority to apply for a
Construction Permit on behalf of a party that has a then valid Certificate of
Registration;
   2.   Submission of a completed Construction Permit Application in the form
required by the Director of Public Works, including, but not limited to, all
required attachments, and scaled, dated drawings showing the location and area
of the proposed project, number and location of street cuts, and the location
of all existing and proposed Facilities, accompanied by the certification of a
registered professional engineer, or other trained technical personnel
acceptable to the Director of Public Works, that the drawings, plans and
specifications submitted with the Application comply with applicable technical
codes, rules and regulations.
   3.   A City approved traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed, consistent with the Ohio Manual of
Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to Persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic.
   4.   If Applicant is proposing an above ground installation on existing
poles within the Rights-of-Way, the applicant shall provide Credible
information satisfactory to the City to sufficiently detail and identify:
      a.   the size and height of the existing poles; and
      b.   based on the facilities currently on the existing poles, the excess
capacity currently available on such poles before installation of Applicant's
Facilities; and
      c.   based on the facilities currently on the existing poles, the excess
capacity for like or similar Facilities that will exist on such poles after
installation of Applicant's Facilities; and
   5.   If the Applicant proposes to install new poles within the Rights-of-
Way, the Applicant shall provide:
      a.   Credible evidence satisfactory to the City that there is no excess
capacity on existing poles or in existing underground systems; and
      b.   Credible evidence that it is not financially and/or technically
practicable for the Applicant to make an underground installation or locate its
facilities on existing poles; and
      c.   the location, size, height, color, and material of the proposed
poles;
      d.   Credible evidence satisfactory   to the City that the Applicant will
adhere to all the applicable Laws concerning the installation of new poles; and
      e.   if the proposal involves the transfer of the Applicant's Facilities
from an existing pole to a new pole, Credible evidence satisfactory to the City
that the Applicant has coordinated in advance with all collocated Providers
having Facilities on the existing pole, and that the transfer of all Facilities
(collocated or otherwise) to the new pole and the complete removal of the
existing pole will be completed within 120 days after installation of the new
pole.
   6.   If Applicant is proposing an underground installation in existing ducts
or conduits within the Rights-of-Way, the Applicant shall provide Credible
information satisfactory to the City to sufficiently detail and identify:
      a.   based on the existing facilities, the excess capacity for like or
similar facilities currently available in such ducts or conduits before
installation of Applicant's Facilities; and
      b.   based on existing facilities, the excess capacity for like or
similar facilities that will exist in such ducts or conduits after installation
of Applicant's Facilities.
   7.   If Applicant is proposing an underground installation within new ducts
or conduits to be constructed within the Rights-of-Way, the Applicant must
provide Credible information satisfactory to the City to sufficiently detail
and identify:
      a.   the location, depth, size, and quantity of proposed new ducts or
conduits; and
      b.   the excess capacity for like or similar equipment that will exist in
such ducts or conduits after installation of Applicant's Facilities.
   8.   A preliminary Construction schedule and completion date.
   9.   Payment of all money due to the City for:
      a.   Permit fees;
      b.   any loss, damage, or expense suffered by the City as a result of
Applicant's prior Construction in the Rights-of-Way or any Emergency actions
taken by the City; and
      c.   any Certificate of Registration issued to the ApplicanUPerson whose
Facilities are being Constructed; and
      d.   any other money due to the City from the ApplicanUPerson whose
Facilities are being Constructed.
   10.   When a Construction Permit is requested for purposes of installing
additional Systems or any part of a System, the posting of a Construction Bond
and Removal Bond, acceptable to the City and subject to Section
951.121 of this Chapter for the additional Systems or any part of a System is
required.
   951.117.3   ISSUANCE OF CONSTRUCTION PERMIT: CONDITIONS.
   1.   If the Director of Public Works determines that the Applicant has
satisfied the requirements of this Chapter and the Construction Permit process,
the Director of Public Works shall issue a Construction Permit subject to the
provisions of this Chapter.
   2.   The City may impose reasonable conditions upon the issuance of the
Construction Permit and the performance of the Permittee thereunder in order to
protect the public health, safety and welfare, to insure the structural
integrity of the Rights-of-Way, to protect the property and safety of other
users of the Rights-of-Way, and to minimize the disruption and inconvenience to
the traveling public.
   901.117.4 CONSTRUCTION PERMIT FEES. The Director of Public Works shall
develop and maintain a schedule of Permit Fees based on fair and reasonable
criteria. The Director of Public Works shall conduct a study of degradation to
and reduction in the useful life of the Rights-of-Way resulting from
Construction. After such study is completed and after providing notice to
Providers with a valid Certificate of Registration, the Director of Public
Works may include in the schedule of Permit Fees an amount sufficient to
recover the degradation and reduction in the useful life of the Rights-of-Way
that will result from the Construction to take place thereon. "Degradation and
the reduction in the useful life" for the purpose of this Section means the
accelerated depreciation of the Rights-of-Way caused by Construction in or
disturbance of the Rights-of-Way, resulting in the need to reconstruct or
repair such Rights-of-Way earlier than would be required if the Construction
did not occur. No Construction Permit shall be issued without payment of
Construction Permit Fees except to the City, County, or RTA which shall be
exempt. Construction Permit Fees that were paid for a Permit that the City has
revoked due to breach are not refundable.
   951.117.5 JOINT APPLICATIONS. Applicants are encouraged to make joint
Application for Construction Permits to work in the Rights-of-Way at the same
place and time. Joint Applicants shall have the ability to divide amongst
themselves, in proportions the parties find appropriate, any applicable
Construction Permit Fees.
 
951.118 CONSTRUCTION, RELOCATION AND RESTORATION
   951.118.1   TECHNICAL INFORMATION REQUIRED. Prior to commencement of any
initial Construction of Facilities in the Rights-of-Way, except for repair,
maintenance or replacement with like Facilities only, a Construction Permittee
shall provide technical information about the proposed route of Construction.
The technical information required shall consist of, at minimum, completion of
the following tasks:
   1.   Secure all available "as-built" plans, plats, and other location data
indicating the existence and approximate location of all Facilities along the
proposed Construction route.
   2.   Visibly survey and record the location and dimensions of any Facilities
along the proposed Construction route, including, but not limited to, manholes,
valve boxes, utility boxes, posts, and visible street cut repairs.
    3.   Determine and record the presence and precise location of all
Underground Facilities the Applicant or Person on whose behalf the Permit was
applied for owns or controls in the Rights-of-Way along the proposed System
route. Upon request of the Director of Public Works, a Permittee shall also
record and identify the general location of all other Facilities in the Rights-
of-Way along the proposed System route. For the purposes of this Section,
general location shall mean the alignment of other Facilities in the Rights-of-
Way, but shall not necessarily mean the depth of other Facilities in the
Rights-of-Way.
   4.   Plot and incorporate the data obtained from completion of the tasks
described in this section on the Permittee's proposed System route maps,
Construction plans, plan sheets, and computer aided drafting and design (GADD)
files, or other data files in a mutually agreeable format compatible with that
used by the City.
   5.   Where the proposed location of Facilities and the location of existing
Underground Facilities appear to conflict with the plans as drafted,
Construction Permittee has the option of either utilizing non-destructive
digging methods, such as vacuum excavation, at the critical points identified
to determine as precisely as possible, the horizontal, vertical and spatial
position, composition, size and other specifications of the conflicting
Underground Facilities, or re-designing the Construction plans to eliminate the
apparent conflict. A Construction Permittee shall not excavate more than a
three (3) foot by three (3) foot square hole in the Rights-of-Way in order to
make this determination to complete this task.
   6.   Plot, incorporate, and reconcile the data obtained by completion of the
tasks described in subsection 951.118.1.5 with the updated System route maps,
Construction plans and GADD files or other data files in a mutually agreeable
format as described in subsection 951.118.1.4.
   7.   Based on the data collected upon completion of the tasks described in
this Section, adjust the proposed System design.
 
   951.118.2   COPY TO CITY. Upon completion of the tasks described in Section
951.118.1, the Construction Permittee shall plot and incorporate the data on
the Construction Permittee's proposed System route maps, Construction plans,
plan sheets, and GADD files, or other data files in a mutually agreeable format
and deliver a copy to the Department of Public Works.
 
   951.118.3   QUALIFIED FIRM. All technical information gathered pursuant to
this Section shall be performed by a firm specializing in utility engineering
that is approved by the City or such studies may be performed by the
Construction Permittee, at the discretion of the Director of Public Works, and
if the Construction Permittee is qualified to complete the project itself.
 
   951.118.4   COST OF SUPPLYING TECHNICAL INFORMATION. The Construction
Permittee shall bear the cost of compliance with Sections 951.118.1 through
951.118.3 of this Chapter.
 
   951.118.5   CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE. Unless otherwise provided for in this
Chapter, or unless the Director of Public Works waives any of the requirements
of this Section due to unique or unusual circumstances, a Construction
Permittee shall be required to: submit a written Construction schedule to the
City ten (10) Working Days before commencing any work in or about the Rights-
of-Way and, shall further notify the City not less than two (2) Working Days in
advance of any excavation in the Rights-of- Way. This Section shall apply to
all situations with the exception of circumstances under Section
951.119 (Minor Maintenance Situations) and Section 951.120.4.1 (Emergency
Situations).
   951.118.6 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   1.   The placement of new Facilities and replacement of old Facilities,
either above ground or underground, shall be completed in conformity with
applicable Laws.
   2.   The City shall have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new
or additional Facilities within the Rights-of-Way if the Right-of-Way is Full.
In making such decisions, the City shall strive to the extent possible to
accommodate all existing and potential users of the Rights-of-Way, but shall be
guided primarily by considerations of the public health, safety, and welfare,
the condition of the Rights-of-Way, the time of year with respect to essential
Utilities, the protection of existing Facilities in the Rights- of-Way, future
City and County plans for public improvements, development projects which have
been determined to be in the public interest, and the non-discriminatory and
competitively neutral treatment of providers.
   3.   Should it be determined by the City that any existing poles in the
Rights- of-Way are Full, then those poles may be replaced with bigger and/or
taller poles in order to accommodate additional Facilities or Systems but only
after written permission has been received from the Director of Public Works
and the Construction Permittee has made reasonable attempts to reach an
acceptable solution without replacement with bigger and/or taller poles. This
paragraph shall not apply to replacement of any existing pole(s) with
identically sized pole(s) which results from the destruction of or hazardous
condition of the existing pole(s) as long as no new Facilities or additional
Facilities are attached.
   951.118.7   LEAST DISRUPTIVE TECHNOLOGY. All Construction or maintenance of
Facilities shall be accomplished in the manner resulting in the least amount of
damage and disruption of the Rights-of-Way. In addition, all cable, wire or
fiber optic cable installed in the subsurface Rights-of-Way under this Chapter
may be required to be installed in conduit, and if so required, no cable, wire
or fiber optic cable may be installed under this Chapter using "direct bury"
techniques.
   951.118.8   RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   1.   A Provider shall promptly and at its own expense, permanently remove
and relocate its Facilities in the Rights-of-Way whenever the City finds it
necessary to request such removal and relocation. In instances where the City
requests removal and/or relocation, the City shall waive all applicable
Construction Permit Fees. Upon removal and/or relocation, the Provider shall
restore the Rights-of-Way to the same or better condition it was in prior to
said removal or relocation. If existing poles are required to be removed and/or
relocated, then the existing poles will be replaced with poles of the same or
similar size unless waived in writing by the Director of Public Works. The
Director of Public Works may request relocation and/or removal in order to
prevent unreasonable interference by the Provider's Facilities with:
      a.   A public improvement undertaken or approved by the City or County;
      b.   When the public health, safety, and welfare requires it, or when
necessary to prevent interference with the safety and convenience of ordinary
travel over the Rights-of-Way.
   2.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Provider who has Facilities in the
Right- of-Way subject to a vacation or narrowing that is not required for the
purposes of the City, shall have a permanent easement in such vacated portion
or excess portion in conformity with O.R.C. §723.04.01.
   3.   If, in the reasonable judgment of the City, a Provider fails to
commence the removal process and/or relocation of its Facilities as designated
by the City, within thirty (30) days after the City's removal order is served
upon Provider, or if a Provider fails to substantially complete such removal,
including all associated repair of the Rights-of-Way of the City, within twelve
(12) months thereafter, then, to the extent not inconsistent with applicable
Law, the City shall have the right to:
      a.   Declare that all rights, title and interest to the Facilities belong
to the City with all rights of ownership, including, but not limited to, the
right to connect and use the Facilities or to effect a transfer of all right,
title and interest in the Facilities to another Person for operation; or
      b.   Authorize removal of the Facilities installed by the Provider in,
on, over or under the Rights-of-Way of the City at Provider's cost and expense,
by another Person, however the City shall have no liability for any damage
caused by such action and the Provider shall be liable to the City for all
reasonable costs incurred by the City in such action; and
      c.   To the extent consistent with applicable Law, any portion of the
Provider's Facilities in, on, over or under the Rights-of-Way of the City
designated by the City for removal and not timely removed by the Provider shall
belong to and become the property of the City without payment to the Provider,
and the Provider shall execute and deliver such documents, as the City shall
request, in form and substance acceptable to the City, to evidence such
ownership by the City.
   951.118.9   PRE-EXCAVATION FACILITIES LOCATION.   Before the start date of
any Rights-of-Way excavation, each Provider who has Facilities located in the
area to be excavated shall be responsible to mark the horizontal and make every
reasonable attempt to mark the approximate vertical placement of all its
Facilities. All Providers shall notify and work closely with the excavation
contractor in an effort to establish the exact location of its Facilities and
the best procedure for excavation.
   951.118.10   RIGHTS-OF-WAY RESTORATION.
   1.   The work to be done under the Permit, and the Restoration of the
Rights- of-Way as required herein, must be completed within the dates specified
in the Permit. In addition to its own work, the Permittee must restore the
general area of the work, and the surrounding areas, including trench backfill,
paving and its foundations in accordance with any applicable Laws and the
standards established by the Director of Public Works, and must inspect the
area of the work and use reasonable care to maintain the same condition for
twelve (12) months thereafter.
   2.   In approving an Application for a Permit, the City may choose either to
have the Permittee restore the Rights-of-Way or the City may restore the
Rights-of-Way itself.
   3.   If the City chooses to allow Permittee to restore the Rights-of-Way,
Construction Permittee shall at the time of Application of a Construction
Permit post a Construction Bond in an amount determined by the City to be
sufficient to cover the cost of restoring the Rights-of-Way to its pre-
excavation condition. If, twelve (12) months after completion of the
Restoration of the Rights-of-Way, the City determines that the Rights-of-Way
have been properly restored, the surety on the Construction Bond shall be
released.
   4.   The Permittee shall perform the work according to the standards and
with the materials specified by the City. The City shall have the authority to
prescribe the manner and extent of the Restoration, and may do so in written
procedures of general application or on a case-by-case basis. The City in
exercising this authority shall be guided by the following standards and
considerations: the number, size, depth and duration of the excavations,
disruptions or damage to the Rights-of-Way; the traffic volume carried by the
Rights-of-Way; the character of the neighborhood surrounding the Rights-of-Way;
the pre-excavation condition of the Rights-of-Way; the remaining life-
expectancy of the Rights-of-Way effected by the excavation; whether the
relative cost of the method of Restoration to the Permittee is in reasonable
balance with the prevention of an accelerated depreciation of the Rights-of-Way
that would otherwise result from the excavation, disturbance or damage to the
Rights-of-Way; and the likelihood that the particular method of Restoration
would be effective in slowing the depreciation of the Rights-of-Way that would
otherwise take place. Methods of Restoration shall be according to the Rules,
Regulations, and standards established by the Director of Public Works or any
other Laws.
   5.   By restoring the Rights-of-Way itself, the Permittee guarantees its
work and shall maintain it for twelve (12) months following its completion.
During this twelve (12) month period, it shall, upon notification from the
Department of Public Works, correct all Restoration work to the extent
necessary using the method required by the Department of Public Works. Weather
permitting, said work shall be completed within five (5) Business Days of the
receipt of the notice from the Department of Public Works.
   6.   If the Permittee fails to restore the Rights-of-Way in the manner and
to the condition required by the City, or fails to satisfactorily and timely
complete all repairs required by the City, the City, at its option, may do such
work. In that event, the Permittee shall pay to the City, within thirty (30)
days of billing, the cost of restoring the Rights-of-Way and any other costs
incurred by the City. Upon Failure to pay, the City may call upon any bond or
letter of credit posted by Permittee and/or pursue any and all legal and
equitable remedies.
   951.118.11   DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   1.   In the case of an Emergency and, if possible, after reasonable efforts
to contact the Provider seeking a timely response, when the City performs work
in the Rights-of-Way and finds it necessary to maintain, support, or move a
Provider's Facilities to protect those Facilities, the costs associated
therewith will be billed to that Provider and shall be paid within thirty (30)
days from the date of billing. Upon failure to pay, the City may pursue all
legal and equitable remedies in the event a Provider does not pay or the City
may call upon any bond or letter of credit posted by Permittee and pursue any
and all legal or equitable remedies.
   2.   Each Provider shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any
Facilities in the Rights-of-Way which it or its Facilities damage. Each
Provider shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any damage1to the
Facilities of another Provider caused during the City's response to an
Emergency caused by that Provider's Facilities.
   951.118.12   RIGHTS-OF-WAY VACATION. If the City vacates a Right-of-Way
which contains the Facilities of a Provider, such vacation shall be subject to
the provisions of O.R.C. § 723.04.1. If the vacation requires the relocation of
the Provider's Facilities and if the vacation proceedings are initiated by the
Provider, the Provider will pay the relocation costs. If the vacation requires
the relocation of the Provider's Facilities and if the vacation proceedings are
initiated by the City for a public purpose, the Provider or Permittee must pay
the relocation costs unless otherwise agreed to by the City, the Provider or
Permittee.
 
   951.118.13   INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS. The excavation, backfilling,
Restoration, and all other work performed in the Rights-of-Way shall be
performed in conformance with all applicable Laws and the standards as
promulgated by the Director of Public Works.
   951.118.14   INSPECTION.
   1.   When the Construction under any Permit hereunder is completed, the
Permittee shall notify the Department of Public Works.
   2.   The Permittee shall make the Construction site available to the
Inspector and to all others as authorized by Law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the execution and upon completion of the Construction.
   3.   At any time, including the time of inspection, the Inspector may order
the immediate cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the health,
safety, or welfare of the public, violates any Law, or which violates the terms
and conditions of the Permit and/or this Chapter.
   4.   The Inspector may issue an order to correct work which does not conform
to the Permit and/or applicable standards, conditions or codes. The order shall
state that failure to correct the violation will be cause for revocation of the
Permit. The order may be served on the Permittee as provided in Section
951.123.4. An order may be appealed to the Director of Public Works. The
decision of the Director of Public Works may be appealed to the City Manager
whose decision shall be final. If not appealed, within ten (10) days after
issuance of the order, the Provider shall present proof to the Director of
Public Works that the violation has been corrected. If such proof has not been
presented within the required time, the Director of Public Works may revoke the
Permit pursuant to Section 951.120.3.
   951.118.15   OTHER OBLIGATIONS. Obtaining a Construction Permit does not
relieve Permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary Permits, licenses,
and authority and to pay all fees required by the City, or any other city,
county, state, or federal Laws.
   1.   A Permittee shall comply with all requirements of Laws, including the
requirements of the Ohio Utility Protection Service.
   2.   A Permittee shall perform all work in conformance with all applicable
Laws and standards and is responsible for all work done in the Rights- of-Way
pursuant to its Permit, regardless of who performs the work.
   3.   No Rights-of-Way obstruction or excavation may be performed when
seasonally prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work, except
in the case of an Emergency as outlined in Section 951.120.4.1.
   4.   A Permittee shall not so obstruct a Rights-of-Way that the natural free
and clear passage of water through the gutters or other waterways shall be
interfered with.
   5.   Private vehicles other than necessary Construction vehicles may not be
parked within or adjacent to a Permit area. The loading or unloading of trucks
adjacent to a Permit area is prohibited unless specifically authorized by the
Permit.
 
   951.118.16   UNDERGROUNDING REQUIRED. Any owner of property abutting upon a
street or alley where Service Facilities are located underground and where the
Service connection is at the property line, shall install or cause others to
install underground any Service delivery infrastructure from the property line
to the buildings or other structures on such property to which such Service is
supplied.
 
951.119 MINOR MAINTENANCE PERMITS
   951.119.1   MINOR MAINTENANCE PERMIT REQUIREMENT. No Person shall perform
Minor Maintenance of Facilities in the Rights-of-Way without first having
obtained a Minor Maintenance Permit as set forth in this Chapter. Minor
Maintenance means: (i.) the routine repair or replacement of Facilities with
like Facilities not involving Construction and not requiring traffic control
for more than thirty (30) minutes at any one location; or (ii.) Construction on
thoroughfares and arterials between the hours of 9:00AM and 3:00PM that does
not impede traffic and does not involve a street, pavement, curb, or sidewalk
cut without first contacting the Director of Public Works; or (iii.)
Construction other than on thoroughfares and arterials that takes less than
eight (8) contiguous hours to complete, does not impede traffic, and does not
involve a pavement, street, curb, or sidewalk cut without first contacting the
Director of Public Works.
   1.   A Minor Maintenance Permit allows the Minor Maintenance Permittee to
perform all minor maintenance in any part of the Rights-of-Way as required.
   2.   A Minor Maintenance Permits is valid from the date of issuance until
December 31 of the year in which the Minor Maintenance Permit was issued at
which time the Minor Maintenance Permit shall expire.
   3.   A Minor Maintenance Permit must be displayed or upon request, the Minor
Maintenance Permit must be produced within twelve (12) hours or the first
earliest Business Hour, whichever is later. For purposes of this Chapter,
Business Hour shall mean the hours between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. during a Business
Day.
   4.   A Minor Maintenance Permit by itself shall under no circumstances
provide a Permittee with the authority to cut street, pavement, curb, or
sidewalk without first seeking and receiving approval from the Director of the
Department of Public Works.
 
   951.119.2   MINOR MAINTENANCE PERMIT APPLICATIONS.   Application for a Minor
Maintenance Permit shall be made to the Director of the Department of Public
Works. In addition to any information required by the Director of Public Works,
all Minor Maintenance Permit Applications shall contain, and will only be
considered complete upon compliance with the following provisions:
   1.   Credible evidence that the Applicant has obtained a Certificate of
Registration or proof that the Applicant has written authority to apply for a
Minor Maintenance Permit on behalf of a party that has been issued a
Certificate of Registration;
   2.   Submission of a completed Minor Maintenance Permit Application in the
form required by the Director of Public Works.
   3.   A statement that the Applicant will employ protective measures and
devices that, consistent with the Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices, will prevent injury or damage to Persons or property and to minimize
disruptions to the efficient movement of pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   951.119.3   ISSUANCE OF MINOR MAINTENANCE PERMITS: CONDITIONS.
   1.   If the Director of Public Works determines that the Applicant has
satisfied the requirements of this Chapter and the Minor Maintenance Permit
process, the Director of Public Works shall issue a Minor Maintenance Permit
subject to the provisions of this Chapter.
   2.   The City may impose reasonable conditions upon the issuance of the
Minor Maintenance Permit and the performance of the Minor Maintenance Permittee
thereunder in order to protect the public health, safety and welfare, to insure
the structural integrity of the Rights-of-Way, to protect the property and
safety of other users of the Rights-of-Way, and to minimize the disruption and
inconvenience to the traveling public.
   951.119.4   MINOR MAINTENANCE PERMIT FEES. The Director of Public Works may
charge a fee for the issuance of the Minor Maintenance Permit.   No Minor
Maintenance Permit shall be issued without payment of Minor Maintenance Permit
Fees except to the City, County, or RTA which shall be exempt. Minor
Maintenance Permit Fees that were paid for a Minor Maintenance Permit that the
City has revoked due to breach are not refundable. The Director of Public Works
may revoke the Minor Maintenance Permit as any other Permit may be revoked
under this Chapter.
 
951.120 ENFORCEMENT OF PERMIT OBLIGATION
   951.120.1   MANDATORY DENIAL OF PERMIT. Except in the case of an Emergency,
no Construction Permit or Minor Maintenance Permit will be granted:
   1.   To any Person who has not yet made an Application; or
   2.   To any Person or their agent who has outstanding debt or other
obligation under this ordinance owed to the City; or
   3.   To any Person or their agent as to whom there exists grounds for the
revocation of a Permit; or
   4.   If, in the discretion of the Director of Public Works, the issuance of
a Permit for the particular date and/or time would cause a conflict or
interfere with an exhibition, celebration, festival, or any other event. The
Director of Public Works, in exercising this discretion, shall be guided by the
safety and convenience of ordinary travel of the public over the Rights-of-Way,
and by considerations relating to the public health, safety, and welfare.
 
   951.120.2   PERMISSIVE DENIAL. The Director of Public Works may deny a
Permit in order to protect the public health, safety, and welfare, to prevent
interference with the safety and convenience of ordinary travel over the
Rights-of-Way, or when necessary to protect the Rights-of-Way and its users.
The Director of Public Works, in his or her discretion, may consider one or
more of the following factors: the extent to which Rights- of-Way space where
the Permit is sought is available; the competing demands for the particular
space in the Rights-of-Way; the availability of other locations in the Rights-
of- Way or in other Rights-of-Way for the proposed Facilities; the
applicability of this Chapter or other regulations of the Rights-of-Way that
effect location of Facilities in the Rights-of-Way; the degree of compliance of
the Provider with the terms and conditions of this Chapter and its
requirements, and other applicable ordinances and regulations; the degree of
disruption to surrounding communities and businesses that will result from the
use of that part of the Rights-of-Way; the condition and age of the Rights-of-
Way, and whether and when it is scheduled for total or partial re-construction;
the balancing of the costs of disruption to the public and damage to the
Rights-of-Way, against the benefits to that part of the public served by the
expansion into additional parts of the Rights-of-Way; and whether such
Applicant or their agent has failed within the past three (3) years to comply,
or is presently not in full compliance, with the requirements of this Chapter
or, if applicable, any other Chapters of the Codified Ordinances, or any other
applicable Law.
 
   951.120.3   DISCRETIONARY ISSUANCE. Notwithstanding the provIsIons of
Section's 951.120.1.1 and 951.120.1.2, the Director of Public Works may issue a
Permit in any case where the Permit is necessary: (a) to prevent substantial
economic hardship to a customer of the Permit applicant if established by
Credible evidence satisfactory to the City; (b) to allow such customer to
materially improve its Service; or (c)   to allow a new economic development
project. To be granted a Permit under this Section, the Permit Applicant must
not have had knowledge of the hardship, the plans for improvement of Service,
or the development project at the time it was required to submit its list of
next year projects.
   951.120.4   WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   1.   Emergency Situations. Each Provider shall immediately notify the
Director of Public Works of any event regarding its Facilities which it
considers to be an Emergency. The Provider may proceed to take whatever actions
are necessary in order to respond to the Emergency. Within two (2) business
days, unless otherwise extended by the Director of Public Works, after the
occurrence or discovery of the Emergency (whichever is later), the Provider
shall apply for the necessary Permits, pay the fees associated therewith and
fulfill all the requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with
this Chapter for any and all actions taken in response to the Emergency.
   In the event that the City becomes aware of an Emergency regarding a
Provider's Facilities, the City may attempt to contact the Provider or System
Representative of each Provider effected, or potentially effected, by the
Emergency. In any event, the City may take whatever action it deems necessary
in order to respond to the Emergency, the cost of which shall be borne by the
Provider whose Facilities caused the Emergency.
   2.   Non-Emergency Situations. Except in the case of an Emergency, any
Provider who Constructs in, on, above, within, over, below or through a Right-
of-Way without a valid Permit shall subsequently obtain a Permit, pay double
the normal fee for said Permit, pay double all the other fees required by the
Codified Ordinances, deposit with the City the fees necessary to correct any
damage to the Rights-of-Way and comply with all of the requirements of this
Chapter.
   951.120.5   REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   1.   Permittees hold Permits issued pursuant to the Codified Ordinances as a
privilege and not as a right. The City reserves the right, as provided herein,
to revoke any Permit, without refunding any fees, in the event of a substantial
breach of the terms and conditions of any Law or any provision or condition of
the Permit. A substantial breach by Permittee shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following:
      a.   The violation of any provision or condition of the Permit; or
      b.   An evasion or attempt to evade any provision or condition of the
Permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit upon
the City or its citizens; or
      c.   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the Application for a
Permit; or
       d.   The Failure to obtain and/or maintain required Construction or
Removal Bonds and/or insurance; or
      e.   The failure to obtain and/or maintain, when required, a Certificate
of Registration; or
      f.   The failure to complete Construction in a timely manner; or
       g.   The failure to correct any nonconformity as ordered pursuant to
Section 951.118.15.
   2.   If the Director of Public Works determines that the Permittee has
committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any Law or any
provision or condition of the Permit, the Director of Public Works shall serve
a written demand upon the Permittee to remedy such violation. The demand shall
state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the Permit.
Upon, a substantial breach, as stated above, the Director of Public Works, may
place additional or revised conditions on the Permit.
   3.   By the close of the next business day following receipt of notification
of the breach, Permittee shall contact the Director of Public Works with a
plan, acceptable to the Director of Public Works, for its correction.
Permittee's failure to so contact the Director of Public Works, or the
Permittee's failure to submit an acceptable plan, or Permittee's failure to
reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be cause for immediate revocation
of the Permit.
   4.   From time to time, the Director of Public Works may establish a list of
standard conditions for the Permit. A substantial breach of any condition shall
also constitute an unauthorized use of the public Rights-of-Way as defined in
Section 
951.114 .
   5.   If a Permittee, commits a second substantial breach as outlined above,
Permittee's Permit will automatically be revoked and not be allowed further
Permits for one full year, except for Emergency repairs.
   6.   If a Permit is revoked, the Permittee shall also reimburse the City for
the City's reasonable costs, including Restoration costs and the costs of
collection and reasonable attorneys' fees incurred in connection with such
revocation.
951.121 CONSTRUCTION AND REMOVAL BONDS
   951.121.1   CONSTRUCTION BOND. Prior to the commencement of any
Construction, a Construction Permittee, excluding the County, City, or RTA
shall deposit with the Director of Public Works an irrevocable, unconditional
letter of credit and/or surety bond in an amount determined by the Director of
Public Works to be appropriate, based upon fair and reasonable criteria. Unless
a Construction default, problem, or deficiency involves an Emergency or
endangers the safety of the general public, the Director of Public Works shall
serve the Construction Permittee with notice detailing any Construction
default, problem, or deficiency. If the Director of Public Works determines
that correction or repair of the Construction default, problem or deficiency
has not occurred or has not been substantially initiated within ten (10)
calendar days after the date following service of notification and detailing
the construction default, problem or deficiency, then the City may attach the
letter of credit or surety bond. Upon attachment, written notice shall be
served on the Construction Permittee by the Director of Public Works.
 
   951.121.2   REMOVAL BOND. Upon issuance of a Certificate of Registration,
and continuously thereafter until One Hundred Twenty (120) days after a
Provider's Facilities have been removed from the Rights-of-Way, (unless the
Director of Public Works notifies the Provider that a reasonably longer period
shall apply), a Provider shall deposit with the Director of Public Works and
maintain an irrevocable, unconditional letter of credit or a surety bond in an
amount equal to or greater than Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00). The
Director of Public Works shall make all reasonable effort to allow Provider a
period of five (5) Business Days after serving notification to correct or
repair any default, problem or deficiency prior to Director of Public Works'
attachment of letter of credit or surety bond regarding the removal of
Facilities. Upon attachment, written notice shall be provided to the Provider
by the Director of Public Works.
 
   951.121.3   BLANKET BOND. In lieu of the Construction Bond required by
Section 951.121.1 and the Removal Bond required by Section 951.121.2, Provider
may deposit with the Director of Public Works an irrevocable, unconditional
letter of credit and/or surety bond in the amount of Five Million Dollars
($5,000,000.00).   Unless a Construction default, problem or deficiency
involves an Emergency or endangers the safety of the general public, the
Director of Public Works shall make all reasonable effort to allow Permittee a
period of five (5) Business Days after sending notification in writing to the
last known business address to correct or repair any Construction default,
problem or deficiency prior to Director of Public Works' attachment of letter
of credit or surety bond. Upon attachment, written notice shall be provided to
the Provider by the Director of Public Works.
 
   951.121.4   SELF BONDING. In lieu of the Construction Bond required by
Section 951.121.1, the Removal Bond required by Section 951.121.2 and the
Blanket Bond required by Section 951.121.3, those Providers maintaining at all
times a book value in excess of Twenty Million Dollars ($20,000,000) may submit
a statement to the Director of Public Works requesting to self-bond. If
approval to self-bond is granted, a Provider shall assure the City that such
self-bonding shall provide the City with no less protection and security than
would have been afforded to the City by a third party surety providing Provider
with the types and amounts bonds detailed in the above named Sections. This
statement shall include:
   a.   Audited financial statements for the previous year, if requested by the
City; and,
   b.   A description of the Applicant's self-bonding program; and,
   c.   Other applicable and pertinent information as reasonably requested by
the Director of Public Works.
 
   951.121.5   PURPOSES. The bonds required by this Section, and any self
bonding to the extent it has been permitted, shall serve as security for:
   1.   The faithful performance by the Permittee or Provider of all terms,
conditions and obligations of this Chapter;
   2.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the City occasioned by the
Permittee or Provider's violation of this Chapter or its failure to comply with
all Rules, Regulations, orders, Permits and other directives of the City issued
pursuant to this Chapter;
   3.   The payment of all compensation due to the City, including Permit Fees;
    4.   The payment of premiums for the liability insurance required pursuant
to this Chapter;
   5.   The removal of Facilities from the Rights-of-Way pursuant to this
Chapter;
   6.   The payment to the City of any amounts for which the Permittee or
Provider is liable that are not paid by it's insurance or other surety; and
   7.   The payment of any other amounts which become due to the City pursuant
to this Chapter or other Law.
 
   951.121.6   FORM. The bond documents required by this Section, and any
replacement bond documents shall, contain the following endorsement: "It is
hereby understood and agreed that this bond may not be canceled or not renewed
by the surety nor the intention to cancel or not to renew be stated by the
surety until ninety (90) days after completion of Construction of the
Facilities and, notwithstanding the foregoing, shall in no case be canceled or
not renewed by the surety without ninety (90) days advance written notice to
the City of surety's intention to cancel or not renew this bond."
 
951.122 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY
   951.122.1   CITY DOES NOT ACCEPT LIABILITY. By reason of the acceptance of
an Application or the grant of a Permit, the City does not assume any
liability:
 
   1.   For injuries to Persons, damage to property, or loss of Service claims;
or
   2.   For claims or penalties of any sort resulting from the installation,
presence, maintenance, or operation of Facilities.
 
   951.122.2   INDEMNIFICATION. By applying for and being issued a Certificate
of Registration with the City a Provider agrees, or by accepting a Permit a
Permittee is required and agrees, to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the
City's agents, elected officials, officers, employees, volunteers and
subcontractors from all costs, liabilities, claims, and suits for damages of
any kind arising out of the Construction, presence, installation, maintenance,
repair or operation of its Facilities, or out of any activity undertaken in or
near a Rights-of-Way, whether any act or omission complained of is authorized,
allowed, or prohibited by a Permit. Excepting negligent acts or omissions that
are willful and wanton or intentional torts and for which immunity is not
provided by the O.R.C. for such acts, omissions, or intentional torts. This
exception shall not extend to acts, omissions, or intentional torts occurring
as a result of or in response to an Emergency. A Provider or Permittee further
agrees that it will not bring, nor cause to be brought, any action, suit or
other proceeding claiming damages, or seeking any other relief against the
City's agents, elected officials, officers, employees, volunteers and
subcontractors for any claim nor for any award arising out of the presence,
installation, maintenance or operation of its Facilities, or any activity
undertaken in or near a Rights- of-Way, whether the act or omission complained
of is authorized, allowed or prohibited by a Permit. This Section is not, as to
third parties, a waiver of any defense or immunity otherwise available to the
Provider, Permittee, or to the City; and the Provider or Permittee, in
defending any action on behalf of the City, if allowable by Law, shall be
entitled to assert in any action every defense or immunity that the City could
assert in its own behalf. Any and all exercise of the above shall be consistent
with, but not limited to, the following:
   1.   To the fullest extent permitted by Law, all Providers and Permittees
shall, at their sole cost and expense, fully indemnify, defend and hold
harmless the City, its agents, elected officials, officers, employees,
volunteers and subcontractors from and against any and all lawsuits, claims
(including without limitation worker's compensation claims against the City or
others), causes of actions, actions, liability, and judgments for injury or
damages including but not limited to expenses for reasonable legal fees and
disbursements assumed by the City in connection therewith:
      a.   To persons or property, in any way arising out of or through the
acts or omissions of Provider, its subcontractors, agents or employees
attributable to the occupation by the Provider or Permittee of the Rights-of-
Way, to which Permittee's or Provider's negligence shall in any way contribute,
and regardless of whether the City's negligence or the negligence of any other
party shall have contributed to such claim, cause of action, judgment, injury
or damage.
      b.   Arising out of any claim for invasion of the right of privacy, for
defamation of person, firm or corporation, or the violation or infringement of
any copyright, trademark, trade name, service mark or patent or any other right
of any person, firm and corporation by the Provider or Permittee, but excluding
claims arising out of or related to City programming.
      c.   Arising out of Provider's or Permittee's failure to comply with the
provisions of any Law applicable to Provider or Permittee in its business
hereunder.
   2.   The foregoing indemnification is conditioned upon the City:
      a.   Giving Provider or Permittee reasonable notice of any claim or the
commencement of any action, suit or proceeding for which indemnification is
sought;
      b.   Affording the Provider or Permittee the opportunity to participate
in any compromise, settlement, or other resolution or disposition of any claim
or proceeding subject to indemnification; and
      c.   Cooperating in the defense of such claim and making available to the
Provider or Permittee all pertinent information under the City's control.
   3.   The City shall have the right to employ separate counsel in any such
action or proceeding and to participate in the investigation and defense
thereof, and the Provider or Permittee shall pay all reasonable fees and
expense of such separate counsel if employed.
 
951.123 GENERAL PROVISIONS
   951.123.1   NON-EXCLUSIVE REMEDY. The remedies provided in this Chapter are
not exclusive or in lieu of other rights and remedies that the City may have.
The City is hereby authorized at any time to seek legal and equitable relief
for actual or threatened injury to the Rights-of-Way, including damages to the
Rights-of-Way, whether caused by a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter or other provisions of applicable Law.
 
   951.123.2   SEVERABILITY. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase, or portion of this Chapter is for any reason held invalid or
unconstitutional by any court or administrative agency of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions thereof. If a regulatory body or a court of competent jurisdiction
should determine by a final, nonappealable order that any Permit, right or any
portions of this Chapter are illegal or unenforceable, then any such Permit or
right granted or deemed to exist hereunder shall be considered as a revocable
Permit with a mutual right in either party to terminate without cause upon
giving sixty (60) days written notice to the other. The requirements and
conditions of such a revocable Permit shall be the same requirements and
conditions as set forth in the Permit, right or registration, respectively,
except for conditions relating to the term of the Permit and the right of
termination. If a Permit or right shall be considered a revocable Permit as
provided herein, the Permittee must acknowledge the authority of the City to
issue such revocable Permit and the power to revoke it.
 
   951.123.3   RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS. The City by the
granting of a Permit, or by issuing a Certificate of Registration under this
Chapter, does not surrender or to any extent lose, waive, impair, or lessen the
lawful powers and rights, which it has now or may be hereafter vested in the
City under the Constitution and Laws of the United States, State of Ohio, and
under the Charter of the City of Oakwood to regulate the use of the Rights-of-
Way. The Permittee by its acceptance of a Permit, or Provider by applying for
and being issued a Certificate of Registration, agrees that all lawful powers
and rights, regulatory power, or police power, or otherwise as are or the same
may be from time to time vested in or reserved to the City, shall be in full
force and effect and subject to the exercise thereof by the City at any time. A
Permittee or Provider is deemed to acknowledge that its rights are subject to
the regulatory and police powers of the City to adopt and enforce general
ordinances necessary to the safety and welfare of the public and is deemed to
agree to comply with all applicable general Laws enacted by the City pursuant
to such powers.
 
   951.123.4   METHOD OF SERVICE. Any notice or order of the Director of Public
Works or City Manager shall be deemed to be properly served if a copy thereof
is:
 
      1.   Delivered personally; or
      2.   Successfully transmitted via facsimile transmission to the last
known fax number of the Person to be served; or
      3.   Left at the usual place of business of the Person to whom it is to
be served upon and with someone who is 18 years of age or older; or
       4.   Sent by certified, preposted U.S. mail to the last known address;
or
      5.   If the notice is attempted to be served by certified, preposted U.S.
mail and then returned showing that the letter was not delivered, or the
certified letter is not returned within fourteen (14) days after the date of
mailing, then notice may be sent by regular, preposted, first-class U.S.; or
      6.   If the notice is attempted to be served by regular, first class U.S.
mail, postage prepaid, and the letter is then returned showing that the letter
was not delivered, or is not returned within fourteen (14) days after the date
of mailing, then notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about the
structure, building, premises or property effected by such notice.
 
   951.123.5   APPLIES TO ALL PROVIDERS. This Chapter shall apply to all
Providers and all Permittees unless expressly exempted.
 
   951.123.6   POLICE POWERS. All Person's rights are subject to the police
powers of the City to adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to protect the
health, safety, and welfare of the public. All Persons shall comply with all
applicable Laws enacted by City pursuant to its police or other powers. In
particular, all Persons shall comply with City zoning and other land use
requirements pertaining to the placement and specifications of Facilities.
 
   901.123.7 COMPLIANCE. No Person shall be relieved of its obligation to
comply with any of the provisions of this Chapter by reason of any failure of
City to enforce prompt compliance.
 
   951.123.8   CHOICE OF LAW AND FORUM. This Chapter and the terms and
conditions of any Certificate of Registration or Permit shall be construed and
enforced in accordance with the substantive Laws of the State of Ohio. All
Providers and Permittees as a condition for the grant of any Permit or issuance
of any Certificate of Registration agree that all disputes shall be resolved in
a court of competent jurisdiction in Montgomery County, Ohio or as otherwise
agreed to in writing by the City.
 
   951.123.9   FORCE MAJEURE. In the event any Person's performance of any of
the terms, conditions, or obligations required by this Chapter
951 is prevented by a cause or event not within such Person's control, such
inability to perform shall be deemed excused and no penalties or sanctions
shall be imposed as a result thereof. For the purpose of this Section, causes
or events not within the control of a Provider shall include, without
limitation, acts of God, strikes, sabotage, riots or civil disturbances,
explosions, acts of public enemies, and natural disasters such as floods,
earthquakes, landslides, and fires.
 
   951.123.10   NO WARRANTY. The City makes no representation or warranty
regarding its right to authorize the Construction of Facilities on any
particular Rights-of- Way. The burden and responsibility for making such
determination shall be upon the Person constructing Facilities in the Rights-
of-Way.
 
   951.123.11   CONTINUING OBLIGATION AND HOLDOVER. In the event a Provider
continues to operate all or any part of the Facilities after the term of a
Certificate of Registration, such Provider shall continue to comply with all
applicable provisions of this Chapter and other Laws throughout the period of
such continued operation, provided that any such continued operation shall in
no way be construed as a renewal or other extension of the Certificate of
Registration, nor as a limitation on the remedies, if any, available to the
City as a result of such continued operation after the term, including, but not
limited to, damages and restitution. Any conflict between the issuance of a
Certificate of Registration or of a Permit and any other present or future
lawful exercise of the City's regulatory or police powers shall be resolved in
favor of the latter.
 
   951.123.12   APPEALS. All appeals provided for by this chapter and any
notification to the City required by this Chapter shall be in writing and sent
via certified mail to the City Manager or Director of Public Works as specified
in this Chapter.
 
   901.123.13 CITY STANDARDS. As part of City required standards wherever
Rights- of-Way are under Construction, if deemed advisable and practicable by
the Director of Public Works, the City may install all such Facilities deemed
necessary to accommodate future Provider needs. Any such installed Facilities
shall be City property and may be conveyed to any Person under such terms and
conditions as are deemed advisable by the City Manager.
 
   951.123.14 CHAPTER HEADINGS. Chapter headings are for convenience only and
shall not be used to interpret any portion of this Chapter.
 
 
Legislative History: Ord. 4877, adopted 11/4/2019; Ord. 4793, adopted 11/3/14.
 
 
CHAPTER 955
Small Cell Facilities and Wireless Support Structures
955.01   Purpose and Intent
955.02   Definitions
955.03   Applicability
955.04   Procedures
955.05   Standards
955.06   Nonconformity
955.07   Conflict with Other Provisions
955.08   Severability
955.99    Penalties
 
Cross reference: ORC §4939.01 et seq.
 
 
955.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this Chapter is to establish general procedures and standards
for the siting, construction, placement, collocation, modification, operation,
and removal of small cell facilities and/or wireless support structures within
the city of Oakwood.
   The goals of this chapter are to:
   A.   Provide standards for the siting, construction, placement, collocation,
modification, operation, and removal of small cell facilities and wireless
support structures within the city of Oakwood.
   B.   Establish criteria for making application to promote fair and efficient
processing of applications.
   C.   Ensure that small cell facilities and wireless support structures
conform to all applicable health and safety regulations.
   D.   Preserve the character of the City's neighborhoods by limiting the
overall number of facilities within the City's Right-of-Way.
   E.   Reduce visual clutter and preserve and enhance the aesthetic
environment of the city of Oakwood.
   F.   Ensure the safety of motorists, pedestrians, and other users of the
City's Rights-of-Way by limiting the placement and overall number of facilities
within close proximity to roadways, sidewalks, or other such ways of travel.
   G.   Establish a fair and reasonable method to recover costs incurred in
administering this Chapter.
955.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Within this Chapter, words with specific defined meanings are as follows:
Abandoned
Any small cell facilities or wireless support structures that are unused for a
period of three hundred sixty-five days without the operator otherwise
notifying the City and receiving the City's approval.
 
Agent
A person that provides the City written authorization to work on behalf of a
public utility.
Antenna
Communications equipment that transmits or receives radio frequency signals in
the provision of wireless service.
Applicant
Any person that submits an application to the City to site, construct, place,
collocate, modify, operate, and/or remove a small cell facility or wireless
support structure in the city of Oakwood.
Collocation, collocate
To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or replace wireless facilities on
a wireless support structure or utility pole.
Cable operator, cable service, franchise
These words have the same meanings as in the "Cable Communications Policy Act
of 1984," 98 Stat. 2779, 47 U.S.C.A. 522.
Decorative pole
A pole, arch, or structure other than a street light pole placed in the Right-
of-Way specifically designed and placed for aesthetic purposes and on which no
appurtenances or attachments have been placed except for any of the following:
   A.   Electric lighting;
   B.   Specially designed informational or directional signage;
   C.   Temporary holiday or special event attachments.
Enclosure
A cabinet for equipment intended to conceal its contents, prevent electrical
shock to users, and protect the contents from the environment.
Equipment
Electrical and/or mechanical devices or components.
Historic District
A building, property, or site, or group of buildings, properties, or sites that
are either of the following:
   A.   Listed in the national register of historic places or formally
determined eligible for listing by the keeper of the national register, the
individual who has been delegated the authority by the federal agency to list
properties and determine their eligibility for the national register, in
accordance with section VI.D.1.a.i-v of the nationwide programmatic agreement
codified at 47 C.F.R. part 1, Appendix C;
   B.   A registered historic district as defined in Section 149.311 of the
Ohio Revised Code.
Municipal Electric Utility
The same meaning as in section 4928.01 of the Ohio Revised Code.
 
Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices, OMUTCD
The uniform system of traffic control devices promulgated by the department of
transportation pursuant to Section 4511.09 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Occupy, Use
With respect to a Right-of-Way, to place a tangible thing in a Right-of-Way for
any purpose, including, but not limited to, constructing, repairing,
positioning, maintaining, or operating lines, poles, pipes, conduits, ducts,
equipment, or other structures, appurtenances, or facilities necessary for the
delivery of public utility services or any services provided by a cable
operator.
Permittee
A person issued a permit.
Person
Any natural person, corporation, or partnership and also includes any
governmental entity.
Public Utility
A wireless service provider as defined in division (A)(20) of section 4927.01
of the Ohio Revised Code or any company described in section 4905.03 of the
Ohio Revised Code except in divisions (B) and (I) of that section, which
company also is a public utility as defined in section 4905.02 of the Ohio
Revised Code; and includes any electric supplier as defined in section 4933.81
of the Ohio Revised Code.
Public Way Fee
A fee levied to recover the costs incurred by the City and associated with the
occupancy or use of a Right-of-Way.
Right-of-Way, Public Way
The surface of, and the space within, through, on, across, above, or below, any
public street, public road, public highway, public freeway, public lane, public
path, public alley, public court, public sidewalk, public boulevard, public
parkway, public drive, public easement, and any other land dedicated or
otherwise designated for a compatible public use, which, on or after July 2,
2002, is owned or controlled by a municipal corporation. "Right-of-Way"
excludes a private easement.
Small Cell Facility
A wireless facility that meets both of the following requirements:
   A.   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of not more than 6 cubic
feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements, the
antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an enclosure of not
more than 6 cubic feet in volume.
   B.   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility is
cumulatively not more than 28 cubic feet in volume. The calculation of
equipment volume shall not include electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, grounding equipment, power transfer
switches, cut-off switches, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power
and other services.
 
Small Cell Facility Operator, Operator
A wireless service provider, or its designated agent, or cable operator, or its
designated agent, that operates a small cell facility and provides wireless
service as defined in division (T) of section 4939.01 of the Ohio Revised Code.
For the purpose of this chapter, "operator" includes a wireless service
provider or cable operator that provides information services as defined in the
"Telecommunications Act of 1996," 110 Stat. 59, 47 U.S.C.153(20), and services
that are fixed in nature or use unlicensed spectrum.
Substantial Change
Substantial change means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.40001
(b )(7), as may be amended, and as applicable to facilities in the public
Right-of-Way, which defines that term as a collocation or modification that:
   A.   increases the overall height more than 10% or 10 feet (whichever is
greater);
   B.   increases the width more than 6 feet from the edge of the wireless
support structure;
   C.   involves the placement of any new enclosures on the ground when there
are no existing ground-mounted enclosures;
   D.   involves the placement of any new ground-mounted enclosures that are
ten percent (10%) larger in height or volume than any existing ground-mounted
enclosures;
   E.   involves excavation or deployment of equipment outside the area in
proximity to the installation and other wireless communications equipment
already deployed on the ground;
   F.   would defeat the existing concealment elements of the wireless support
structure as determined by the Director of Public Works or his designee; or
   G.   violates a prior condition of approval, provided however that the
collocation need not comply with any prior condition of approval related to
height, width, enclosures or excavation that is inconsistent with the
thresholds for a substantial change.
   Note: For clarity, the definition in this Chapter includes only the
definition of a substantial change as it applies to installations in the public
Right-of-Way. The thresholds for a substantial change outlined above are
disjunctive. The failure to meet any one or more of the applicable thresholds
means that a substantial change would occur. The thresholds for height
increases are cumulative limits. For sites with horizontally separated
deployments, the cumulative limit is measured from the originally-permitted
wireless support structure without regard to any increases in size due to
wireless facilities not included in the original design. For sites with
vertically separated deployments, the cumulative limit is measured from the
permitted site dimensions as they existed on February 22, 2012.
Utility Easement
An easement dedicated for the use of a Public Utilities Commission of Ohio
regulated utility.
Utility pole
A structure that is designed for, or used for the purpose of, carrying lines,
cables, or wires for electric distribution or telecommunications service. The
term excludes street signs and decorative poles.
Wireless Facility
Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications between user
equipment and a communications network, including all of the following:
   A.   Equipment associated with wireless communications;
   B.   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and
backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological
configuration.
   C.   The term includes small cell facilities.
   D.   The term does not include any of the following:
      1.   The structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated;
      2.   Coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is between wireless support
structures or utility poles or that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with a particular antenna.
Wireless Service
Any services using licensed or unlicensed wireless spectrum, whether at a fixed
location or mobile, provided to the public using wireless facilities.
Wireless Service Provider
A person who provides wireless service as defined in division (A)(20) of
section 4927.01 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Wireless Support Structure
A pole, such as a monopole, either guyed or self-supporting, street light pole,
traffic signal pole, a 15' or taller sign pole, or utility pole capable of
supporting wireless small cell facilities. As used in section 4939.031 of the
Ohio Revised Code this chapter, "wireless support structure" excludes all of
the following:
   A.   A utility pole or other facility owned or operated by a municipal
electric utility;
   B.   A utility pole or other facility used to supply traction power to
public transit systems, including railways, trams, streetcars, and
trolleybuses.
Permit, Work permit
A permit issued by the City that must be obtained in order to perform any work
in, on, above, within, over, below, under, or through any part of the Right-of-
Way, including, but not limited to, the act or process of digging, boring,
tunneling, trenching, excavating, obstructing, or installing, as well as the
act of opening and cutting into the surface of any paved or improved surface
that is part of the Right-of-Way. Also, a permit issued by the City that must
be obtained in order to occupy the City's Right-of-Way.
955.03 APPLICABILITY.
   No small cell facility operator may collocate or remove a small cell
facility or construct, maintain, modify, operate, replace, or remove wireless
support structures in, along, across, upon, and/or under the Right-of-Way
except in conformance with all provisions of this Chapter and any other
applicable requirements of the city of Oakwood.
 
955.04 PROCEDURES.
   955.04.1 - Permit Required
 
Unless otherwise exempted, it shall be unlawful for any person to collocate or
remove a small cell facility or construct, maintain, modify, operate, replace,
or remove wireless support structures in, along, across, upon, and/or under the
Right-of-Way unless a permit has been issued by the Director of Public Works or
his designee.
 
   955.04.2 - Application Requirements
This section specifies the necessary requirements for a complete permit
application. A complete application shall consist of the following:
   A.   Application Fee - The applicant must provide the applicable permit
application fee in the amount currently required by the City Manager and listed
in the city's permit fee schedule.
   B.   RF Compliance Affidavit - Applicants must submit a sworn affidavit
prepared and signed by an RF engineer with knowledge about the proposed project
that affirms the proposed project will be compliant with all applicable
governmental regulations in connection with human exposure to radiofrequency
emissions. The affidavit must include:
      1.   All frequencies on which the equipment will operate;
      2.   how many channels will be used on each frequency;
      3.   the effective radiated power ("ERP")
      4.   output level in measured watts; and
      5.   the height above ground for the lowest point on the lowest
transmitter.
      The required disclosures above must be included for all transmitters on
the support structure, which includes without limitation existing collocated
antennas and antennas used for wireless backhaul (such as microwave dish
antenna or U/E relay).
   C.   Regulatory Authorization - To the extent that the applicant claims any
regulatory authorization or other right to use the public Right-of-Way, the
applicant must provide a true and correct copy of the Gertificate, license,
notice to proceed or other regulatory authorization that supports the
applicant's claim.
   D.   Owner's Authorization - Applicants must submit evidence sufficient to
show that either:
      1.   the applicant owns the proposed support structure or
      2.   the applicant has obtained the owner's authorization to file the
application.
   E.   Site Plans and Structural Calculations. The applicant must submit fully
dimensioned site plans, elevation drawings and structural calculations
prepared, sealed, stamped and signed by a Professional Engineer licensed and
registered by the State of Ohio. Drawings must depict any existing wireless
facilities with all existing wireless communications equipment and other
improvements, the proposed facility with all proposed wireless communications
equipment and other improvements and the legal boundaries of the leased or
owned area surrounding the proposed facility and any associated access or
utility easements.
   F.   Equipment and Enclosure Specifications. The applicant shall provide
dimensioned elevations, cut sheets, material samples or other construction
documents necessary to evaluate for compliance with this Chapter.
    G.   Statement of Intent.   The applicant shall provide a statement of a
wireless support structure's intended purpose.
   
   955.04.3 Application Type
 
   A.   Each application to collocate or remove a small cell facility or
construct, maintain, modify, operate, replace, or remove wireless support
structures in, along, across, upon, and/or under the Right-of-Way shall be
classified as one of three types. The three types of applications are:
      1.   Small Cell Minor - An application that:
         a.   Involves removal or replacement of small cell facilities and any
associated equipment on an existing wireless support structure; and such
removal or replacement does not constitute a substantial change; or
         b.   Involves the routine maintenance of a small cell facility.
      2.   Small Cell Substantial - An application that:
         a.   Involves the installation of a new small cell facility on a
wireless support structure; or
         b.   Involves the removal or replacement of a small cell facility on
an existing wireless support structure and such removal or replacement
constitutes a substantial change.
      3.   Wireless Support Structure - An application for a proposal to
construct, modify or replace a wireless support structure in the Right-of-Way.
 
   B.   Applications seeking to collocate a small cell facility to a wireless
support structure owned by the City and located within the City Right-of-Way
shall also be required to obtain an Attachment Certificate and shall be subject
to an attachment fee in an amount set by the City Manager and set forth in the
City's permit fee schedule.
 
   955.04.4 Decisions
   A.   The Director of Public Works or his designee shall review the
application for conformance with the standards of this Chapter and shall
either:
      1.   approve, approve with conditions, or deny a Small Cell Minor
application; or
      2.   grant or deny consent for Small Cell Substantial and Wireless
Support Structure applications.
 
   B.   If a request is denied, the reasons for denial shall be provided in
writing to the applicant.
 
   C.   The City reserves the right to deny an application if any one of the
following conditions exist:
      1.   The application does not comply with a provision of this Chapter or
a provision of the City of Oakwood Codified Ordinances;
      2.   The applicant is not authorized to conduct business in the State of
Ohio;
      3.   The applicant is not current in its obligation to pay to the City
fees or taxes imposed by this Chapter;
       4.   The design or location is deemed unsafe or non-compliant in regards
to transportation and engineering standards for construction within the Right-
of- Way;
      5.    The design is counter to the health, safety, and welfare of the
City;
      6.   The design or location is in conflict with current or proposed
accessibility standards;
      7.   The design does not meet standards related to electrical,
structural, safety or construction best practices.
      8.   The proposed design is in conflict with existing infrastructure,
facilities, and/or utilities.
 
   D.   Except as allowed in subsection (E) below, applications shall be
reviewed and a decision rendered according to 955.04.4.A - Decisions, within
the following time periods:
      1.   Small Cell Minor - Small Cell Minor applications shall be rendered
within 60 days of the date of filing.
      2.   Small Cell Substantial - Small Cell Substantial applications shall
be rendered within 90 days of the date of filing.
      3.   Wireless Support Structure - Wireless Support Structure applications
shall be rendered within 120 days of the date of filing.
 
   E.   The time period required in subsection (D) above may be tolled only:
      1.   By mutual agreement between the applicant and the City;
      2.   If the application is determined to be incomplete; or
      3.   The number of applications exceeds the City's capacity to process
them in a timely manner. If such number of applications exceeds capacity then
the following tolling time periods may be instituted:
         a.   The time period may initially be tolled for up to 15 days when
the number of applications received within any consecutive 30 day period
exceeds 15 applications;
         b.   For every additional 15 applications that the City receives above
the 15 applications stated in (a) the time period may be tolled an additional
15 days; and
         c.   However, in no instance shall the time tolled exceed 90
consecutive days.
 
   F.   To toll the time period for incompleteness, the City shall provide the
applicant notice within 30 days of the date of filing. Such notice shall
include a listing of the missing documents and/or information. The time period
resumes once the applicant submits a response. If an application is still
incomplete, the City shall notify the applicant within 10 days of the response.
 
   G.   If multiple applications are received by the City to install two or
more wireless support structures that would violate the spacing requirements of
955.05.2(8)2 - Design & Siting Requirements, or to collocate two or more small
cell facilities on the same wireless support structure, the City shall process
and render a decision in the order they are received.
 
   H.   In the event that an application is received by the City to install a
wireless support structure or small cell facility in a location in common with
another application for a facility in the ROW, preference shall be granted in
the following order of service provided:
      1.   Municipal Infrastructure
      2.   Water
      3.   Electricity
      4.   Gas
      5.   Landline Telephone
      6.   Wireless Service
 
   955.04.5 Amendments
   Amendments to an application in process which are not part of a response to
a notice of incompleteness or a correction notice shall be treated as a new
application.
 
   955.04.6 Issuance of Permit and Certificates
   A.   When an application is approved or granted consent, a permit shall be
issued to the applicant authorizing the following:
      1.   Small Cell Work Permit - A permit to perform the approved action,
removal, replacement, or maintenance work, subject to any conditions;
      2.   Small Cell Collocation Consent - Consent to perform the approved
removal, replacement, or installation, and grant occupancy within the City
Right-of-Way, subject to any permits or conditions;
      3.   Wireless Support Structure - Consent to construct, modify or replace
a wireless support structure in the Right-of-Way, subject to any permits or
conditions.
 
   B.   An applicant seeking collocation of a small cell facility to a wireless
support structure owned by the City and located within the City Right-of-Way
shall be issued an Attachment Certificate authorizing such attachment, subject
to any conditions.
 
   955.04.7 Scope of Approval
   A.   No permit or certificate authorized by this Chapter shall be
transferrable.
 
   B.   No permit or certificate authorized by this Chapter shall convey title,
equitable or legal, in the Right-of-Way.
 
   955.04.8 Duration of Approval
   A.   The work authorized by the permit issued must be completed within 180
days from the date of issuance, unless otherwise conditioned as part of the
approval.
 
   B.    An Attachment Certificate is valid for 10 years from the date of
issuance and may be renewed by the applicant in successive 5 year terms. Any
request for renewal is subject to approval by the Director of Public Works or
his designee and may be denied for cause.
 
   C.   In the event that any court of competent jurisdiction invalidates any
portion of federal law which mandates approval of any permit, such permit shall
automatically expire 1 year from the date of the judicial order.
 
   D.   In the event that any court of competent jurisdiction invalidates any
portion of state law which mandates approval of any permit shall automatically
expire 60 days from the date of the judicial order.
 
   955.04.9 Revocation
   The following are grounds for revocation or denial of approval:
    A.   The intentional provIsIon of materially misleading information by the
applicant (the provision of information is considered "intentional" where the
applicant was aware of the inaccuracies or could have discovered the
inaccuracies with reasonable diligence);
   B.   The failure to comply with any condition of approval, order, or other
applicable law, rule, or regulation;
   C.   The site, structure or operation is otherwise not in compliance with
any other provision(s) of applicable law;
   D.   The subject site or use is otherwise not in compliance due to
incomplete work or projects, or is not in compliance due to unperformed or slow
to perform work as part of an open permit.
 
   955.04.10 Appeals
   The Board of General Appeals, as constituted pursuant to Chapter
169 of the Oakwood Administrative Code, shall hear and decide upon appeals
where it is alleged there is an error in any written decision made by the
Director of Public Works or his designee in the enforcement of this Chapter.
   A.   A complete written appeal shall be filed by the appellant within 10
days of the written decision of the Director of Public Works or his designee or
the appeal shall become void. The appeal shall be filed with the Clerk of
Council. The written appeal shall:
      1.   Cite specific provisions of this Chapter that are alleged to have
been interpreted in error or the specific action being appealed and the grounds
on which the appeal is being made;
      2.   Include any required application fee in an amount set by the City
Manager and set forth in the city's permit fee schedule;
      3.   Include such other information as may be necessary to render a
reasonable decision;
      4.   A statement as to why the appellant has standing as an aggrieved
party to pursue the appeal.
   B.   An aggrieved party, the City Manager, or the City Manager's designee,
may appeal the decision of the Board of General Appeals in accordance with
Section
169.01(C) of the Oakwood Administrative Code.
   C.   The Board of General Appeals shall not be required to hear any case
that has been the subject of an appeal during the previous 12 months, unless
substantial new evidence, critical to the case, becomes available.
 
955.05 STANDARDS
   955.05.1 General
   The city of Oakwood desires to promote orderly small cell facility and
wireless support structure installations using the smallest and least intrusive
means available to provide services to the community. All such installations in
the public Right-of-Way shall comply with all applicable provisions in this
section. All applications shall be subject to the following conditions:
 
   A.   Compliance with all Applicable Laws - Permittee shall at all times
maintain compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws,
regulations, ordinances, or other rules.
   B.   Right to Inspect - The City or its designee may inspect a small cell
facility or wireless support structure within the Right-of-Way upon reasonable
notice to the permittee. The permittee shall cooperate with all inspections.
The City reserves the right to support, repair, disable, or remove any elements
of the small cell facility or wireless support structure in emergencies or when
the small cell facility or wireless support structure threatens imminent harm
to persons or property.
   C.   Contact information - Permittee shall at all times maintain accurate
contact information for all parties responsible for the small cell facility or
wireless support structure, which shall include a phone number, street mailing
address, and email address for at least one natural person. All such contact
information for responsible parties shall be provided to the city's Department
of Public Works.
   D.   Indemnities - The permittee and, if applicable, the non-government
owner of a small cell facility or wireless support structure shall defend,
indemnify, and hold harmless the City and its agents, officers, officials, and
employees from:
      1.   Any and all damages, liabilities, injuries, losses, costs, and
expenses arising out of any claims, demands, lawsuits, writs of mandamus, or
other actions or proceedings brought against the City to challenge, attack,
seek to modify, set aside, void, or annul the City's approval of the applicable
permit or certificate; and
      2.   Any and all damages, liabilities, injuries, losses, costs, and
expenses and any claims, demands, lawsuits, or other actions or proceedings of
any kind, whether for personal injury, death, or property damage, arising out
of or in connection with the activities or performance of the permittee or its
agents, employees, licensees, contractors, subcontractors, or independent
contractors.
      3.   In the event the City becomes aware of any such actions or claims,
the City shall promptly notify the permittee and shall reasonably cooperate in
the defense. It is expressly agreed that the City shall have the right to
approve, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, the legal counsel
providing the City's defense, and the permittee (as applicable) shall reimburse
City for any costs and expenses directly and necessarily incurred by the City
in the course of the defense.
   E.   Interference with City Communication Services - In the event that the
City has reason to believe that permittee's operations are causing interference
with the City's radio communications operations, then the permittee shall, at
its cost, immediately cooperate with the City to either rule out permittee as
the interference source or eliminate the interference. Cooperation with the
City may include, but shall not be limited to, temporarily switching the
equipment on and off for testing.
   F.   Adverse Impact - Permittee shall undertake all reasonable efforts to
avoid undue adverse impacts to adjacent properties and/or uses that may arise
from the construction, operation, maintenance, modification, or removal of the
small cell facility or wireless support structure.
   G.   Maintenance - The site and the small cell facility or wireless support
structure, including but not limited to all landscaping, fencing, and related
equipment, must be maintained in a neat and clean manner and in accordance with
all approved plans and conditions of approval.
   H.   Good Condition - Small cell facilities and wireless support structures
shall at all times employ best practices and maintain in use only the best
available technology and methods for preventing failures and accidents so that
the same shall not menace or endanger the life or property of any person.
   I.   Graffiti and Vandalism - Permittee shall remove any graffiti at
permittee's sole expense.
   J.   Exposure to RF Radiation - All small cell facilities must comply with
all standards and regulations of the FCC and any other state or federal
government agency with the authority to regulate RF exposure standards.
   K.   Utility Lines - Service lines must be undergrounded whenever feasible
to avoid additional overhead lines.
   L.   Relocation for Public Improvements - Permittee shall remove and
relocate the permitted small cell facility and/or wireless support structure at
permittee's sole expense to accommodate construction of a public improvement
project by the City.
   M.   Removal if Discontinued - In the event that the use of a small cell
facility is discontinued, the owner shall provide written notice to the City of
its intent to discontinue use and the date when the use shall be discontinued.
If a small cell facility is not removed within 90 days of discontinued use, the
City may remove it at the owner's expense irrespective of the notice
requirement under this section.
   N.   Abandoned - In the event that the use of a small cell facility is
abandoned, the City may remove it at the owner's expense.
   O.   Site Restoration
      1.   Upon completion of the new work, the contractor shall restore the
street and/or alley pavement as required;
      2.   Upon completion of the new work, the contractor shall restore all
concrete walks, driveway aprons, and other concrete as required;
      3.   Upon completion of the new work, the contractor shall restore all
tree lawns and/or sod strips with topsoil and sod.
   P.   General Construction - All work and designs shall comply with the
following general standards for construction in the City's Right-of-Way:
      1.   City of Oakwood Codified Ordinances;
      2.   City of Oakwood Standard Construction Drawings;
      3.   City of Oakwood Construction and Material Specifications;
      4.   Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) Location and Design Manual;
      5.   ODOT Standard Drawings;
      6.   ODOT Construction and Material Specifications;
      7.   Ohio Manual of Traffic Control Devices;
      8.   American Association of State Highway Transportation Officials
(AASHTO) A Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets;
      9.   AASHTO Roadside Design Guide;
      10.   AASHTO Guide for the Planning, Design, and Operation of Pedestrian
Facilities;
      11.   AASHTO Guide for Development of Bicycle Facilities;   .
      12.   United States Access Board (USAB) Proposed Guidelines for
Pedestrians in the Public Right-of-Way;
      13.   USAB American with Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines;
      14.   National Fire Protection Association 70 National Electric Code; and
      15.   All other applicable local, state, and federal codes and
regulations.
   Q.   Taxes and assessments - To the extent taxes or other assessments are
imposed by taxing authorities on the use of City property as a result of an
applicant's use or occupation of the Right-of-Way, the applicant shall be
responsible for payment of such taxes, payable annually unless otherwise
required by the taxing authority.
   R.   Interference - Small cell wireless and wireless support structures
shall be constructed and maintained in such a manner that will not interfere
with the use of other property.
   S.   Financial Condition - All owners must procure and provide to the City a
bond, or must provide proof of an equivalent financial mechanism, to ensure
compliance with all provisions of this chapter. Such bond or financial
mechanism must specifically cover the cost of removal of the item placed in the
Right-of-Way.
   T.   Setbacks for Visibility and Access - Any new small cell facility or
wireless support structure and other improvements associated with a new small
cell facility or wireless support structure or an existing small cell facility
or wireless support structure must be setback from intersections, alleys and
driveways and placed in locations where it will not obstruct motorists'
sightlines or pedestrian access.
   U.   Obstructions - Any new small cell facility or wireless support
structure and other improvements associated with a new small cell facility or
wireless support structure or an existing small cell facility or wireless
support structure shall not obstruct any:
      1.   worker access to any above-ground or underground infrastructure for
traffic control, streetlight or public transportation, including without
limitation any curb control sign, parking meter, vehicular traffic sign or
signal, pedestrian traffic sign or signal, barricade reflectors;
      2.   access to any public transportation vehicles, shelters, street
furniture or other improvements at any public transportation stop (including,
without limitation, bus stops, streetcar stops, and bike share stations);
      3.   worker access to above ground or underground infrastructure owned or
operated by any public or private utility agency;
      4.   fire hydrant access;
      5.   access to any doors, gates, sidewalk doors, passage doors, stoops or
other ingress and egress points to any building appurtenant to the Right-of-
Way; or
      6.   access to any fire escape.
   V.   Historic or Architecturally Significant Structures - Any new utility
installation and other improvements associated with a new utility installation
or an existing utility installation may not be placed directly in front of any
historic or architecturally significant structures in prominent or highly
visible locations.
   W.   No placement of any small cell facility or wireless support structure
shall necessitate tree trimming, cause removal of, or otherwise damage any tree
located within the City's Right-of-Way or a designated utility easement. Such
small cell facility or wireless support structure shall not be located within
the eventual mature dripline or tree crown of any existing tree located within
the City's Right-of-Way or a designated utility easement.
 
   955.05.2    Design and Siting Requirements
   A.   General Requirements
      1.   Wireless support structures shall align with other poles to achieve
a uniform inline appearance.
      2.   Wireless support structures shall be setback from the edge of
pavement according to applicable safety and construction standards as set forth
in 955.05.1(P) - General Construction.
      3.   All small cell facilities and wireless support structures and any
related items shall be installed and maintained plumb and level and shall
maintain an orderly and neat appearance.
      4.   All equipment and enclosures shall be attached, anchored and/or
strapped tightly to poles using corrosion resistant steel hardware.
      5.   Wireless support structures shall support no more than two small
cell facilities.
      6.   Ambient noise suppression measures or placement of the equipment in
locations less likely to impact adjacent properties shall be required to ensure
compliance with all applicable noise regulations.
      7.   Unless otherwise required for compliance with FAA or FCC
regulations, the small cell facility or wireless support structure shall not
include any permanently installed lights. Any lights associated with the
equipment shall be appropriately shielded from public view. This shall not be
interpreted to prohibit streetlights or the placement of luminaires by the
City.
 
   B.   Location
      1.   In accordance with ORC 4939.0314(D), Authority of a Municipal
Corporation, the City shall reserve the right to propose an alternate location
to the proposed location of a new wireless support structure, provided the
alternate location is within 100' or a distance equal to the width of the
Right-of-Way in or on which the new wireless support structure is proposed,
whichever is greater. The city of Oakwood also finds that certain locations and
collocation configurations are preferred. A preferred location and collocation
configuration should be utilized whenever possible and should only be surpassed
if in the determination of the Director of Public Works or his designee, clear
and convincing evidence supports such a decision. Cost alone should not be
grounds for such a determination. The order of preference is as follows:
         a.   First, small cell facilities should be collocated on an existing
pole or wireless support structure within a utility easement. If no such pole
or wireless support structure is available then proceed to the next preference;
         b.   Second, small cell facilities should be collocated on an existing
pole or wireless support structure within an alley. If no such pole or wireless
support structure is available then proceed to the next preference;
         c.   Third, small cell facilities should be collocated on a new
wireless support structure within a utility easement. If no such location is
available then proceed to the next preference;
         d.   Fourth, small cell facilities should be collocated on a new
wireless support structure within an alley. If no such location is available
then proceed to the next preference;
         e.   Fifth, small cell facilities should be collocated on a wireless
support structure currently supporting a small cell facility located within the
City Right-of-Way. If no such wireless support structure is available then
proceed to the next preference;
         f.   Sixth, small cell facilities should be collocated on an existing
pole located within the City Right-of-Way. If no such existing pole is
available then proceed to the next preference;
         g.   Seventh, small cell facilities should be collocated on a new
wireless support structure located within a utility easement. If no such
location is available then proceed to the next preference;
         h.   Eighth, small cell facilities should be collocated on a new
wireless support structure located within an alley. If no such location is
available then proceed to the next preference
         i.   Ninth, small cell facilities should be collocated on a new
wireless support structure located within the City Right-of-Way.
       2.   Any new wireless support structure shall be located at least 1230'
from any existing small cell facility.
 
   C.   Wireless Facilities Design
      1.   Wireless support structures shall be subject to the following design
standards:
         a.   Wireless support structures shall be limited to 40 feet in
height.
         b.   Wireless support structures shall be capable of supporting at
least two small cell facility operators.
         c.   New wireless support structures shall have the following design
elements:
            i.   Material - aluminum poles;
            ii.   Color - raw spun aluminum or Oakwood blue (SW-2739 Charcoal
Blue or equivalent), as directed by the Director of Public Works;
            iii.   Diameter - 12 inches;
            iv.   Style - smooth round tapered profile;
            v.   Base -   trapezoidal pedestal base on a reinforced concrete
footing/foundation pier;
            vi.   Exception - If the aesthetics and character of the immediate
area would be better matched by a pole of a different material, color, style,
or base as determined by the Director of Public Works or his designee, then
such design elements may be substituted with an alternate design element. Such
determination shall be based on the following factors:
               I.   The design features of nearby poles serving in a similar
capacity;
               II.   The design features of the existing or proposed
streetscape, district, or site;
               III.   The historical context of a district or specific site;
               IV.    A desire to camouflage or conceal the pole from view.
      2.   Small cell facilities shall be subject to the following design
standards:
         a.   The City reserves the right to require the following:
            i.   Antenna and all associated equipment shall be concealed to the
extent deemed necessary by the Director of Public Works or his designee in
response to the aesthetic context of the small cell facility. Some possible
configurations include but shall not be limited to the following:
               I.   Antenna(s) associated with the first fitting on a wireless
support structure shall be top-mounted and concealed within a radome that also
conceals the cable connections, antenna mount and other hardware. The Director
of Public Works or his designee may approve a side- mounted antenna with the
initial fitting if, in the Director of Public Works or his designee's
discretion, the side- mounted antenna would be a better match to the aesthetics
and character of the immediate area and would promote the purposes of this
Chapter.
               II.   GPS antennas be placed within the radome or directly above
the radome not to exceed six inches.
         b.   Each Antenna and all associated equipment shall not exceed 6
cubic feet in volume.
          c.   All portions of a Small Cell Facility other than an antenna and
as identified by ORC 4939.01(P)2, shall not exceed 28 cubic feet in volume per
facility.
         d.   Small cell facilities mounted to a wireless support structure
shall be completely concealed within a common enclosure capable of containing
at least two small sell facilities. Such common enclosures shall:
            i.   not exceed 21 cubic feet in volume;
            ii.   not exceed 90 inches in height, 20 inches in width, or 20
inches in depth;
            iii.   not extend more than 24 inches away from the pole on which
it is mounted;
            iv.   shall be centered on the vertical axis of the pole to which
it is mounted;
            v.   be mounted at a distance of at least 10 feet measured from
grade to the bottom of the enclosure;
            vi.   be mounted on the side of the pole facing away from nearest
traffic lane's direction of travel.
         e.   Such common enclosures shall have the following design elements:
            i.   Material - The enclosure material shall be metal, a composite,
or an equivalent material as determined by the Director of Public Works or his
designee.
            ii.   Color - The enclosure shall match the color of the pole on
which it is mounted.
            iii.   Style - The enclosure shall match the style of the pole on
which it is mounted.
            iv.   Coordinated Design Elements - Common enclosures shall match
the material, color, and style of nearby existing common enclosures when:
               I.   Such enclosures are located within 5000' of an existing
common enclosure; and
               II.   Such enclosures are mounted on wireless support structures
of a similar or matching design.
            v.   Exception - If the aesthetics and character of the immediate
area would be better matched by an enclosure a different material, color,
style, or by deviating from the design of a nearby existing common enclosure as
determined by the Director of Public Works or his designee, then such design
elements may be substituted with an alternate design element. Such
determination shall be based on the following factors:
               I.   The design features of nearby poles serving in a similar
capacity;
               II.   The design features of the existing or proposed
streetscape, district, or site;
               III.   The historical context of a district or specific site;
IV. A desire to camouflage or conceal the enclosure from view.
         f.   All ground mounted equipment shall be placed in an underground
vault. No above grade ground mounted equipment in service of a small cell
facility is permitted unless the following conditions can be satisfied as
determined by the Director of Public Works or his designee:
             i.   The applicant has submitted clear and convincing evidence
that the equipment cannot feasibly be pole-mounted, placed in an underground
vault, or hidden within or integrated into an existing streetscape element
(i.e. - bus stop shelter). Increased costs alone shall not be a consideration.
If a ground mounted enclosure is approved, the Director of Public Works or his
designee shall reserve the right to require any of the following conditions:
               I.   Concealed Enclosure - All equipment shall be completely
concealed within a metal, composite, or equivalent material enclosure as
determined by the Director of Public Works or his designee.
               II.   Smallest Size - The enclosure shall be no larger than
necessary based on the smallest available size of the proposed equipment as
determined by the Director of Public Works or his designee.
               III.   Camouflage - Camouflaging elements may be required.
                  Such elements may include, but shall not be limited to,
public art displayed on the enclosure, strategic placement in less visible or
obtrusive locations, placement within an existing streetscape element,
landscape screening, and strategic painting or coating to camouflage such
enclosure or equipment.
            ii.   The maximum height of any such enclosure shall be 30".
 
   955.05.3    Reservation of Right-of-Way
   The City retains the right to reserve space for future public safety or
transportation uses in the Right-of-Way or on a wireless support structure or
pole owned or operated by the City in a documented and approved plan in place
at the time an application is filed. A reservation of space shall not preclude
placement of a pole or collocation of a small cell facility. If replacement of
the City's pole or wireless support structure is necessary to accommodate the
collocation of the small cell facility and the future use, the small cell
facility operator shall pay for the replacement of the pole or wireless support
structure, and the replaced pole or wireless support structure must accommodate
the future use.
 
955.06 NONCONFORMITY
   A nonconforming small cell facility and/or wireless support structure shall
immediately lose its nonconforming designation and must be brought into
compliance with all of the provisions of this chapter, and all other applicable
City laws and ordinances or be removed if any of the following conditions are
present:
   A.   The nonconforming small cell facility and/or wireless support structure
or a part of the nonconforming small cell facility and/or wireless support
structure is altered, modified, relocated, replaced, or changed in any manner
whatsoever;
   B.   The nonconforming small cell facility and/or wireless support structure
is damaged or deteriorated and requires any process of reconstruction, repair,
maintenance, or restoration, and the cost of said reconstruction, repair,
maintenance, or restoration exceeds fifty percent of the small cell facility
and/or wireless support structure's replacement cost;
   C.   The nonconforming small cell facility and/or wireless support structure
is abandoned.
955.07 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS
   In the event that any other applicable law or code requires any more
restrictive requirements, the most restrictive requirement shall control. Small
Cell Facilities regulated by this Chapter shall not be considered "Wireless
Telecommunication Facilities" within the meaning of, or subject to the
provisions of, Section
405  of the Zoning Code.
955.08 SEVERABILITY
   The provisions of any part of this Chapter are severable. If any provision
or subsection, or the application of any provision or subsection to any person
or circumstances, is held invalid, the remaining provisions, subsection, and
applications of such ordinance to other persons or circumstances shall not be
made invalid as well. It is declared to be the intent of this section that the
remaining provisions would have been adopted had such invalid provisions not
been included in this Chapter when originally adopted by Council.
955.99 PENALTIES
   A.   Any person in violation of any of the terms of this Chapter, or who,
being the owner or agent of the owner of any lot, tract, or parcel of land,
shall suffer or permit another to erect, construct, reconstruct, alter, repair,
convert, attach, or maintain any such facility, shall be deemed to have
violated the provisions hereof and commits a minor misdemeanor each day during
the period such violation continues.
   B.   If any utility installation is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted, attached, or maintained in violation of this
chapter or of any regulations made pursuant hereto, the proper officer of the
City, in addition to other remedies, may institute in the name of the City any
appropriate action or proceeding, whether by legal process or otherwise, to
prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair, conversion, maintenance, attachment, or use, to restrain, correct, or
abate such violation, to prevent the use of such utility installation, and/or
to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about such utility
installation.
   C.   The Department of Public Works is authorized to make requests and to
issue orders regarding utility installations in the Right-of-Way for the
purpose of public safety and compliance with City ordinances. The Department of
Public Works is also authorized to conduct visual and external inspections of
utility installations in the Right-of-Way at any time and shall make efforts to
coordinate with the provider responsible for a utility installation for any
internal inspection of the relevant equipment.
Legislative History: Ord. 4860, passed 5/7/2018.
 
CHAPTER 965
Revocable Street Privileges for Non Utility System Providers
965.01   Revocable Street Privileges for Non Utility System Providers.
965.02   Non Utility System Provider Permittee (NUSPP).
965.03   Restoration.
965.04   Revocation or Modification.
965.05   Liability of Permittee.
965.06   Unlawful Use.
 
 
965.01  REVOCABLE STREET PRIVILEGES FOR NON UTILITY SYSTEM PROVIDERS.
   Except as otherwise provided by Ordinance, the City Manager shall have
control of the grant, revocation, supervision, and inspection of revocable
street privileges granted to non utility system providers. When the public
safety or welfare shall require the discontinuance or modification of a
revocable street privilege of a non utility system provider, the City Manager
shall take such action as is necessary for the public interest. The City
Manager is authorized to prepare and enforce rules and regulations to carry out
the provisions of this section.
   A revocable street privilege granted to a "Non Utility System Provider"
means an authorized or permitted private right in the use of a special part of
a City street, alley, way or easement, separate and distinct from the use of
City streets, alleys, ways or easements by the general public as these are
regulated by other sections of the Codified Ordinances of Oakwood, which use is
granted to an entity other than one which meets the definition of "Utility
System Provider" set forth in § 951.03(q).
965.02 NON UTILITY SYSTEM PROVIDER PERMITTEE (NUSPP).
   Any owner of a lot or parcel of real estate, successors, heirs and assigns
may make application for a permit to hold a revocable street privilege abutting
or on (in the case of an easement) the lot or parcel subject to the regulations
of this Chapter.
965.03 RESTORATION.
   The cost of all restoration to site improvements, including streets,
sidewalks, etc., or other adjustments required because of changes made by
utility companies or other lawful users due to the construction, maintenance,
operation, relocation, discontinuance or abandonment of a revocable street
privilege shall be paid by the Non Utility System Provider Permittee in
accordance with City specification.
965.04 REVOCATION OR MODIFICATION.
   Every revocable street privilege may be subject to revocation or
modification upon 30 days written notice served upon the Non Utility System
Provider Permittee personally or mailed to the owner of record.
    Whenever a revocable street privilege is terminated, the Non Utility System
Provider Permittee shall remove all private construction, and make all required
restoration in accordance with City specifications. In the event there is
failure to remove and restore within a reasonable time, the City Manager shall
be authorized to cause the removal and restoration and to have the expense
thereof charged to the Non Utility System Provider Permittee.
   If it is determined by the City Manager that existence of the private
construction in the street, alley, way or easement presents no difficulties,
the City Manager may waive removal and all private equipment left in any
street, alley, way or easement shall thereupon become the property of the City.
   The City Manager may require a revocable street privilege to be modified to
accommodate public improvements or improvements made by authorized utilities at
the Non Utility System Provider Permittee's expense.
965.05 LIABILITY OF PERMITTEE.
   It shall be a condition of the use or enjoyment of any revocable street
privilege that the Non Utility System Provider Permittee shall save and hold
the City harmless of any and all liability, claims or expenses of any kind
caused by, or growing out of, the construction, maintenance, operation,
relocation, discontinuance or abandonment of such revocable street privilege.
It shall further be a condition of the use or enjoyment of any revocable street
privilege that the Non Utility System Provider Permitee shall bear the cost for
and reimburse the City for its expenses in accessing for repair, maintenance,
testing, observation, replacement or other lawful purpose its utilities in the
right-of-way or within the City's easement for which the revocable privilege
has been granted.
   The City Manager is authorized to require a bond to protect against such
damage or loss and to provide for such indemnification.
965.06 UNLAWFUL USE.
   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or maintain a private use of
a public street, alley, way or easement other than in accordance with this
Chapter or other applicable provisions of the Oakwood Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 4571, passed 2/7/05)
 
Adopted by Ord. No.5010 on December 2, 2024
CITY OF OAKWOOD, 30 PARK AVENUE, OAKWOOD, OHIO 45419
APPENDIX A -- PUBLIC SERVICES RATE SHEET
WATER UTILITY RATES
RATES FOR WATER INSIDE THE CITY
1.   Minimum charge per month according to size of meter:
 
5/8" or smaller 23.44 2" 126.83
3/4"            29.14 3" 253.64
1"              45.79 4" 382.49
1 ½"           76.13 6" 658.91
 
2.   Consumption rate, per 100 cu.ft. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . .   4.13
All bills due by last day of month. THEREAFTER a 10% charge on past due amount.
1 1/2% per month interest begins 30 days after due date.
RATES FOR WATER OUTSIDE THE CITY
Including $0.10 per hundred cu. ft. Well Field Protection Fee and $1.321 fixed
fee
1.   Minimum charge per month according to size of meter:
 
5/8" or smaller 52.35  2" 222.98
3/4"            61.74  3" 432.18
1"              89.24  4" 644.68
1 ½"           139.25 6" 1,100.86
   . . .   . . . . . . .   
   . . . . . . . . . . .      . . . . . . .   
   . . . . . . . . . . . . .      . . . . . . .   
   . . . . . . . . . .      . . . . . .   
2.    Consumption rate, per 100 cu. ft. 7.04
   HYDRANTS   
1.   Fire hydrants inside city per month, per hydrant . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . .    12.50
2.   Fire hydrants outside city per month, per hydrant . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . .    25.00
FIRE LINES
For the furnishing of water service to fire lines within the boundaries of the
City of Oakwood,
the rates shall be $21.00 per month, and for the furnishing of water service to
fire
lines beyond the boundaries of the City of Oakwood, the rate shall be $31.50
per month.
SANITARY SEWAGE RATES
1.   Minimum charge per month according to size of meter:
Meter Size                           Inside City Rates Outside City Rates
                                                       (25% surcharge)
5/8" or 3/4"                         26.50             33.13
1"                                   27.21             34.01
1 ½"                                27.91             34.90
2"                                   28.49             35.61
3"                                   29.34             36.66
4"                                   30.04             37.55
6"                                   30.99             38.75
2. Consumption rate, per 100 cu. ft. 5.511             6.889
 
MONTHLY REFUSE COLLECTION & DISPOSAL RATES
SINGLE FAMILY HOME   35.00
DUPLEX               70.00
TRIPLEX              105.00
FOUR-UNIT         140.00
MORE THAN FOUR UNITS 35.00 per unit
 
MONTHLY STORMWATER MANAGEMENT RATES
 
SINGLE FAMILY HOME                10.00
DUPLEX                            10.00
TRIPLEX                           10.00
EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU) 3,403 sq. ft.
FOUR OR MORE UNITS, or COMMERCIAL Formula: (Impervious area in sq.ft. / ERU)
                                  rounded to nearest whole number x 10.00
 
(Ord. 5024. Passed December 1, 2025)
CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF OAKWOOD
PART TEN - ZONING ORDINANCE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
TITLE I   Title, Jurisdiction, Interpretation and Separability
      Sec.
100   Title
      Sec.
101   Jurisdiction
      Sec.
102   Interpretation
      Sec.
103   Separability
 
TITLE 2   Purpose
      Sec.
200   Purpose
   
TITLE 3   Rules and Definitions
      Sec.
300   Rules of Construction
      Sec.
301   Terms Defined
   
TITLE 4   General Provisions
      Sec.
400   Rules of Transition
      Sec.
401   Applicability
      Sec.
402   Accessory Buildings, Bulk Regulations and Obstructions.
      Sec.
403   Fences, Walls, and Hedges
      Sec.
404   Temporary Uses and Events
      Sec.
405   Wireless Telecommunication Facilities
      Sec.
406   Shielding of Outdoor Illumination
      Sec.
407   Stormwater Management
      Sec.
408   Medical Marijuana
      Sec.
409   Residential Group Rentals
 
TITLE 5   Zoning Districts
      Sec.
500   Districts
      Sec.
501   Official Zoning Map
      Sec.
502   Conformance to Comprehensive Plan
      Sec.
503   Exclusive Nature of Zoning District Regulations
 
TITLE 6   Residential Zoning Districts
      Sec.
600   Residence Districts Generally
      Sec.
601   R1 Single Family Residence Zoning District
      Sec.
602   R2 Single Family Residence Zoning District
      Sec.
603   R3 Single Family Residence Zoning District
      Sec.
604   R4 Single Family Residence Zoning District
      Sec.
605   R5 Two-Family Residence Zoning District
      Sec.
606   R6 General Residence Zoning District
      Sec.
607   R7 General Residence Zoning District
 
TITLE 7   Business Zoning Districts
      Sec.
700   Business Districts Generally
      Sec.
701   NB Neighborhood Business District
      Sec.
702   CB Community Business District
 
TITLE 8   Special Purpose Districts
      Sec.
800   Purpose
      Sec.
801   C Cemetery District
      Sec.
802   MU Multi-Use Special Planning District
      Sec.
803   WO Wellhead Operation District
      Sec.
804   WF Wellfield Protection Overlay District
      Sec.
805   Transitional Use District
 
TITLE 9   Design and Performance Standards
      Sec.
900   Purpose of Title
      Sec.
901   Standards for Specific Uses
 
TITLE 10   Administration and Enforcement
      Sec.
1000   Purpose
 
      PART A - Creation and Authority
      Sec.
1001   Planning Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals
      Sec.
1002   Authority - Administrative Bodes and Officers
   
      PART B - General Administrative Procedures and Enforcement
      Sec.
1003   Amendments
      Sec.
1004   Special Use Permits
      Sec.
1005   Conditional Use Permits
      Sec.
1006   Variances
      Sec.
1007   Appeals
      Sec.
1008   Procedures for Changes to the Ordinance
      Sec.
1009   Permits and Certificates
      Sec.
1010   Enforcement
 
      PART C - Performance Review Procedures
      Sec.
1011   Planned Developments
      Sec.
1012   Site Development Plan Review
      Sec.
1013   Major Site Development Plan Review
      Sec.
1014   Minor Site Development Plan Review
      Sec.
1015   Landscape Plan Review
      Sec.
1016   Business District Design Guidelines
 
TITLE 11   Off-Street Parking and Loading
      Sec.
1100   Purpose
      Sec.
1101   Off-Street Parking
      Sec.
1102   Parking Space Requirements
      Sec.
1103   Off-Street Loading
 
TITLE 12   Signs
      Sec.
1201.01   Purpose
      Sec.
1201.02   How signs are Regulated
      Sec.
1201.03   Prohibited and Exempt Signage
      Sec.
1201.04   Temporary Signs
      Sec.
1201.05   Signs Requiring Permits
      Sec.
1201.06   General Sign Regulations
      Sec.
 
1201.07   Sign Regulations by District
      Sec.
 
1201.08   Regulations by Sign Type
      Sec.
 
1201.09   Non-conforming and Unsafe Signs and Nuisances
      Sec.
1201.10   Conflicts and Severability
 
TITLE 13   Non-Conforming Lots, Structures and Uses
      Sec.
1300   Purpose
      Sec.
1301   Authority to Continue Non-conforming Buildings,
            Structures, and Uses
      Sec.
1302   Non-conforming Lots of Record
      Sec.
1303   Continuance of Non-conforming Buildings, Structures, and Uses
      Sec.
1304   Non-conforming Use of Land
      Sec.
1305   Non-conforming Fences and Walls
      Sec.
1306   Non-conforming Driveway Setback
   
APPENDIX
      
Table 1   
      
Table 2   
TITLE 1. TITLE, JURISDICTION, INTERPRETATION AND SEPARABILITY
   Sec. 100   Title
This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the "Oakwood Zoning
Ordinance" and may be referred to herein as the "Zoning Ordinance" or "this
Ordinance".
   Sec. 101   Jurisdiction
This Ordinance shall apply to all land, uses of land, and buildings and
structures within the municipal limits of the City of Oakwood.
   Sec. 102   Interpretation
      102.1   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
Ordinance must be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience, prosperity, and general
welfare.
      102.2   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this Ordinance,
upon the use of land or buildings or upon the bulk of buildings, are either
more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any
other provision of this Ordinance or of any other law, Ordinance, resolution,
rule, or regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or
which impose higher standards or requirements shall govern.
      102.3   The requirements of this Ordinance shall be deemed to be
"exclusive" and "permissive". Unless expressly authorized by the terms of this
Ordinance, when permitting and granting actions and rights, by definition, it
excludes other "similar" or "like", or dissimilar actions or rights.
      102.4   This Ordinance is not intended to abrogate any easement,
covenant, or any other private agreement, provided that where the regulations
of this Ordinance are more restrictive or impose higher standards or
requirements than such easements, covenants, or other private agreements, the
requirements of this Ordinance shall govern.
      102.5   No building, structure, or use which was not lawfully existing at
the time of the adoption of this Ordinance shall become or be made lawful
solely by reason of the adoption of this Ordinance.
      102.6   Nothing contained in this Ordinance shall be deemed to be a
consent, license, or permit to use any property, or to locate, construct, or
maintain any building, structure or facility or to carry on any trade,
occupation or activity.
   Sec. 103   Separability
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the City Council that the several
provisions of this Ordinance are separable, in accordance with the following:
      103.1   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any
provision of this Ordinance to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any
other provisions of this Ordinance not specifically included in said judgment.
 
      103.2   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this Ordinance to a particular property,
building, or other structure, such judgment shall not affect the application of
said provision to any other property, building, or structure not specifically
included in said judgment.
TITLE 2. PURPOSE
   Sec. 200   Purpose
The Oakwood Zoning Ordinance is adopted with the purpose of protecting and
promoting the public, health, safety, morals, comfort and general welfare. The
fulfillment of this purpose is accomplished by seeking:
         A.   To implement the objectives of the Oakwood Comprehensive Plan.
         B.   To improve and enhance the overall physical environment of the
City of Oakwood as generally set forth as part of the Oakwood Comprehensive
Plan.
         C.   To protect residential, business, and commercial areas alike from
harmful encroachment by incompatible uses and to ensure that land allocated to
a class of uses must not be negatively impacted by other inappropriate uses.
         D.   To encourage functionally adequate commercial, business and
residential structures, and avoid functional obsolescence of the same.
         E.   To ensure the proper design of buildings and structures in
relation to one another recognizing that the aesthetic attraction of Oakwood's
human-made environment significantly contributes to community quality of life.
         F.   To establish adequate standards for the provision of light, air,
and open space.
         G.   To zone all properties with the intent to conserve the value of
buildings and land and encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout
the City.
         H.   To protect local ground water and well resources from
contamination due to human development activity.
         I.   To minimize congestion on public streets.
         J.   To facilitate the provision of adequate transportation and of
other public requirements and services such as water, sewerage, schools, and
parks.
         K.   To avoid hazards to persons and damage to property from
inappropriate development of lands and provide for adequate drainage, curbing
of erosion, and reduction of flood damage.
         L.   To avoid undue concentration of population.
         M.   To prevent the overcrowding of land, thereby ensuring proper
living and working conditions.
         N.   To foster compatible relationships between residential, business,
and commercial uses for the mutual benefit of all.
         O.   To isolate or control the location of unavoidable nuisance-
producing uses.
         P.   To establish reasonable standards to which buildings and
structures must conform, and to encourage reasonable flexibility of development
design through appropriate innovation.
         Q.   To provide for the regulation of nonconforming buildings,
structures and uses.
         R.   To ensure that additions to, and alterations or remodeling of,
existing buildings or structures will comply with the restrictions and
limitations imposed herein.
         S.   To define the powers and duties of the administrative and
enforcement officers and bodies.
         T.   To prescribe penalties for any violation of the provisions of
this Ordinance, or of any amendment thereto.
TITLE 3. RULES AND DEFINITIONS
   Sec. 300   Rules of Construction
In the construction of this Title the rules and definitions contained in this
Title must be observed and applied, except when the context clearly indicates
otherwise. For clarity of interpretation of the context, the following
definitions of word use shall apply:
         A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and
words used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and the
plural the singular.
         B.   The words "shall" or "must" are mandatory and not discretionary.
         C.   The word "may" is permissive.
         D.   The word "lot" shall include the words "piece," "parcel," and
"plots"; the word "building" includes all other structures of every kind.
         E.   All "measured distances" shall be to the nearest integral foot.
         F.   Words contained in this Ordinance and not defined hereinafter
shall assume definitions as prescribed in Webster's unabridged dictionary (most
current edition).
   Sec. 301   Terms Defined
   Access is the ability to ingress and/or egress from a public roadway.
Access, direct means the ability to ingress and/or egress from a point
immediately integral to the public roadway.
Access Point any driveway or other point of egress and/or ingress such as a
street, road, or highway that connects to a public roadway.
Accessory Building or Use Accessory building or use means and includes any
building, use or structure which is incidental to and serves a principal
building or principal use, and is subordinate in area, extent and purpose to
the principal building or use served; the height of any accessory building must
not exceed eighteen (18) feet from the highest point of the roof to adjoining
ground level. An accessory building or use must be located on the same zoning
lot as the principal building in use, with the single exception of such
accessory off-street parking facilities as are permitted to locate elsewhere
than on the same zoning lot with the building or use served.
Addition is the increasing of the cubic contents of a building or the
increasing of its ground area.
Adjacent means bordering, touching, contiguous or adjoining.
Advertising Device means any advertising sign, billboard, statuary or poster
panel which directs attention to a business, commodity, service or
entertainment not exclusively related to the premises where such sign is
located or to which it is affixed, but does not include those advertising
signs, billboards or poster panels which direct attention to the business on
the premises or to a brand name of a product or commodity with which the
business is specifically identified and which is sold on the premises.
Air Conditioning System means a mechanical system designed to control and
maintain the temperature, humidity, movement and quality of air in buildings
and structures, to secure health and comfort.
 
Air Conditioning System, Central means an air conditioning system designed and
constructed to condition the air throughout a building or structure, or large
portion thereof, and is considered an integral part of the mechanical plant or
core of such building, and ordinarily includes a central unit containing
refrigerant, coils and evaporators, and a system of supply and return air ducts
and plenum chambers, as distinguished from a window or room model air
conditioning unit.
Alley means a passage or way, open to public travel, sixteen feet or less in
width, which affords generally a secondary means of vehicular access to
abutting lots and is not intended for general traffic circulation.
Alteration means any change in size, shape, character, occupancy or use of a
building or structure.
Amenity is a natural or man-made feature which enhances or makes more
attractive or satisfying a particular property or development.
Antenna means any panel, whip, dish, or other apparatus designed for
communications through the sending and/or receiving of electromagnetic waves,
excluding any support structure other than brackets.
Antenna Support Structure means any building or other structure other than a
tower which can be used for location of wireless telecommunications facilities.
Apartment consists of one or more rooms comprising a dwelling unit wherein
multiple dwellings are a part of a single structure comprising a multiple
family dwelling.
Applicant means any person that applies for a permit pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Application means the process by which an applicant submits a request and
indicates a desire to be granted a use permit under the provisions of this
Ordinance. An application includes all written documentation, verbal statements
and representations, in whatever form or forum, made by an applicant to the
City of Oakwood concerning such a request.
Appurtenance means the visible, functional objects accessory to and part of
buildings.
Aquifer means a glacial formation, group of glacial formations, or part of a
glacial formation that contains enough saturated permeable material to yield
significant quantities of water.
Arcade or "amusement arcade" means any establishment displaying for public
patronage or keeping for operation four or more amusement devices including,
but not limited to, pool tables, fouseball tables, air hockey tables,
mechanical rides for children, electronic games and shooting gallery type
games.
Assisted Living Facility means housing which provides a living arrangement of
self contained units that integrate shelter, food service and other services
for adults who require some level of care possibly including twenty-four (24)
hour oversight. Services may include meals, laundry, transportation,
housekeeping and organized activities which create opportunities for
socialization.
Awning means a roof like cover (such as canvas or nylon) which projects from
the wall of a building and is supported by cantilevering or bracketing from the
face of the building.
Balcony means an upper story platform extending out from a building and having
a balustrude, railing, or other guard.
 
Basement means that portion of a building partly underground, but having less
than one-half of its clear height below the average lot grade.
Berm means an earth form which provides screening from adjoining land-uses or
to improve aesthetic character.
Block means a tract of land bounded by streets (excluding alleys), or by a
combination of such streets, public parks and corporate boundary lines of the
City of Oakwood.
Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA) means the Board of Zoning Appeals of the City of
Oakwood.
Breezeway means a roofed, open sided passageway connecting two structures, such
as a house and a garage. A breezeway is considered part of a principal
structure.
Buildable Area is the area of the lot remaining after the minimum open space,
setback and yard requirements of this Ordinance have been complied with.
Building (Attached, Completely Enclosed, Detached, Height, Principal and
Residential means:
   A.   "Building" means any structure built for the support, shelter or
enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or movable property of any kind, and
which is permanently affixed to the land, and includes those buildings resting
on runners or similar supports and not intended for relocation.
   B.   "Building Attached" means any building which is permanently connected
to another building, having one or more walls in common with other buildings.
   C.   "Completely Enclosed Building" means a building separated on all sides
from the adjacent open space, or from other buildings or other structures, by a
permanent roof and by exterior walls or party walls, pierced only by windows
and normal entrance or exit doors.
   D.   "Detached Building" means a building surrounded by an open space on the
same lot.
   E.   "Building Height" means the vertical distance from the finished lot
grade (mean elevation) at the front of the building, to the highest point of:
      1)   the underside of the ceiling beams, in the case of a flat roof;
      2)   to the deck line of a mansard roof: and
      3)   to the mean level of the underside of the rafters between the eaves
and the ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel roof.
 
[Image]
    F.   "Principal Building" means a non-accessory building in which the
principal use of the lot on which it is located is conducted. If a building
that would otherwise be deemed accessory is connected to a principal building
by a breezeway or by a common roof, it shall be deemed to have become a part of
the "principal building."
 
[Image]
   G.   "Residential Building" means a building which is arranged, designed,
used or intended to be used for residential occupancy by one or more families
or persons and which includes, but is not limited to, the following types:
      1.   Single family dwellings;
      2.   Two family dwellings; and
      3.   Multiple-family dwellings.
Building Permit is a document issued by the Building Commissioner which
authorizes performance of an activity which is subject to various Oakwood
zoning, building, and related codes.
Bulk is the term used to indicate the size and setbacks of buildings or
structures and the location of same with respect to one another, and includes
the following:
   A.   Size and height of buildings;
   B.   Gross floor area of buildings in relation to lot area (floor area
ratio);
   C.   All open spaces allocated to buildings; and
   D.   Amount of lot area provided per dwelling unit.
Building, Temporary is any building not permanently affixed to the land by
reason of a permanent foundation. Temporary buildings commonly include
accessory structures such as tool sheds and play structures,
Business or the words "business establishment" or "commerce" when used in this
Ordinance means the engaging in the purchase, sale, barter, or exchange of
goods, wares, or merchandise, including services; and the maintenance or
operation of offices or recreational or amusement enterprises.
Business District Design Guidelines means any development and improvement
guidelines for the City's business districts, as duly adopted by the City
Council.
Caliper means the diameter of a tree trunk as measured six (6) inches above
ground level.
Canopy means a rooflike structure projecting from a wall and supported in whole
or in part by vertical supports to the ground, and erected primarily to provide
shelter from the weather.
Carport is an open-sided, attached roofed automobile shelter, formed by
extension of the roof from the side of a principal building or represents a
free-standing open-sided structure.
Car Wash (vehicle laundry) is a building, or portion thereof, containing
facilities for washing one or more automobiles at any one time, using
production line methods with a chain conveyer, blower, steam cleaning device,
or other mechanical devices; or providing space, water, equipment, or soap for
the complete or partial hand-washing of such automobiles, whether by operator
or by customer.
Cellar means an occupied portion of a building partly underground and having
one-half or more of its clear height below the average lot grade. For the
purpose of this Ordinance, a cellar shall not be considered a story.
Cemetery is land used or intended to be used for the burial of human dead, and
is dedicated for cemetery purposes, including crematories, mausoleums,
crematorium columbaria, chapels and mortuaries if operated in connection with
and within the boundaries of such cemetery.
Certificate, Occupancy refers to the written approval of the Building
Commissioner certifying that the building or structure, as constructed meeting
the minimum requirements for occupancy set forth under the Municipal Code of
the City of Oakwood and this ordinance.
 
Certificate, Zoning refers to the written approval of the Building Commissioner
certifying that the applicant's plans and drawings comply with all applicable
provisions of this Ordinance. The "zoning certificate" may consist of a
standardized independent form bearing the signature of the Building
Commissioner or it may be represented as a part of the building permit
application.
Child Day Care means administering to the needs of infants, toddlers, pre-
school children and school children outside of school hours, by persons other
than their parents or guardians, custodians, or relatives by blood, marriage or
adoption, for any part of the twenty-four hour day in a place or residence
other than the child's own home.
   A.   "Type B Family Day Care Home" and "Type B Home" mean a permanent
residence of the person who provides child day care for one (1) to six (6)
children at one time and in which no more than three (3) children are under two
(2) years of age at the same time. In counting the number of children under
this definition, any under six (6) years of age who are related to the provider
and who are on the residence premises of the provider must be included. This
definition of a Type B Day Care Home is intended to be identical to that set
forth in Section 5104.01 of the Revised Code of Ohio. It does not include a
residence in which all of the children are being cared for live on the premises
and are siblings of the same immediate family, nor does it include a nursery
school or preschool.
   B.   Child Day Care Centers and "Center" mean an approved place in which
child day care or publicly funded day care is provided for thirteen (13) or
more children at one time. Those same terms also mean any place (not the
permanent residence of the licensee or administrator) in which child day care
or publicly funded child day care is provided for seven (7) to twelve (12) at
one time. In counting children for this purpose, any under six (6) years of age
who are related to a licensee, administrator or employee and who are on the
premises of the center must be included. Such a Center includes a preschool for
children three (3) through five (5) years of age, but not yet enrolled or
eligible to be enrolled in a grade of kindergarten or above. This definition of
a Child Day Care Center is intended to incorporate all provisions of the
definition of such a facility as contained in state statute 5104.01.
Church is a building primarily used for religious worship. The word "church"
shall include, but is not limited to, chapel, temple, synagogue or mosque.
City means the City of Oakwood, Montgomery County, Ohio.
City Council means the City Council of the City of Oakwood, Ohio.
Clinic, Medical or Dental means an organization of specializing physicians or
dentists, or both, who have their offices in a common building. A clinic
includes laboratory facilities in conjunction with normal diagnostic and
treatment services, but shall not include inpatient care.
Club or Lodge, Private is an association of persons, who are bona fide members
paying dues, which owns, hires, or leases a building, or portion thereof; the
use of such premises being restricted to members and their guests. The affairs
and management of such "private clubs or lodge" are conducted by a board of
directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by the members. It shall
be permissible to serve food, meals and beverages on such premises, provided
health and building codes and this Ordinance are met.
Co-Location means the use of a wireless telecommunication facility by more than
one wireless telecommunications provider.
Commercial Use is an activity carried out for pecuniary gain.
 
Common Elements means land amenities, parts of buildings, central services and
utilities and any other elements and facilities owned and used by all unit
owners and designated in the master deed as common elements.
Communications Tower, Radio or Television is a structure attached to a building
or a detached structure affixed to the ground, used in the transmission,
relaying or receiving of electromagnetic waves or signals. (See also "Antenna")
Comprehensive Plan means the Official Comprehensive Plan of the City of Oakwood
adopted by the City Council as amended from time to time.
Condominium is an association of co-owners in which individual owners hold
title exclusively in their unit and are co-owners of the common elements. The
association of co-owners has responsibility for control and maintenance of
common elements.
Conforming Building, Structure of Use means any building, structure or use
which complies with all regulations of this Ordinance or of any amendment
hereto governing bulk for the zoning district in which such building, structure
or use is located.
Conservation means the protection and care which prevent destruction or
deterioration of historical or otherwise significant structures, buildings or
natural resources.
Contiguous (See adjacent).
Cultural Facility is a structure in which its use is devoted primarily to the
appreciation of the arts.
Curb means a stone or concrete boundary usually marking the edge of a roadway
or paved area.
Curb Cut means an opening along a curb line at which point vehicles may enter
or leave a roadway.
Curb Level means for any building, the level of the established curb in front
of such building measured at the center of such front. Where no curb elevation
has been established, the mean elevation of the finished lot grade immediately
adjacent to a building shall be considered the "curb level."
Deck means an open-sided, above the surface/grade of a lot without roof which
covers the vegetation and the ground underneath with concrete, wood, stone,
gravel, or any other nonliving building material.
Decibel is a unit of measurement of the intensity (loudness) of sound. Sound
level meters which are employed to measure the intensity of sound are
calibrated in "decibels."
Dedication is the gift or donation of property by its owner to another party.
Deed is a legal document conveying ownership of real property.
Delicatessen is an establishment wherein food is prepared either ready-to-eat
on premises, or in a form to be prepared for consumption in other locations. A
delicatessen is distinguished from a restaurant, food store or grocery store by
its mix of specialty foods and products, mostly perishable and its small
physical size. Delicatessens shall meet the design and performance standards
identified in Section 901.12.
 
De Minimis Quantity means a specified amount of regulated substances, expressed
in gallons and/or pounds, that is excluded from the provisions of the Wellhead
Operation District (sometimes referred to as the WF District) and the Well
Field Protection Overlay District (sometimes referred to as the WP District)
regulations. Any use of regulated substances in excess of the de minimis
quantities and not explicitly subject to exclusion is considered in violation
of this Ordinance.
Density means the number of living units per gross acre.
Density, Gross means the numerical value obtained by dividing the area of the
lot by the total number of dwelling units.
Density, Net means the numerical value obtained by dividing the total lot area
by the number of dwelling units, after excluding lot area intended to be
dedicated or occupied by public and private streets and other improvements,
including but not limited to common open space areas and associated
recreational facilities.
Detention Basin or Pond is a storage facility for the temporary storage of
storm water runoff.
Developer means the legal or beneficial owner or owners of any lot or land
included in a proposed development, including the holder of any option or
contract to purchase or any person with beneficial interest in a land trust, or
other persons having enforceable proprietary interest in such land.
Development means the division of land into two or more parcels, or the
construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation, or
enlargement of any structure, or land excavation or grading, and any use or the
extension of use of the land.
Direct Recharge Area means that portion of a drainage basin in which water
infiltrating vertically from the surface will intercept the water table.
District is a portion of the corporate area of the City within which certain
uniform regulations and requirements, or various combinations thereof, apply
under the provisions of this Ordinance.
Driveway is a hard-surfaced area paved with a bituminous, concrete, brick
paving or other approved surface (in accord with Title 11, Off-Street Parking
and Loading) on a zoning lot upon which vehicles are driven or parked, and
which provides access to parking spaces or garages.
Drive-Through Facility means a vehicle lane which provides access to a building
for purposes of purchase of goods and services directly from a vehicle.
Dwelling (Attached, Efficiency Detached, Single Family, Two Family, Multiple
Family) means:
   A.   "Dwelling" means a principal building, or portion thereof, but not a
mobile home or house trailer, designed or used exclusively for residential
occupancy. For purposes of this definition, a principal building or portion
thereof is "designed or used exclusively for residential occupancy" if it is
located in a residential zoning district and consists of one or more Dwelling
Units.
   B.   "Attached Dwelling" means one which is joined to another Dwelling at
one or more sides by a party wall or walls or by some other connection.
    C.   "Detached Dwelling" means one which is not joined or connected to
another Dwelling on any side.
   D.   "Efficiency unit" means a Dwelling Unit consisting of one principal
room exclusive of bathroom, kitchen, hallway, closets, or dining alcove
directly off the principal room, provided such dining alcove complies with
occupancy permit requirements.
   E.   "Single Family Dwelling" means a building containing one Dwelling Unit
only.
   F.   "Two Family Dwelling" means a building containing two Attached Dwelling
Units.
   G.   "Multiple-Family Dwelling" means a building, or portion thereof,
containing three or more Attached Dwelling Units.
Dwelling Unit means one or more rooms which are arranged, designed or used as
living quarters for one Family only. For purposes of this definition, a room or
rooms are "arranged, designed or used as living quarters for one Family only"
if they include individual bathrooms, sleeping and kitchen facilities and are
wholly enclosed within exterior walls and/or one or more party wall so as to be
a self-contained unit. Examples of a "Dwelling Unit" include, but are not
limited to: a Detached home; one side of a duplex or Two Family Dwelling; or
one apartment in a Multi-Family Dwelling.
Easement is land or an interest in land which has been designated by lawful
agreement between the owner or owners of such land and another person or
persons, for a specified use only by such person or persons.
Emergency means a reasonably unforeseen occurrence with a potential to endanger
personal safety or health, or cause substantial damage to property, that calls
for immediate action.
Engineer means any registered professional engineer licensed by the State of
Ohio.
Equipment Shelter means the structure in which the electronic receiving and
relay equipment for a wireless telecommunications facility is housed.
Establishment, Business see "business"
Exterior Building Component means an essential and visible part of the exterior
of the building.
FAA means the Federal Aviation Administration and any legally appointed,
designated or elected agent or successor.
FCC means the Federal Communications Commission and any legally appointed,
designated or elected agent or successor.
Family means any one of the following:
   A.   A household that is a traditional family, defined as one or more
persons, each related to the other by blood, marriage or adoption, who are
living together in a single family dwelling unit and are maintaining a common
household.
   B.   A household that is the functional equivalent of a traditional family,
as determined pursuant to Section 409.
 
A "Family" also includes any domestic servants, nanny, au pair, or other worker
on the property to the extent such persons live on the property and meet the
definition of "persons employed on the premises" as set forth under this Title.
Fence or wall is a structure which is used as a boundary or a means of
protection or confinement, or for decorative purposes and which is made of
manufactured or natural material.
 
[Image]
Flood is the condition existing when the waters of any watercourse, pond, or
depressions temporarily rise to a height above their normal levels and overflow
the boundaries within which they are ordinarily contained. It also includes the
unusual rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters.
Floor Area Ratio (F.A.R.) of the building or buildings on any zoning lot means
the floor area of the building or buildings on that zoning lot divided by the
area of such zoning lot, or, in the case of Planned Developments, by the net
site area. The "floor area ratio" requirements, as set forth under each zoning
district, shall determine the maximum floor area allowable for the building or
buildings (total floor area of both principal and accessory buildings) in
direct ratio to the gross area of the zoning lot.
Floor Area (For Determining Floor Area Ratio) means:
   A.   For the purposes of determining the floor area ratio, the "floor area"
of a building means the sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors
of the building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from
the center line of walls separating two buildings. The "floor area" of a
building includes basement floor area, elevator shafts and stairwells at each
floor, penthouse, attic space having headroom of seven (7) feet or more,
interior balconies and mezzanines, enclosed porches, floor area devoted to
accessory uses, and floor space used for mechanical equipment (except
equipment, open or enclosed, located on the roof). However, any space devoted
to off-street parking or loading shall not be included in "floor area."
   B.   The "floor area" of structures devoted to bulk storage of materials
shall be determined on the basis of height in feet, i.e., ten (10) feet in
height equals one floor.
Floor Area (For Determining Off-Street and Loading Requirements) means:
   A.   "Floor area," when prescribed as the basis of measurement for off-
street parking spaces and loading berths for any use, means the sum of the
gross horizontal areas of the several floors of the building, or portion
thereof, devoted to such use, including any basement or cellar floor area that
is at least seven and one-half (7 ½) feet in height.
 
[Image]
   B.   However, "floor area," for the purposes of measurement for off-street
parking and loading spaces does not include floor area devoted to off-street
parking or loading facilities including its aisles, ramps and maneuvering
space, nor does it include basement or cellar floor area less than seven and
one-half (7 ½) feet in height.
Foot Candle is a unit of illumination equal to the light flux which falls on a
one (1) square foot area one (1) foot distant from a light source of one (1)
candle power.
Frontage means the length of all the property fronting on one side of a street
between the two nearest intersecting streets, measured along the line of the
street, or if a dead end, then all of the property abutting on one side between
an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
Frontage Road means a public or private street, closely paralleling a larger
public street, which provides the primary means of access across from adjacent
property to the larger street.
Frontage, Zoning Lot means the length of all the property of such zoning lot
fronting on a street, measured between side lot lines.
   Garage (Private, Public, or Commercial) means:
   A.   "Private garage" means an accessory building used for the storage of
passenger automobiles and for not more than one truck rated for not over one
and one-half (1 and1/2) ton load carrying capacity, and in which no occupation,
business or service is carried on.
   B.   "Public or commercial garage" means a building or part of a building or
space used for business or commercial storage purposes.
Grade, Existing means the average or mean elevation of a parcel, lot or tract
of land prior to commitment of development activity.
Grade, Finished means the average level of the finished surface of the ground
adjacent to the exterior walls of the building or structure.
Guest House means a detached accessory building located on the same zoning lot
as the principal building and containing living quarters for temporary
gratuitous guests, such quarters shall not be occupied by the same person or
persons for more than three consecutive months or for more than three months in
any calendar year, nor shall such guest houses be used for rental occupancy.
Home Occupation means any occupation, activity or profession carried on by
members of the immediate family residing on the premises which is clearly
secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes. This definition
excludes Child Day Care Homes as defined in this Title. (standards for home
occupations are included in Title 9, Design and Performance Standards.
Hot Tub means a recreational bathing facility which is intended to utilize
heated water for the comfort or therapeutic benefits of its occupants.
Hotel means an establishment which is open to transient guests, in
contradiction to a boarding or rooming house, and is commonly known as a hotel
in the community in which it is located and which provides customary hotel
services.
House Trailer means a trailer or other vehicle designed and constructed for
living or sleeping purposes, but shall not be considered a dwelling. The term
"house trailer" includes mobile home.
 
Impervious Surface means any material that substantially reduces or prevents
the infiltration of storm water into previously undeveloped land. Impervious
surfaces shall include "paved" surfaces such as gravel, stone asphalt, concrete
or brick surfaces, driveways and parking areas, as well as buildings and
structures.
 
[Image]
Improvement means any man-made, immovable item which becomes part of, placed
upon, or is affixed to, real estate.
Incompatible Use means a use or service which is incapable of direct
association with certain other uses because it is contradictory, incongruous or
discordant.
Kennel means:
   A.   A kennel shall be deemed to exist on any zoning lot on which more than
a total of four kennel pets over four months of age are kept. Kennel pets are
hereby defined as dogs and cats.
   B.   In addition, a kennel shall be deemed to exist on any zoning lot upon
which ten or more such kennel pets are being or have been raised or kept for
sale during any calendar year, regardless of the age of those kennel pets.
Kennels are not included as permitted principal or accessory uses in any
residential zoning districts and so are not allowed in those districts.
Laboratory, Medical or Dental means a building or room in which tests,
diagnoses, research and similar activities in support of medical and dental
services take place.
Land Use means a description of how land is occupied or utilized.
Landscape Material includes such living materials as trees, shrubs, ground
cover, vines, turf grasses, and non-living materials such as rocks, pebbles,
sand, bark, brick pavers, earthen mounds (excluding pavement), and other items
of a decorative or embellishment nature such as fountains, pools, walls,
fencing, sculpture, etc.
Landscaped Open Space means that part of the gross land area in open space
which is free of streets, structures, or parking areas and provided to improve
the drainage, microclimate and aesthetics of the site. Such areas are usually
landscaped and appropriately located to achieve maximum effect and appeal.
Typically, such space includes lawn areas, shrubs and trees, walkways, paved
terraces, sitting areas, courts or plazas, and outdoor recreational areas.
Unpaved land areas within private or public street rights-of-way are not
counted as landscaped open space unless they are in excess of minimum right-of-
way standards.
 
Landscape Plan is the graphical depiction of the location and arrangement of
existing and proposed plant material and land forms on a zoning lot in
conformance with the requirements of this Ordinance.
Landscaping means the bringing of the soil surface to a smooth finished grade
and installation of sufficient amount and variety of plant material to soften
building lines, provide shade and generally produce a pleasing visual effect on
the premises.
 
[Image]
Loading Berth is the space planned for or used by a vehicle being loaded or
unloaded.
 
Lodging Room (or rooming house) means a room rented as sleeping and living
quarters, but without cooking facilities and with or without an individual
bathroom. In a suite of rooms without cooking facilities, each room which
provides sleeping accommodations must be counted as one "lodging room" for the
purposes of this Ordinance.
Lot (Record, Through, Corner, Interior, Reversed Corner, Through) means:
A.   "Lot" means a zoning lot, except as the context shall indicate a lot of
record, in which case a "lot" is a lot of record. A "zoning lot" also means any
contiguous lots of record or tracts of land required by this Ordinance to be
combined into such a unit as the site of an existing or proposed structure, and
also includes any such lots of record and tracts of land so combined and used
as such a unit, whether or not the combination was required or was designated
in the application for a building permit.
 
[Image]
   B.   "Lot of record" means a lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of
which has been recorded in the office of the Recorder of Montgomery County, or
means a parcel of land with the deed to which having been recorded in the
office of such Recorder prior to the adoption of this Ordinance. Every lot of
record must abut upon and have permanent access to a public street.
   C.   "Zoning lot or lots" means one or more contiguous tracts of land
located within a single block, which (at the time of application for a building
permit) is or was designated in that application or accompanying documents by
its owner or developer as the tract to be used, developed or built upon as a
unit, under single ownership or control as the site for the structure to be
built under that building permit. Therefore, "zoning lot or lots" may or may
not coincide with a lot of record. Any division or part of a zoning lot will
constitute a subdivision under the subdivision regulations of this City. Every
zoning lot must abut upon and have permanent access to a public street or may
abut upon and have access to a private street subject to improvement standards
specified under Title 9, Development and Performance Standards.
    D.   "Corner lot" means a lot abutting on two streets at their
intersection.
   E.   "Interior lot" means a lot other than a corner or reversed corner lot.
   F.   "Reversed Corner lot" means a corner lot, in which the side lot line
(along the corner side yard) intersects with the front yard line of the
adjoining lot.
 
[Image]
   G.   "Through lot" means a lot having a pair of opposite lot lines along two
more or less parallel public streets, excluding alleys. On a "through lot" both
street lines shall be deemed front lot lines except as follows:
      1.   For purposes of determining whether or not accessory buildings or
uses or other forms of obstruction may be located on a "through lot," the owner
of that lot may select (by a signed document delivered to the City) which area
is to be his front yard, as long as that area complies with front yard
measurements required by the zoning district.
      2.   After such selection, the opposing yard shall be deemed to be a rear
yard for purposes of accessory uses, etc., although the yard measurements and
setback requirements shall still be established as though it were a front yard.
      3.   Where more than one through lot exists side-by-side, the front yard
shall be that established by the adjoining through lot, if developed.
Lot Area, Gross means the area of a horizontal plain bounded by the front, side
and rear lot lines.
Lot Coverage means that area or portion of a lot occupied by all buildings,
structures, and other impervious surfaces.
Lot Depth means the distance measured in the mean direction of the side lot
lines from the midpoint or front lot line to the opposite main rear line of the
lot.
Lot Width means the mean width of the lot measured at right angles to its
depth.
 
[Image]
 
   Lot Lines are the lines bounding a lot as defined herein.
   Lot Line (Front Rear, and Side) means:
   A.   "Front lot line" means that boundary of a lot which is along a
dedicated public street, or which is along an easement or right-of-way for a
public or a private street. On a corner lot, the front lot line (and therefore
the front yard) shall be deemed to be that which causes the yards and other
measurements on the property to be conforming or closest to conforming. The
owner of a corner lot, for purposes of selecting a post office address, may
select either street as the address of that property, but that shall not affect
which is the front lot line.
   B.   "Rear lot line" means that lot line which is generally opposing the
front lot line. If the rear lot line is less than thirty (30) feet in length,
or if the lot comes to a point in the rear, the rear lot line means a line
parallel to the front lot line, having a length of not more than one- half the
length of the existing front lot line; but in no case shall the length of such
rear lot line be less than thirty (30) feet long, lying wholly within the lot
and at the farthest point from the front lot line.
   C.   “Side lot line" means any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot
line or a rear lot line.
Marquee means a roof-like structure of a permanent nature which projects from
the wall of a building.
Median is a raised portion of a street separating the opposing traffic flows.
Mezzanine means an intermediate or fractional story between the floor and
ceiling of a main story, used for a purpose accessory to the principal use.
Normally, a mezzanine is just above the ground or main floor, extending over
only part of the main floor.
Monopole means a support structure constructed to a single, self-supporting
hollow metal tube securely anchored to a foundation.
 
   Motor Vehicle shall be defined in Ohio R. C. 4501.01.
Net Site Area means the land area of a lot or tract remaining after subtraction
of all public street and alley rights-of-way as required by this Ordinance.
Nier means non-ionizing electromagnetic radiation (i.e., electromagnetic
radiation primarily in the visible, infrared, and radio frequency portions of
the electromagnetic spectrum).
Nonconforming Building or Structure means any building or structure which was
legally constructed, but does not comply with all of the regulations of this
Ordinance or of any amendment hereto for the zoning district in which such
building or structure is located.
Nonconforming Use means any use of land, lawful at the time of the enactment of
this Ordinance which does not comply with all of the regulations of this
Ordinance or of any amendment hereto governing use for the zoning district in
which such use is located.
Non-profit is a bona fide tax exempt entity such as organizations classed under
501 (c) (3) of the internal revenue code.
Non-Routine Maintenance or Repair means activities necessary not more
frequently than every twenty-four (24) months to keep structures and equipment
in good repair.
Noxious Matter is matter which is capable of causing injury or illness to
living organisms, or is capable of causing detrimental effects to the health or
the psychological, social, or economic well-being of humans.
Nursery School or Preschool means an enrichment program for children in a
limited age range, usually three (3) to six (6) years of age, with planned
curriculum and defined time frame. It does not include a full range of
custodial and care services otherwise commonly required by children of this age
in any twenty four (24) hour period.
Obstruction means an obstacle that tends to block or interfere with the act of
walking across the surface of the zoning lot, whether or not the obstacle is
attached to the ground.
Office includes those which are limited to the administrative functions of
businesses, such as the processing of papers, computer records, telephone calls
and face-to-face discussions, as opposed to retail sales or other non-
administrative functions.
Off-Street Parking Space means an accessible area reserved exclusively for
storage of one motor vehicle, is located either within a structure or in the
open, and complies with the applicable provisions of Title 11.
One Year Capture Area means the area around protected public water supply well
fields delineated by the one (1) year travel time contour.
Open Space means space which is not used for development, including paving and
parking areas. Open space may include public and private open space areas.
Open Space, Usable means land which is free of buildings, structures, and other
substantial improvements. The following examples are listed by way of
illustration to indicate what may be counted as usable open space within this
definition: outdoor swimming pools, swimming pool areas, hard surface
recreational areas, and other recreational areas, provided these areas are
unenclosed except for fences, canopies, bath houses, or other minor structures.
The following examples are listed by way of illustration to indicate what may
not be counted as usable open space within this definition: a) roofs; b) open
parking areas; c) parking structures; and d) road rights-of-way.
Outdoor Storage is the keeping in an unroofed area of any goods, material,
merchandise or vehicles in the same place for more than twenty-four (24) hours.
Overlay District means a district which acts in conjunction with the underlying
zoning district or districts.
Parking Lot is an unenclosed off-street paved area, containing four or more
parking spaces and associated aisles.
Parking Structure means a structure for the parking of private motor vehicles
either above or below ground, or an unenclosed parking area on top of a
structure.
Parkway means that portion of a public street right-of-way on either side of an
improved public street lying between the back-of-curb or the edge of pavement
and the closest edge of sidewalk pavement or the right-of-way line.
Patio means an open-sided, ground-level improvement of the surface of a lot
with or without a roof which covers the vegetation and ground with concrete,
wood, stone, gravel, or any other nonliving building material which is usually
directly attached to a building
Performance Standard is a criterion or measurement, whether quantitative or
qualitative.
Permanently Affixed refers to buildings, structures, appurtenances or
improvements designed and installed in a manner not intended to be moved or
removed.
Person means any natural person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
or other legal entity, private or public, whether for profit or not for profit.
Personal Service Businesses means excluding offices of physicians and dentists,
and excluding uses falling within any more specific use category, personal
service businesses are those establishments engaged in providing services
involving the personal care of a person or involving the care of personal goods
or apparel. Such establishments include: clothing rental establishments;
laundries (excluding dry cleaners); nail care establishments; hair removal
establishments; hair care and styling establishments; electrolysis
establishments; establishments providing facials, body treatments or make-up
application; establishments providing tattoos or piercings; steam or sauna
facilities; body massage establishments; leather or handbag repair
establishments; tailors or seamstresses; and toning or tanning establishments.
Persons employed on the Premises means:
   A.   A phrase used in the definition of "family". It means those domestic
servants or workers (such as a maid, gardener, cook, chauffeur, butler, etc.)
who live on the property and whose primary employment is service to the family
which resides on the premises and/or maintenance of such premises. For the
purpose of this definition, "primary employment" means that the person employed
on the premises meets at least two of the following three tests:
      1.   The person devotes an average of eighty (80) percent of his or her
working hours per week to such employment over the period of such employment.
      2.   The person spends an average of thirty-five (35) hours per week
working at such employment over the period of such employment.
       3.   The person's average income per week from such employment over the
period of such employment is more than fifty (50) percent of the person's
average total income per week from employment, business or any profession over
the period of such employment.
   B.   For the purposes of subsections 1, 2 and 3 above, the period of
employment must not be greater than fifty two (52) consecutive weeks; if a
person has been employed for more than fifty two (52) consecutive weeks, then
the period of employment shall be the most recent fifty two (52) consecutive
weeks of employment.
   C.   If the person who alleges to be employed on the premises is paying
monetary rent in any amount to the owner or occupier of the premises, it will
be presumed conclusively that the person's "primary employment" is elsewhere.
Pet Grooming Studio means a business use consisting of domestic house pet
grooming and substantially related services, where at least sixty percent (60%)
of the floor area of the studio is devoted to retail use for the sale of pet
supplies and related merchandise, and where no animal is kept or boarded on the
premises overnight. (Ord. 4702, passed 6/21/10).
Planning Commission means the Planning Commission of the City of Oakwood, Ohio
Plan, Conceptual is a plan that sets forth the basic concepts for development
of a tract of land. This plan can be of a general nature or outline and need
not propose definite locations of buildings, facilities, and uses.
Plan, Final is a plan showing the definite proposed location of buildings,
facilities, landscaping, and uses upon a tract of land. This plan is usually
the one for actual development of the land and, if approved by the City, is
binding upon the land, and the owner of the land.
Plan, Preliminary is a plan showing the tentative arrangement of buildings,
facilities, landscaping, and uses upon a tract of land.
Plan, Site Development is a plan prepared to scale, showing accurately and with
complete dimensioning, a development or use proposal containing all mapping
elements required in this Ordinance.
Planned Development means a tract of land which contains or will contain two or
more principal buildings, developed under unit ownership or control, and is
based upon a plan which allows for flexibility of design not available under
normal zoning district requirements. When a building is divided into separate
parts by unpierced fire walls rated at least two hours fire retardant or party
walls rated at least two hours fire retardant, extending from below the lowest
floor level in a basement or subbasement up to the roof, each part so
completely separated shall be deemed to be an independent, although attached
building.
Play structure means an accessory structure designed, intended and used for the
amusement and recreation of children and must not be used for living, business
or storage purposes.
Porch, Enclosed means a platform, projecting from the wall of a building with
direct access to or from a building, which includes a roof or roof-like
structure and is enclosed by transparent or nontransparent materials on all
sides of the porch structure extended from the building.
Porch, Open means a roofed, open-sided room attached to a principal structure.
If the sides are enclosed, the area will no longer be a "porch" or "open
porch," but instead must be deemed a part of the principal building.
Potable Water means water that is satisfactory for drinking, culinary and
domestic purposes, meeting current drinking water standards.
Property Lines means the lines bounding a zoning lot, as defined herein.
 
Property Owner means any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation
or corporations, or any other entity having a proprietary interest in the land
on which a building permit has been requested.
Protected Public Water Supply means a public water system which services at
least fifteen (15) service connections used by year-round residents or
regularly serves at least twenty-five (25) year-round residents, and having a
(1) year capture area defined through appropriate hydrologic studies.
Public Hearing is a meeting announced and advertised in advance which is open
to the public, with the public given an opportunity to speak and participate.
Public Notice is an advertisement of a public hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation in the area, or through other media sources, indicating the date,
time, place and nature of the public hearing.
Public Owned Real Property means all real property and facilities owned by the
City.
Public Utility means a service and its related facilities which ostensibly
provides for the benefit of the general public utility services including, but
not limited to: water, sanitary sewer, storm sewers, electrical, telephone,
natural gas and related utilities.
Public Way means any sidewalk, street, alley, highway or other public
thoroughfare.
Recharge Lagoon means a body of water designed and maintained by man to add
water to the groundwater at a rate greater than that occurring naturally.
Recreational Vehicle is any camping trailer, motor home, mini-motor home,
travel trailer, truck camper or van camper and any towed recreational
equipment, including the trailers for same such as boats, snowmobiles and
motorcycles used privately for recreational purposes and not used commercially.
Regulated Substances means chemicals and mixtures of chemicals which are health
hazards, except that materials packaged for personal or household use as food
or drink for man or other animals are not regulated substances. Regulated
substances include:
A.   Chemicals for which there is scientific evidence that acute or chronic
health effects may result from exposure including carcinogens, toxic and highly
toxic agents, reproductive toxins, irritants, corrosives, sensitizers,
hepatotoxins, nephrotoxins, neurotoxins, agents which act on the hematopoietic
system, and agents which damage the lungs, skin, eyes, or mucous membranes.
B.   Mixtures of chemicals which have been tested as a whole and have been
determined to be a health hazard.
C.   Mixtures of chemicals which have not been tested as a whole, but which
contain any chemical which has been determined to be a health hazard and which
comprises one (1.0) percent or greater of the composition on a weight per unit
weight basis, and mixtures of chemicals which include a carcinogen if the
concentration of the carcinogen in the mixture is one tenth of one (0.1)
percent or greater of the composition on a weight per unit weight basis.
D.   Ingredients of mixtures prepared within the WO or WF District in cases
where such ingredients are health hazards but comprise less than one tenth of
one (0.1) percent of the mixture on a weight per unit weight basis if
carcinogenic, or less than one (1.0) percent of the mixture on a weight per
unit weight basis if non-carcinogenic.
       E.   Petroleum and non-solid petroleum derivatives (except non-PCB
dielectric fluids).
Related Equipment means all equipment ancillary to the transmission and
reception of voice and data via radio frequencies. Such equipment may include,
but is not limited to: cable, conduit and connectors.
Reservoir Parking facilities means those off-street parking spaces allocated to
automobiles awaiting entrance to a particular establishment.
Restroom Facilities, Temporary Outdoor means a portable structure that is
manufactured, designed, marketed, and proportioned for fully-enclosed,
temporary, outdoor bathroom use by one person at a time. Such structures are
typically mounted on runners or skids, or placed directly on the land without
footers, and used on construction sites or for temporary outdoor events.
Rest Home (Nursing Home) The State of Ohio defines a "rest home" in Section
3721.01 of the Ohio Revised Code, but the City of Oakwood has its own separate
and distinct definition which is set forth below. The City definition includes
some of the provisions of state statutes which describe a "rest home," but the
City definition set forth below lists a number of other requirements which must
be met to qualify as the type of rest home which may be allowed in multi-use
special planning districts.
A.   Accommodations for seventeen (17) or more unrelated individuals,
supervision and personal care services for three (3) or more of those
individuals who are dependent on the services of others by reason of age,
physical or mental impairment or (in the case of a rest home component of the
home for the aging) accommodations for three (3) or more individuals and
supervision and personal care services for at least three (3) of those
individuals.
B.   Accommodations for three (3) or more unrelated persons plus supervision
and personal care services for at least three (3) of those individuals who are
dependent on the services of others by reason of age, physical or mental
impairment, plus supervision of special diets or administration of medication
to at least one of those individuals. (The personal care services referred to
in this and the preceding paragraph are as defined in R.C. 3721.01.)
   A rest home does not mean and does not include either a nursing home or a
home for the aging, those terms being defined in R.C. 3721.01 as facilities
that provide "skilled nursing care."
   The same statutory section states that "home" does not mean any of the
following types of group living facilities, and so this use for a rest home
does not include and does not permit the living arrangements listed below:
      1.   A residential facility described in R.C. 5123.19 for developmentally
disabled persons;
      2.   A habitation center as defined in R.C. 5111.04(1);
      3.   A residential facility for mentally ill as defined in R.C. 5119.22;
      4.   A community alternative home as defined in R.C. 3724.01;
      5.   An adult care facility as defined in R.C. 3722.01;
      6.   An alcohol or drug addiction program as defined in R.C. 3793.01;
      7.   A facility licensed to provide methadone treatment under R.C.
3793.11;
      8.   A facility providing services under contract with the Ohio
department of mental retardation and developmental disabilities under R.C.
5123.18;
      9.   A hospice care facility licensed under R.C. 3712.04;
      10.   Nor, until January 1, 1994, the portion of a facility in which care
is provided exclusively to members of a religious order, that facility being
owned by or part of a non-profit institution of higher education which awards
degrees under R.C. 1713.
 
Restaurant is an establishment wherein food is prepared and served in ready-to-
eat form to the public for human consumption. "Restaurant" includes cafe,
cafeteria, grill, pizza parlor, diner, snack shop, hamburger shop and steak
house and similar establishments.
Retention Basin or Pond is a storage facility for permanent storage of water,
often storm water runoff.
School means any building or portion thereof, which offers educational
instruction in any branch of knowledge or study.
Senior Citizen means any person 62 years of age or older.
Senior Citizen Housing is housing designed for and intended to be used
exclusively for housing for persons sixty two (62) years of age or older or
families of two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage or operation of
law, one member of which is sixty two (62) years of age or older.
Setback means the minimum horizontal distance between the front, corner side,
side and rear line of a building or structure and the property line.
Site Development Plan means a scaled drawing or illustration depicting proposed
development and project improvement plans, the content of which meet the
requirements of this Ordinance.
Site development plans are required under certain applications and petitions to
demonstrate conformance with the explicit and implicit requirement of these
regulations. There are two types of site development plan review processes
Minor Site Development Plan Review applies to zoning actions which are
typically less complex in site design and physical improvement descriptions.
The Minor Site Development Plan is required in applications for Conditional
Uses and Variances.
Major Site Development Plan Review The major site development plan approval
process; however, anticipates the potentially large and more complex
development and improvement proposals. Therefore, it is designed for a more
rigorous and careful evaluation of the development proposal. The requirements
apply in petitions for Map Amendments, Special Use Permits, and Planned
Developments. The procedures would also apply in under certain circumstances
where building permits are sought for multiple family residential and non-
residential development projects within the City.
Shed is a detached accessory structure used for the storage of materials whose
use is incidental and subordinate to that of the primary or dominant use of the
principal building or structure.
Sidewalk is that portion of a public right-of-way, easement, or land reserve
which is paved and intended for the use of pedestrian traffic.
Shopping Center means a grouping of compatible business or commercial uses on a
single zoning lot, such uses being in single ownership or under unified
control.
Shrubbery means perennial woody plants of relatively low stature, typically
with several stems arising from or near the ground.
Sign means a name, identification, description, display or illustration which
is affixed to, or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure
or piece of land and which directs attention to an object, product, place,
activity, person, institution, organization or business. However, a "sign" does
not include any display of court or public office notices, nor does it include
the flat, emblem or insignia of a nation, political unit, school or religious
group, nor does it include any school scoreboard for athletic contests to the
extent such a scoreboard is on the school property, located immediately
adjacent to an athletic field, facing inward toward that field, or, if not
facing in that direction, located no closer than one hundred fifty (150) feet
to the nearest property line, has no sign or identification on its backside,
and includes no business advertising or other reference to a business anywhere
on the sign. "Sign" does not include a sign located completely within an
enclosed building unless the context shall so indicate. For various types of
signs, see Title 12.
Special Use (See Use, Special).
Stoop means a small platform (frequently improved with steps) projecting from
the wall of a building to permit direct pedestrian access to a building or
structure.
Storage or Stored is the keeping of items, equipment, vehicles, trailers or
materials for a period of time longer than would be involved in the normal day-
to-day use or consumption of the same.
Story means that part of a building between any floor and the floor next above,
and if there is no floor above, then the ceiling above. A basement is a story
if its ceiling is over seven (7) feet above the level from which the height of
the building is measured, or if it is used for business purposes other than
educational or training facilities, or if it contains any dwelling units other
than one dwelling unit for the caretaker of the premises and other than
dwelling units in connection with educational or training facilities.
Story, Half is that portion of a building under a sloping roof, the wall plates
of which, on at least two opposite exterior walls, are not more than five (5)
feet above the floor of such story.
Street shall be as defined in the Uniform Traffic Act of the Ohio Revised Code.
Structure means an assembly of materials forming a construction for occupancy
or use including, among others, buildings, stadiums, gospel and circus tents,
reviewing stands, platforms, observation towers, radio towers, water tanks,
swimming pools and their enclosures, domes (plastic geodesic, air-supported,
etc.), open sheds, coal bins, shelters, fences and display signs. Whether or
not a particular arrangement of material is attached to the ground or, instead,
is moveable does not affect it being included in this definition, except for
vehicles as defined in the Traffic Code.
Structural Alteration means any change, other than incidental repairs, which
would prolong the life of the supporting members of a building, such as the
addition, removal or alteration of bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or
foundations.
Swimming Pool or wading pool, whether indoors or outdoors and whether above or
below the surface of the ground or both, having an inside wall depth at any
point of more than two (2) feet or a surface area exceeding one hundred fifty
(150) square feet.
Tent means any temporary structure or enclosure, the roof of which and/or one-
half or more of the sides are constructed of silk, cotton, canvas, fabric or a
similar pliable material.
Terrace is a level, unenclosed landscaped and/or surfaced area located at or
above finished grade which is adjacent or attached to a building.
 
Three Point Turn Around - means an improved surfaced area extending off a
driveway, street, or other paved surface which permits a vehicle adequate
turning radius to turn the vehicle around in the opposite direction. (See
illustration below)
 
[Image]
Townhouse (See Dwelling, Attached).
Tower means a self-supporting lattice, guyed, or monopole structure constructed
from grade which supports wireless telecommunications facilities. The term
tower shall not include amateur radio operator's equipment, as licensed by the
FCC.
Toxic Material means any substance (liquid, solid or gaseous) which by reason
of an inherent deleterious property when emitted in an amount injurious to
plants, animals, or human beings.
Trailer means any vehicle, house car, camp car or any portable or mobile
vehicle on wheels, skids, rollers or blocks, either self-propelled or propelled
by any other means, which is used or designed to be used for residential,
living, sleeping, hauling or commercial purposes and herein referred to as a
"trailer."
Travel Time Contour means a locus of points from which water takes an equal
amount of time to reach a given destination such as a well or well field.
Underground Storage Tank means any one or combination of tanks (including
underground pipes connected thereto) which are used to contain an accumulation
of regulated substances and the volume of which (including the volume of
underground pipes connected thereto) is ten (10) percent or more beneath the
surface of the ground. Flow-through process tanks and septic tanks approved by
the City of Oakwood Health Department or Ohio Environmental Protection Agency,
as applicable, are excluded from the definition of underground storage tanks.
Use means the purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
Use (Conditional, Permitted, Principal, and Special) means:
   A.   "Conditional use" means a use that because of its unique
characteristics cannot be classified as a permitted use in any particular
zoning district. If certain standards are met, however, the conditional use
must be granted by the Building Commissioner.
   B.   "Permitted use" means a use which may be lawfully established in a
particular    district or districts, provided it conforms with all
requirements, regulations and standards of such district.
    C.   "Principal use" means the main use of land or buildings as
distinguished from a subordinate or accessory use. A "principal use" may be
"permitted" or "special."
   D.   "Special use" means a use, either public or private, which because of
its unique characteristics, cannot be properly classified as a permitted use in
any particular district or districts. After due consideration, in each case, of
the impact of such use upon neighboring land, such "special use" may or may not
be granted.
Use of property means the purpose or activity for which the land or building
thereon is designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied or
maintained.
Use, Accessory is a use incidental to and subordinate to the principal use. It
must not dominate in area, extent, or purpose to the principal use, building or
structure.
Use, Temporary (or temporary event) means a use that is established for a fixed
period of time with the intent to discontinue such use upon the expiration of
such time and does not involve the construction or alteration of any permanent
structure.
Variance means a Variance from a specific requirement in this Ordinance, as
applied to a specific piece of property, as distinct from a Map Amendment,
Special Use Permit or Conditional Use Permit.
Veterinarian Hospital or Clinic means any building or portion thereof designed
or used for the care, observation, or treatment of domestic animals, excluding
boarding and grooming.
Visibility Triangle means an imaginary triangle formed by the intersection of
any two or more streets. The triangle on each "leg" of each corner of a street
intersection (there are two legs to each corner) is measured twenty five (25)
feet in both directions from the point of intersection along the right-of-way/
property lines formed by the street intersection; the third side, its
hypotenuse. Within the triangle, objects are not to extend any higher than
three (3) feet vertically from the crown of the street to maintain driver
visibility at an intersection.
 
[Image]
   Wall (see Fence)
Warehouse means facilities largely devoted to storage of goods and materials.
Distinguished from industrial in that no manufacturing is involved.
Water Course means any natural or artificial stream, river, creek, ditch,
channel, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine or wash in
which water flows in a definite direction or course, either continuously or
intermittently, and has a definite channel, bed and banks, and includes any
area adjacent thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow or flood
water.
Well Field means a tract of land that contains one or more wells for supplying
water.
Well Field Protection Overlay District means a district defined by the one (1)
year capture area and depicted on the zoning map within which, through
superimposition of a special designation, certain regulations and requirements
apply, in addition to those of the underlying zoning districts to which such
designation is added.
Wellhead Operation District means a district applied to property owned by the
City of Oakwood where municipal water supply wells are located.
Wetlands are swamps or marshes, water courses, drainage tributaries, pools or
ponds in either a perennial or intermittent state.
Wireless Telecommunications Facility means any cables, wires, lines, wave
guides, antennae and any other equipment or facilities associated with the
transmission or reception of communications as authorized by the FCC which a
person seeks to locate or have installed upon a tower antenna support
structure. The term wireless communications facilities do not include:
   A.   Any satellite earth station antenna two (2) meters in diameter or less
which is located in an area zoned business.
   B.   Any satellite earth station antenna one (1) meter or less in diameter,
regardless of zoning district.
   C.   Antennae used by amateur radio operators.
Yard shall mean any portion of a zoning lot, which is unobstructed from the
ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance.
Yard (Front, Rear, Side, Corner Side, Interior Side, and Transitional) means:
   A.   "Yard" means usable open space on the same zoning lot with a building
or structure, unoccupied and unobstructed from its ground level to the sky,
except as expressly permitted by the Codified Ordinances of this City.
 
[Image]
   B.   "Required front yard" means a yard extending along the full width of
the zoning lot, commencing at and following the contour of its front lot line
and extending toward its rear lot line and parallel to the lot depth for the
depth or distance specified in the Yard Requirements section for the zoning
district in which such lot is located. Every such required front yard must have
a minimum width of thirty (30) feet.
   C.   "Required rear yard" means a yard extending along the width of the
zoning lot, (except for that portion defined as a corner side yard), commencing
at and following the contour of its rear lot line and extending toward its
front lot line and parallel to the lot depth for the depth or distance
specified in the yard requirements section for the zoning district in which
such lot is located. Every such required rear yard must have a minimum width of
thirty (30) feet.
   D.   "Required interior side yard" means a yard extending from the end of
the required front yard to the end of the required rear yard (or surplus rear
yard, if one exists), commencing at and following the contour of the side lot
line which adjoins another zoning lot and extending toward the opposing side
lot line and parallel to the lot width for the depth or distance specified in
the yard requirements section for the zoning district in which such lot is
located.
   E.   "Required corner side yard" means a yard extending from the end of the
required front yard to the rear lot line, adjoining a public street or alley,
commencing at and following the contour of the side lot line and extending
toward the opposing side lot line and parallel to the lot width for the depth
or distance specified in the yard requirements section for the zoning district
in which such lot is located.
   F.   "Transitional yard" means that yard which must be provided on a zoning
lot in a Business zoning district, which lot adjoins land in a residential
zoning district.
Zone of Influence means a zone delineated by iso-travel time contours around
well fields. The zone is calculated on the rate of movement of ground waters in
the vicinity of wells with an allowance for the dispersion of a pollutant
entering into and moving with the groundwater.
Zoning District means an area or areas within the City for which the
regulations and requirements governing use, lot and bulk of the buildings and
premises are uniform.
   Zoning Ordinance (This Ordinance) means this zoning ordinance, as amended.
 
TITLE 4. GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 400   Rules of Transition
   400.1   Buildings and Permitted Uses
      A.   All buildings erected hereafter, all uses of land or buildings
established after the date of adoption of this Ordinance, and all structural
alterations or relocation of existing buildings occurring after the date of
adoption of this Ordinance must be subject to all regulations of this Ordinance
which are applicable to the zoning districts in which such buildings, uses, or
land are located.
      B.   However, where a building or zoning permit for a building or
structure which does not comply with this Ordinance has been issued in
accordance with law prior to the effective date of this Ordinance and provided
that construction is begun within six (6) months of such effective date and
diligently prosecuted to completion, said building or structure may be
completed in accordance with the approved plans on the basis of which the
building permit has been issued. The building or structure may upon completion
be occupied under a Certificate of Occupancy by the use for which originally
designated - subject thereafter to the provisions of
 Title 13,  Nonconforming Buildings, Structures, and Uses.
   400.2   Special Use Permits
Any Special Use Permit approved and established under prior law shall be
permitted to continue. However, where a Special Use Permit has been approved
under prior law and no building or zoning permit has been issued or
construction commenced, then such permit shall be subject to lapsing conditions
of the permit. Where such Special Use Permit contains no lapsing provisions, it
shall be valid up to one (1) year of the date of approval, unless a building
permit has been issued or construction commenced.
   400.3   Approved Variances
Any Variance established under prior law must be permitted to continue.
However, where a Variance has been approved under prior law and no building
permit has been issued or construction commenced (where a Variance involves
construction), then such permit shall be subject to lapsing conditions of the
permit. Except, however, where said Variance contains no lapsing provisions, it
shall be valid up to one (1) year of the date of approval of the permit, unless
a permit has been issued or construction commenced.
   400.4   Pending Applications
Applications on file for any Zoning Amendment, Special Use Permit, Conditional
Use Permit, Variance or Appeal at the time of adoption of this Ordinance for
which a public hearing was held under prior Ordinances shall be governed by the
Ordinance in effect at the time of hearing. Pending applications which have yet
to be heard will be governed under the procedures and requirements of this
Ordinance.
Sec. 401   Applicability
   401.1   Zoning Lots
      A.   Number of Buildings on a Zoning Lot - Except for guest houses, or
structures otherwise approved by the City Council as part of a shopping center
or Planned Development, not more than one principal building must be located on
a zoning lot.
      B.   Minimum Zoning Lot Frontage - All residential zoning lots created
subsequent to the effective date of this Ordinance must have a minimum lot
frontage and rear yard of thirty (30) feet. However, on land which existed as a
lot of record on the effective date of this Ordinance, a single family dwelling
may be established regardless of the frontage of the lot, provided all other
requirements of this Ordinance are complied with.
      C.   Division of Zoning Lots - No improved zoning lot shall hereafter be
divided into two or more zoning lots and no portion of any improved zoning lot
shall be sold, unless all improved zoning lots resulting from each such
division or sale must conform to all the applicable bulk regulations of the
zoning district in which the property is located. Except as may be permitted
under Section
1302.
   401.2   Minimum Lot Size
Every building hereafter erected on a lot or parcel of land created subsequent
to the effective date of this Ordinance shall provide a lot or parcel of land
in accordance with the lot size requirement of the district within which it is
located. Except, however, on a lot of record on the effective date of this
Ordinance, the requirements of
Title 13,  Nonconforming Lots of record, must be met. In no case, shall a lot
created illegally be considered a lot of record.
Sec. 402   Accessory Buildings, Bulk Regulations and Permitted Obstructions in
Required Setbacks and Yards
   402.1   Accessory Structures and Uses
      A.   Purpose
Accessory buildings, structures and uses customarily incidental to and commonly
associated with a use allowed as a permitted or special use within a particular
zoning district may be allowed to occupy the same zoning lot as the permitted
or special use. To qualify as an accessory building, structure, or use, it must
be operated and maintained under the same ownership and on the same lot as the
principal building, structure, or use and must meet the definition for an
accessory use stated in
Title 3 , Rules and Definitions.
      B.   Percentage Coverage of Zoning Lot and Required Yard
No detached accessory building or structure shall occupy more than twenty (20)
percent of the area of the yard within which such accessory structure is
located.
      C.   Special Provisions Regarding Detached Structures and Uses in Rear
Yards
         1.   As an exception to B., above, and unless otherwise authorized by
Special Use Permit, detached accessory structures, including all paved and
impervious surface areas, shall not occupy more than fifty percent (50%) of a
required rear yard.
         2.   No detached accessory structures (except fence lines) in the rear
yard shall be any closer than three (3) feet to the principal structure.
         3.   On any corner lot located in the R-3, R-4 or R-5 zoning
districts, no detached accessory storage shed or structure intended exclusively
for storage (other than a traditional detached garage) shall cover more than
ten percent (10%) of a required rear yard in an R-3 district, and no more than
fifteen percent (15%) of a required rear yard in an R-4 or R-5 district;
provided, however, no storage shed or structure shall exceed one hundred fifth
(150) square feet in the R-3 district, nor more than one hundred twenty- five
(125) square feet in the R-4 or R-5 zoning districts. (Ord. 4494, passed 11/5/
01).
       D.   Drainage Easements
Accessory buildings, structures or uses must not be located on or within
drainage easement created by a duly recorded document.
      E.   Height of Accessory Buildings and Structures
Except for flag poles, no detached accessory structure or building shall exceed
twelve (12) feet in height. Further, no detached accessory garage building or
structure shall exceed eighteen (18) feet in height. Height shall be measured
from the mean elevation of the finished lot grade at the front of the building
to the highest point of the structure.
      F.   Attached Accessory Structures
An attached accessory structure must comply with all zoning district
regulations applicable to the principal building, structure or use to which it
is accessory.
      G.   Detached Accessory Structures and Uses
Unless otherwise provided in subsection 402.2 below, detached accessory
structures and improvements shall:
         1.   Be located no closer to the front lot line than the principal
dwelling on the lot for detached accessory buildings.
         2.   Otherwise meet the yard requirements of the zoning district in
which the proposed accessory structure or use is to be located, as provided in
Title 5 , Zoning Districts.
      H.   Permitted Accessory Uses
         1.   Residential Districts
The following are accessory uses and structures permitted within all
residential zoning districts, subject to applicable requirements of the zoning
district and Title 9, Design and Performance Standards.
            a)   Air conditioning/heat pump/generator or similar mechanical
equipment
            b)   Arbor or trellises
            c)   Auction sales (See Section
404  Temporary Uses)
            d)   Convents, seminaries and, monasteries
            e)   Type B Child Day Care Home (See Design and Performance
Standards, 901.3)
            f)   Deck
            g)   Dog house
            h)   Driveways up to twelve (12) feet width
            i)   Entrance pillars (See Design and Performance Standards, 901.9)
            j)   Earth satellite stations and electronic antenna
            k)   Fences and walls in accord with Title 4, General Provisions
            l)   Firewood storage
            m)   Flag poles (See Design and Performance Standards, 901.4)
            n)   Garden, greenhouse, conservatory, private
            o)   Garage
            p)   Garage sales
            q)   Gazebo
            r)   Home occupations
            s)   Hot tub
             t)   Mail box
            u)   Patio
            v)   Play houses and summer houses
            w)   Retaining walls
            x)   Service walks (See Design and Performance Standards, 901.8)
            y)   Sheds for storage of common household items
            z)   Signs, in accord with
Title 12,  Signs
            aa)   Steps and ramps
            bb)   Storage of non-passenger vehicles (See Design and Performance
Standards, 901.5)
            cc)   Swimming pools, private
            dd)   Temporary Outdoor Restroom Facilities (See Design and
Performance Standards, 901.20)
            ee)   Terrace
            ff)   Yard lamp/light
            gg)   Vertical Projections
            hh)   Parking pads
         2.   Business Districts
The following are accessory uses and structures permitted within all business
districts, subject to applicable requirements of the zoning district and Title
9, Design and Performance Standards.
            a)   Air conditioning/heat pump/generator or similar mechanical
equipment
            b)   Arbor or trellises
            c)   Auction sales (See Section
404 , Temporary Uses)
            d)   Deck
            e)   Dumpsters, garbage receptacles, and Temporary Outdoor Restroom
Facilities (See Design and Performance Standards, 901.20)
            f)   Earth satellite stations and electronic antenna
            g)   Fences and walls in accord with
Title 4 , General Provisions
            h)   Garden, greenhouse, conservatory, private
            i)   Garage
            j)   Gazebo
            k)   Patio
            l)   Service walks (See Design and Performance Standards, 901.8)
            m)   Sheds for storage
            n)   Signs, in accord with
 Title 12 , Signs
            o)   Steps and ramps
            p)   Terrace
   402.2   Permitted Obstructions in Yards
Subject to all other requirements of this section, accessory buildings,
structures or uses shall be permitted in designated yards of a zoning lot as
follows:
 
F   = Front Yard
CS    = Corner Side Yard
S   = Interior Side Yards
R    = Rear Yards
Awnings, Balconies, Canopies, One Story Bay Window   F   CS    S   R
Not more than three (3) feet into the required yard and
not more than fifteen (15) percent of the required rear yard)
Arbors or Trellises                  F   CS    S   R
(one arbor and/or trellis not to exceed eight (8) feet height)
Air conditioning condenser/heat pump/generator
or similar mechanical equipment            CS    S   R
(minimum yard must be met on side yard)
Air Conditioner - Window Mounted Unit         F   CS S   R
(not more than two (2) feet)
Basketball equipment                  F    CS S   R
Barbecuing Equipment, Permanent and Temporary      S   R
Breezeway or Open Porch               F   CS S   R
Chimney                     F   CS S   R
(not more than two (2) feet)
Communications Tower               R
Deck                        S   R
Dog Houses                        R
Dog Runs                        R
Dumpsters and Garbage Receptacles            S   R
(Except for temporary placement for collection)
Eaves, Overhangs Gutters, and Bay Windows      F   CS S   R
(Not more than three (3) feet in front yard nor
more than thirteen (13) inches in interior side or rear)
Fences and Walls                  F   CS S   R
See
Title 4,  General Provisions for additional requirements
Firewood Storage                  S R
Flagpoles                  F   CS S R
(One flag pole per zoning lot)
Garages, Detached                  S R
Greenhouses, Private                  S R
Garden Appurtenances            F   CS S   R
(such as benches, sundials, birdbaths, fountains and sculptures)
Hot Tubs               R
Mail Box, free-standing   F   CS   R
Non-passenger Vehicle Storage   S   R
See Section  901.5
Off-Street Parking         S   R
See
Title 11 , Off-Street Parking and Loading
Ornamental Light Standards         F   CS    S   R
Picnic Table, Patio and Lawn Furniture   CS    S   R
Playground Equipment
(Basketball hoops, backstops and supporting posts
are allowed in all yards)      S   R
Playhouses, Gazebos, Open Sided Summer Houses         R
Service walks and other Impervious Surfaces   F   CS    S   R
Signs and Nameplates    
See
Title 12 , Signs            F   CS    S   R
Sills, Beltcourses and Ornamental Features
of the Principal Structure (Not more than
eighteen (18) inches into setback or court)   F   CS    S   R
(May not be less than one (1) foot from a lot line and
four (4) feet above the established grade and which are
necessary for access to a structure or from a public right-of-way)   F CS S   R
Swimming Pools      S   R
Temporary Outdoor Restroom Facilities      S   R
Tennis Courts, Private         R
Terrace   F   CS    S   R
Window Wells
(not more than two (2) feet into the required yard)   F    CS    S   R
Sec. 403   Fences, Walls and Hedges
403.1   Fence Construction
      A.   Fences, walls (including retaining walls which significantly change
the grade or contour of the land and which do not substantially follow or
preserve such grade or contour) and terraces may be erected, placed or
maintained upon, but only to the heights set forth below. Retaining walls which
substantially follow or preserve the existing grade or contour of land may be
erected, placed or maintained without height limitations.
      B.   Fences must be constructed of wood or ornamental wrought iron (in a
traditional style as previously existing in this City) or of steel or aluminum
formed and colored and in such a style as to be substantially similar to such
wrought iron. Wood used in such fences shall be limited to cedar, redwood, or
to southern pine pressure treated with a preservative so as to meet standards
of the American Wood Preservation Association, AWPA C2-01, but excluding
creosote and petaclorifinal preservation. Exceptions to this requirement
include green or black vinyl or chain link wire fences enclosing part or all of
a tennis court or other fences as may be approved as part of a Conditional Use
Permit request. Further, chain link wire fences erected on public property used
to separate public buildings or grounds from immediately adjoining dedicated
streets are permitted. Fences of synthetic or composite materials that have the
functional equivalence of natural or traditional material may be substituted.
For purposes of this section, fences shall be defined as synthetic when they
are constructed of material that is entirely manmade, such as PVC. Composite
fences are those fences constructed of engineered material that combines
manmade and natural components, in any ratio, into a single building material.
Such synthetic or composite fences shall conform to the following requirements:
         1.   All synthetic fences and parts thereof shall be made exclusively
of first run, virgin compounds homogenous throughout the extruded wall of the
profile with at least a 20-year non-prorated warranty. All composite fences and
parts thereof shall be subject to this same material requirement, but shall
carry at least a 15-year non-prorated warranty.
         2.   Fence colors shall be limited to white, almond, gray, light
brown, natural wood finishes, or approved equals.
         3.   All latches, hinges and hardware shall be made of non-rusting
materials.
         4.   All vinyl fence material shall conform to the American Society
for Testing and Materials (ASTM) Standard F964-94. (Ord. 4529, passed 3/3/03,
effective 4/3/03).
         5.   All composite fence material shall be free of urea formaldehyde
and other toxic chemicals or compounds capable of being leached into the soil
or air. (Ord. 4757, passed 9/17/12).
   C.   Temporary fences and walls used for the duration of construction may be
approved as a temporary use in accord with Section
 404 .
   403.2   Fence Design Standards
      A.   Fence Height - Residential Districts
         1.   Front Yard and Corner Side Yard. Fences, walls and hedges must
not exceed three and one-half (3 1/2) feet in height in any front or corner
side yard. Brick or stone walls must not be more than twelve (12) inches high.
         2.   Interior Side Yard. Fences, walls and hedges must not exceed five
(5) feet in any interior side yard, but if such yard abuts a yard on adjacent
property with a lower permitted height for fences and walls, that lower height
shall apply. However, fences, walls and hedges may be allowed a height of up to
six (6) feet in that portion of a required interior side yard which is adjacent
to land zoned for nonresidential purposes.
         3.   Rear Yard. Fences, walls and hedges must not exceed six (6) feet
height in any rear yard. For the purpose of this section, the rear yard shall
be deemed to extend from the rear wall of the principal structure to each side
(or corner side) lot line. If a rear yard of a corner lot abuts a yard on
adjacent property with a lower permitted height for fences or walls or hedges,
the lower height must apply to the entire rear yard.
         4.   Fences, walls and hedges on a through lot shall treat both the
front and rear yards as a front yard for purposes of fence height.
         5.   Fence height excludes ornamental and decorative post knobs no
taller than six (6) inches.
         6.   The combined height of fences on retaining walls shall be used in
determining conformance with fence height.
      B.   Fence Height - Business Districts
The height of fences, walls and hedges in business districts shall be treated
the same as residential districts.
      C.   No fence or wall shall be erected, placed, or maintained on any
property within the front or the corner side yard that is more than fifty (50)
percent opaque when viewed horizontally (from the side). An exception to this
rule are screening fences in transitional yards, approved as part of a
landscape plan required by this ordinance, intended to screen potential
nuisances from the view of adjoining property.
      D.   In any district no fence, wall, hedge or shrubbery shall obstruct
the visibility triangle as defined by this Ordinance.
      E.   Wood fences are to be constructed so as to have one side smooth and
the other side with protruding materials must be erected with the smooth side
facing out toward adjoining properties. More than one type of fencing may be
used without special use permission.
      F.   Fences of chain link, wire or green or black vinyl extending up to
fifteen (15) feet in height may be allowed around part or all of tennis courts
(public or private) or on public parks and playgrounds.
Sec. 404   Temporary Uses and Events
   404.1   Authority
Temporary uses and events may be permitted in any residential or commercial
district in accordance with a permit that may be issued upon written
application to the City Manager or an appointed designee. The City Manager,
subject to the requirements of this section, must approve, deny, or approve
with conditions a temporary use/event permit request. The City Manager, at its
sole discretion, may direct any application for a temporary use or event to the
Planning Commission for consideration and action.
   404.2   Temporary Use and Event Requirements
      A.   General Requirements
Except where else provided in this Ordinance, in any residential district, such
temporary uses and events may only be authorized when sponsored by and for the
benefit of non-profit, charitable, , or government entities. This section
specifically excludes weddings and other private parties and garage sales. The
City Manager must not approve any temporary use or event, nor shall any permit
granted remain valid unless the applicant satisfies the following conditions
through the terms of the permit:
         1.   Compliance with all applicable City codes and Ordinances;
         2.   Approval by the Building Commissioner of all plans for structures
and plans for vehicular and pedestrian access in connection with the temporary
use or event;
         3.   Compliance with all health regulations of the Oakwood Health
Department, as applicable; and
         4.   Compliance with the conditions established by the Planning
Commission and City Manager necessary to protect the public health, safety and
welfare and the polices and objectives of the Zoning Ordinance and the
Comprehensive Plan.
A violation of the terms and conditions as established by the permit, at the
sole discretion of the City Manger may result in immediate termination of the
permit and cessation and evacuation of the use or event.
      B.   Duration of Permit.
A permit for a temporary use or event shall be for a fixed term established at
the time of issuance not to exceed sixty (60) days. Only two permits shall be
issued to the same applicant for the same premises each calendar year. Within
the two (2) days after termination of the permit, the permittee must remove all
temporary structures, items and debris, and restore the premises to a safe
condition.
   404.3   Requirements for Specific Events
Requirements for specific events in this section are in addition to the
requirements for events indicated above.
      A.   Outdoor Sales - Business Events
Within the business zoning districts up to a maximum of four separate dates in
any calendar year, an owner/operator may also conduct uses permitted under this
Ordinance by selling goods outside of any enclosed building on the site, with
such outside sales to be subject to all health, safety and other regulations
now existing or hereafter. These four dates must be used in common by the
businesses in any particular Business District, so there will be only four
dates each year on which outside business may be conducted in that District.
Dates for such outside sales are to be established in the following manner:
         1.   Any one or more persons may file a written application on a form
provided by the City requesting approval by the City Manager of one to four
dates in any calendar year for such outside sales. Any such application must be
accompanied by a fee as determined by the City Manager under Chapter
153  of the Administrative Code.
         2.   The application shall include a letter from the organization
indicating that at least fifty (50) percent of the retail merchants who sell
products in that particular business area are interested in participating in
the business event. The letter must be signed by an officer of the association
and shall affirm the fact that the members have been informed of the proposed
sale dates and that fifty percent (50%) or more are interested in participating
in the event. At the City's discretion, notice and hearing before the Planning
Commission may be required prior to the issuance of a temporary use permit.
      B.   Auction Sales
Auction sales are subject to the following limitations; restrictions against
sale of food, prohibited areas, restrictions against attendance fees, control
of the number of sales per dwelling unit or business establishment in a
calendar year, and restrictions against advertising as are applicable to garage
sales. Such auction sales may be held only between the hours of 8:00 A.M. and
5:00 P.M. No such auction sale may extend for more than three (3) consecutive
days (or portions thereof) nor occur within two (2) calendar months of any
auction sale for the same dwelling unit. The City Manager shall have authority
to permit any such sale to extend for up to an additional two (2) consecutive
days of an inspection of the property indicating that it is not reasonable to
believe the auction sale could be completed within the three (3) day limit.
 
Sec. 405   Wireless Telecommunication Facilities
      405.1   Legislative Purposes
The purpose of this Section is to regulate the placement, construction, and
modification of wireless communications facilities and their support structures
in order to promote and protect the public health, safety, morals, comfort,
prosperity and general welfare, while at the same time not unreasonably
interfering with the development of the competitive wireless telecommunications
market place in the Miami Valley Region. Specifically, the purposes of this
Section are:
         1.   To direct the location of various types of towers and wireless
telecommunications facilities into appropriate areas of the City.
         2.   To protect residential areas and land uses from potential adverse
impacts of towers and wireless telecommunications facilities.
         3.   To minimize adverse visual impacts of towers and wireless
telecommunications facilities through careful design, siting, landscaping and
innovative camouflaging techniques.
         4.   To promote and encourage shared use/co-location of towers and
antenna support structures as a primary option rather than construction of
additional single-use towers.
         5.   To avoid potential damages to adjacent properties caused by
towers and wireless telecommunications facilities by ensuring such structures
are soundly designed, constructed, and modified, are appropriately maintained,
and are fully removed upon any cessation of operation.
         6.   To the greatest extent feasible, ensure that towers and wireless
telecommunications facilities are compatible with surrounding land uses.
         7.   To the greatest extent feasible, ensure that towers and wireless
telecommunications facilities are designed in harmony with natural settings and
in a manner consistent with current development patterns.
   405.2   Applicability
All towers, antenna support structures, and wireless telecommunications
facilities, any portion of which are located within the City, are subject to
this Section. Except as provided in this Section, any use being made of an
existing tower or antenna support structure on the effective date of the
Ordinance enacting this Section shall be deemed a nonconforming structure and
allowed to continue, even if in conflict with the terms of this Section. Any
tower site that has received approval in the form of a building permit by the
City, but has not yet been constructed or located, shall be considered a
nonconforming structure so long as such approval is current and not expired.
Subject to all other requirements of this ordinance, location of wireless
telecommunications facilities shall be permitted only on publicly owned real
property, or on private property in business districts when no acceptable
location is available on publicly owned real property.
   405.3   Application and Review Requirements
All applications for wireless telecommunications facilities, including towers,
must include the information required under this Section.
      A.   Plot Plan Required
Any person or company intending to apply for the placement or operation of a
telecommunication facility within the City must first schedule a pre-
application conference with the City Manager or an appointed designee. At this
meeting, the applicant must present a plot plan at a scale of not less than one
(1) inch equals one hundred (100) feet. This plot plan must indicate all
building and land uses within two hundred (200) feet of the proposed facility.
Aerial photos and/or renderings may augment the plot plan.
       B.   Photo Simulations Required
Photo simulations of the proposed wireless telecommunications facility from
affected residential properties and public rights-of-way taken at designated
locations shall be provided. All costs for visual analysis, and applicable
administrative costs, shall be borne by the applicant.
      C.   Technical Necessity
The applicant must demonstrate that the telecommunication tower must be located
where it is proposed in order to provide adequate coverage to the applicant's
service area. There must be an explanation of why a tower and the proposed site
is technically necessary.
      D.   Review By Radio Frequency Engineer
The evidence submitted by the applicant must be reviewed by a radio frequency
engineer chosen by the City, who shall support or refute the evidence. If the
radio frequency engineer refutes the evidence submitted by the applicant, the
City may deny the application. The cost of the radio frequency engineer shall
be borne by the applicant.
      E.   Required Site and Landscaping Plan
   The applicant shall present a site and landscaping plan showing the
following:
         1.   Specific placement of the wireless telecommunications facility on
the site.
         2.   The location of existing structures, trees, and other significant
site features.
         3.   Type and locations of plant materials used to screen the
facilities.
         4.   The proposed color of the facility.
      F.   Co-Location, Maintenance and Removal Agreement
The applicant shall present signed statements, binding upon any successor of
the applicant, providing that:
         1.   The applicant agrees to allow for the potential co-location of
additional wireless telecommunications facilities by other providers on the
applicant's structure or within the same site location; and
         2.   The applicant must properly maintain the exterior appearance of
the wireless telecommunication facilities.
         3.   The applicant agrees to remove the facility within one hundred
eighty (180) days after its use is discontinued.
         4.   The applicant shall reimburse the City for all costs incurred
to    perform any work required of the applicant, but which the applicant fails
to perform.
       G.   Denial by Jurisdiction
Any decision to deny a request to place, construct or modify a wireless
telecommunications facility and/or tower shall be in writing and supported by
evidence contained in a written record.
      H.   Variances
Any request to deviate from any of the requirements of this Section shall
require approval of a Variance in conformance with the procedures set forth in
Section
1006  of this Ordinance.
   405.4   Standards Applicable to All Wireless Telecommunications Facilities
      A.   Construction Standards
All wireless telecommunications facilities and support structures shall be
certified by an Engineer licensed in the State of Ohio to be structurally sound
and, at a minimum, in conformance with the Ohio Basic Building Code. Proof of
on-going compliance must be provided to the City Manager every ten years by way
of an inspection report prepared by an Ohio licensed structural engineer
indicating the structural integrity of the tower. All wireless
telecommunications facilities and support structures shall be certified by an
Engineer licensed in the State of Ohio to be structurally sound.
      B.   Fire Protection
All wireless telecommunication buildings must be designed and operated in such
a manner as to minimize the risk of igniting a fire or intensifying one that
otherwise occurs. The City Manager shall determine what safety measures shall
be implemented for all telecommunication buildings.
      C.   Height Determination
The height of a tower shall be measured from the ground surface below the base
to the top of the tower itself or, if higher, to the top of the highest antenna
or piece of equipment attached thereto. In the case of building mounted towers,
the height of the tower includes the height of the portion of the building on
which the tower is mounted.
      D.   Telecommunication Support Facilities
No telecommunication support facility shall be more than one story in height
and must be constructed to look like a building or facility typically found in
the area.
      E.   Natural Resource Protection
The location of the wireless telecommunications facilities must comply with all
natural resource protection standards established either in this Ordinance or
in other applicable regulations, including those for flood plains, wetlands,
groundwater protection, and steep slopes.
       F.   Historic or Architectural Standards Compliance
Any application to locate a wireless telecommunications facility on a building
or structure that is listed in a federal, state or local historic register
shall be subject to review by the City Manager an appointed designee to insure
that architectural and design standards are maintained.
      G.   Color and Appearance Standards
         1.   All wireless non-building mounted telecommunications facilities
must be painted a non-contrasting gray or similar color minimizing its
visibility, unless otherwise required by the FCC, FAA and/or by historical or
architectural standards imposed under this Ordinance. All appurtenances must be
aesthetically and architecturally compatible with the surrounding environment
by the means of camouflage deemed acceptable by the City.
         2.   No tower, antenna or wireless telecommunication appurtenance may
be placed on the exterior of a building that is less than two-stories in
height. Any roof-mounted structure(s) must be effectively screened, as
determined by the city.
         3.   Any telecommunication support structures, accessory facility,
accessory structure, storage shed, storage cabinet, or radiotelephone or
transmission equipment associated with a tower, antenna or wireless
telecommunication appurtenance must be located on either the roof of a building
or an appropriate location within the existing structure.
         4.   Any roof-mounted tower, antenna or telecommunication
appurtenance, together with all accessory facilities and structures, must be
effectively screened, as determined by the City.
         5.   Any building mounted wireless telecommunication appurtenance must
be painted the same color as the building and be architecturally compatible
with the surrounding environment.
         6.   No portion of a building mounted telecommunication appurtenance
may be lower than 15 feet above ground level.
      H.   Advertising Prohibited
No advertising is permitted anywhere upon or attached to the wireless
telecommunications facility.
      I.   Artificial Lighting Restricted
No wireless telecommunications facility shall be artificially lit except as
required by the FAA.
      J.   Abandonment
All wireless telecommunications facilities must be subject to the abandonment
requirements set forth in 405.5 of this Ordinance.
      K.   Setback From Edge of Roof
Any wireless telecommunications facility and its appurtenances permitted on the
roof of a building must be set back one (1) foot from the edge of the roof for
each one (1) foot in height of the wireless telecommunications facility.
However, this setback requirement shall not apply to antennae that are less
than two (2) inches in thickness mounted to the sides of antenna support
structures and do not protrude more than six (6) inches from the side of such
an antenna support structure. This requirement is subject to change by the City
upon review of the photo simulation provided in compliance with 405.3, B. of
this Ordinance. Any roof mounted panel antenna with a base area greater than
three and one-half (3 ½) square feet must be located so as to be effectively
unnoticeable.
      L.   Security Enclosure Required
All towers and equipment shelters must be enclosed either completely or
individually as determined by the City. No fencing shall be permitted in a
residential zone. The City and co-locators shall have reasonable access. No
fence shall be required on top of a building or other structure if access to
the roof or top of the structure or building is secure.
      M.   Existing Vegetation and Buffer Plantings
Existing vegetation (trees, shrubs, etc.) must be preserved to the maximum
extent possible. Buffer plantings must be located around the perimeter of the
security enclosure as deemed appropriate by the City. An evergreen screen may
be required around the perimeter of the property in lieu of such buffer
plantings.
      N.   Access Control and Emergency Contact
"No Trespassing" signs must be posted around the wireless telecommunications
facility, along with a telephone number of whom to contact in the event of an
emergency.
      O.   Co-Location Design Required
No new tower shall be constructed in the City unless such tower is capable of
accommodating at least one additional wireless telecommunications facility
owned by another person.
      P.   Co-Location Requirements
All telecommunication facilities must be designed to promote facility and site
sharing. The facility must make available space for co-location of other
telecommunication facilities including space for entities providing similar or
competing services. A good faith effort in achieving co-location shall be
required of the host entity. Request for utilization of facility space and
responses to such requests shall be made in a timely manner and in writing and
shall be provided to the City Manager. Unresolved disputes may be mediated by
the City. Co- location shall not be required in cases where the addition of the
new service or facility would cause quality of service impairment or if it
became necessary for the host to go off-line for a significant period of time.
      Q.   Jurisdiction Study of Potential Sites
Because the City will permit the location of a wireless telecommunications
facility only on publicly-owned property, except where no acceptable location
is available on publicly owned real property, the City shall undertake an
identification of publicly-owned properties that the City determines are
suitable for such use. The City shall regularly update such identification and
make the results available to the public.
      R.   Technically Suitable Space
Authorization for a tower must be issued only if there is not technically
suitable space reasonably available on an existing tower or structure within
the geographic area to be served.
      S.   Location of Wireless Telecommunication Facilities
         1.   Wireless telecommunications facilities shall be permitted and
preferred to be located on publicly-owned real property.
         2.   Wireless telecommunications facilities may also be permitted on
private building locations in business districts when no appropriate location
is available on a publicly owned real property.
         3.   Antenna. Any antenna shall preferably be attached to an existing
publicly-owned building or structure, or to a private building in a business
district where no acceptable location is available on a publicly owned real
property.
         4   Tower
            i.   Minimum Setback From Property Lines - The minimum setbacks and
yard requirements for principal structures for the zoning district where the
tower is to be located shall apply.
            ii.   Minimum Setback From Residential Structure - No tower shall
be located a distance less than its height from a structure used as a
residence.
            iii.   Equipment Shelter - The minimum setbacks and yard
requirements for principal structures shall apply and such shelter shall not be
located above ground in any required front or side yard.
   405.5   Procedure for Decision - Planning Commission and City Council Action
      1.   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on an
application for placement or operation of a telecommunication facility within
the City, once the application and review requirements set forth in 405.3 have
been met. All interested persons shall be afforded an opportunity to be heard.
      2.   The Planning Commission shall vote to recommend approval or denial
of the application by a simple majority based on the criteria and standards set
forth in this Section
405  and all other applicable Oakwood Ordinances.
      3.   The City Council shall hold a public hearing on the proposed
application and shall afford all interested persons the opportunity to be
heard.
      4.   By a simple majority vote, the City Council shall approve, approve
with modifications or conditions, or deny the proposed application based on the
criteria and standards set forth in this Section
405  and all other applicable Oakwood Ordinances.
      5.   A denial of an application must be in writing and be supported by
substantial evidence contained in the written record. The burden of proof for
grant of the application shall always be on the applicant.
   405.6   Abandonment of Tower
      A.   Notification Requirement
All providers utilizing towers shall present a report to the City notifying it
of any tower facility located in the City the use of which will be discontinued
and the date the use will cease. Such report must be filed with the City thirty
(30) days prior to the cessation date. If at any time, the use of the facility
is discontinued for one hundred eighty (180) days, the Building Commissioner
may declare the facility abandoned. The one hundred eighty (180) day period
excludes any dormancy period between construction and the initial use of the
facility. The Building Commissioner must serve the owner/operator with written
notice of the declaration of abandonment and be instructed to either reactivate
use of the facility or commence to dismantle and remove the facility within
sixty (60) days from the mailing of the notice. Service of said notice must be
by ordinary mail to the last known address of the owner/operator and service
shall be presumed if said notice is not returned by the U. S. Post Office. If
the notice is returned as undelivered, the Building Commissioner shall post the
notice on the tower for a period of thirty (30) days. If reactivation or
dismantling does not commence or, if commenced, the dismantling is not
diligently pursued within said sixty (60) day period, and no Appeal is filed as
provided by Section 405.5, C., the City may either remove the facility or
contract to have the facility removed and assess the owner/operator the costs.
      B.   Contents of Notice to Owner/Operator
The notice required by Section 405.5 shall inform the recipient that it has the
right to Appeal the order to reactivate or dismantle by filing a written notice
of Appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals of the City. Said written notice of
Appeal must be filed with the Clerk of Council within thirty (30) days
following service of the notice provided for in Section 405.5.
      C.   Appeal Procedure
Any Appeal filed pursuant to Section 405.5, A., shall proceed as provided in
Section 1007 of this Ordinance.
      D.   Order of Removal
If the Board of Zoning Appeals affirms the order of the Building Commissioner,
the City may proceed in accordance with the provisions of Section 405.5 in the
same manner as if an Appeal had not been filed unless the owner/operator
complies with paragraph A.
   405.7   Separability
Should any section, clause, paragraph, sentence, item, phrase or provision of
this Section
405  be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or
invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of this Section
405  as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be
unconstitutional or invalid. (Amended Ord. 4561, 12/20/04).
Sec. 406   Shielding of Outdoor Illumination
The illumination of signs, and all other outdoor lighting, shall be so
designed, placed, shielded or arranged so as not to cause a glare, light or
reflection of light upon adjacent premises or upon the street. For all non-
residential and multiple family residential improvements requiring Site
Development Plan Review under Section
1012  of this ordinance, appropriate lighting plans and specifications shall be
submitted for City approval under these provisions.
Sec. 407   Stormwater Management
All zoning applications and/or issues are subject to all provisions and
requirements of the City's stormwater management code (Part Twelve - Stormwater
Management Code). (Ord. 4671, passed 5/4/09, effective 6/4/09).
 
Sec. 408   Medical Marijuana
   408.1   Legislative Purpose
Although medical marijuana is in some respects legal under applicable state
law, it remains illegal under federal law. The purpose of this Section is to
prohibit the use of real property in the City for a medical marijuana-related
business or home occupation. This section is expressly adopted as an exercise
of the City's power of local self- government and Home Rule authority pursuant
to Section
1.02  of the City Charter and Section 3, Article XVIII of the Constitution of
the State of Ohio, and pursuant to the provisions of Ohio Revised Code Section
3796.29.
   408.2   Definitions
The following definitions shall apply for all purposes under the Zoning Code:
      a.   "Marijuana" means marihuana as defined in Ohio Revised Code Section
3719.01.
      b.   "Medical marijuana" means marijuana that is cultivated, processed,
dispensed, tested, possessed, or used, for a medical purpose, regardless of
whether such marijuana is, or is not, in a form or intended for incorporation
into a form permitted under Ohio Revised Code Section 3796.06.
      c.   "Medical marijuana-related business or home occupation" means a
business or home occupation use, involving in whole or in part, the
cultivation, processing, distribution, and/or wholesale or retail sale of
medical marijuana on the premises. This definition shall specifically include,
but is not limited to, dispensaries of medical marijuana; facilities for the
cultivation, packing, transportation, processing, storage, and/or sale of
medical marijuana; and bakeries or kitchens producing edible forms of medical
marijuana or products containing the same.
   408.3   Prohibition
No medical marijuana-related business or home occupation may be established,
operated, or maintained within the City, nor shall any provision of the Zoning
Code be construed to permit the use of any property for that purpose. This
prohibition shall apply to all zoning districts within the City.
   408.4   Severability
In the event that any portion of this Section shall be declared invalid or
unenforceable for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, that portion
shall be considered severable and the remainder of this Section shall remain in
full force and effect.
(Ord. 4837, passed 3/6/2017; effective 4/5/2017)
 
Sec. 409   RESIDENTIAL GROUP RENTALS
   409.1   Residential Group Rentals.
      The following standards apply to group rentals of residential properties.
   409.2   Intent.
This section is intended to reasonably regulate detached Single Family and Two
Family dwellings in group rental housing situations. The City finds that
occupancy limits are needed to control negative impact such as traffic
congestion, off and on street parking congestion, noise and litter, which are
inimical to the health and safety of residents, particularly children. Such
regulation is also needed to preserve property values and the characteristics
of family values, quiet seclusion, and clean air of such neighborhoods.
   409.3   Maximum Number of Occupants.
No Single Family Dwelling, or dwelling unit in a Two Family Dwelling, may be
rented to, or occupied by, more than two individuals who do not constitute a
Family. See Section 300, Terms Defined, and Section 409.4, Determination of
Status as Family.
   409.4   Determination of Status as Family.
      A.   Determination.
Upon investigation, complaint, or application of a person aggrieved, the
Building Commissioner shall make a written determination of whether a specified
group of persons constitutes a Family.
      B.   Transferability.
The determination of the Building Commissioner, subject to any modification on
appeal, shall be transferable with the entire group of persons constituting the
household or with a majority of the persons constituting such household. It
shall not run with the premises when occupied by a different household or other
group of persons.
      C.   Appeal.
The Building Commissioner's determination under this Section may be appealed to
the Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance with Section
1007 . In acting on such appeals, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall apply the
factors set forth in Section 409.4(D) and shall be authorized to overrule the
determination only where there is evidence in the record that the Building
Commissioner erred. The following individuals have the right to appeal the
Building Commissioner's determination:
         1.   Any member of the group proposed as a Family;
         2.   The owner of the premises occupied by such group; or
         3.   Any other person aggrieved by the Building Commissioner's
determination.
      D.   Factors.
The determination of whether a group of unrelated persons living together are a
Family shall be based on such of the following factors as may be known to the
Building Commissioner, upon information and belief or otherwise. The presence
or absence of any single factor is not necessarily determinative of whether the
unit constitutes a Family.
         1.   The following factors shall be prima facie evidence that the
group of persons living together constitutes a Family:
            a.   The same group of persons, or a majority of them, has resided
together at a different location for a period of at least 6 months or at the
present location for at least 12 months.
            b.   One or two members of the group have executed the lease for
the entire premises, including the entire rental obligation, and there are no
sub-lease, hold-harmless or other written arrangements to pro- rate the rent or
recover the rent from other members of the group.
         2.   The following factors shall be prima facie evidence that the
group of persons does not constitute a Family:
            a.   The group includes more than two unrelated individuals.
            b.   Individual members of the group have entered into separate
leases for the same premises, or parts thereof, with the obligation under each
lease constituting only a portion of the total periodic rent payment due to the
landlord for occupancy of the premises.
            c.   The premises are equipped with combination or key-operated
locks on individual rooms or with other means by which one member of the group
may prevent other members of the group from entering her or his room or portion
of the premises when she or he is not physically present. (Deadbolts, chains or
other locking devices operated only from inside the room shall not be
considered as evidence of the status of the group.)
         3.   The following additional factors shall be considered, to the
extent known or applicable, in determining whether the group of persons
constitutes a Family:
            a.   Voter registration. Voter registration by a majority of the
eligible members of the group listing the address of the group's dwelling shall
be considered evidence in support of the proposition that the group is a
Family. Voter registration listing other addresses by a majority of the adult
members of the group, or by a majority of those actually registered to vote
shall be considered evidence negating the proposition that the group is a
Family.
            b.   Driver's licenses. Drivers' licenses held by a majority of the
adult members of the group listing the address of the group's dwelling shall be
considered evidence in support of the proposition that the group is a Family.
Drivers' licenses listing other addresses by a majority of the adult members of
the group, or by a majority of those actually holding such licenses shall be
considered evidence negating the proposition that the group is a Family.
            c.   Motor vehicle registration. The registration of motor vehicles
regularly found at the dwelling listing the address of the group's dwelling
shall be considered evidence in support of the proposition that the group is a
Family. The regular presence at the dwelling of one or more motor vehicles
belonging to members of the group and registered at one or more other addresses
shall be considered evidence negating the proposition that the group is a
Family.
             d.   Tax filings. The filing of tax returns by a majority of the
members of the group listing the address of the group's dwelling shall be
considered evidence in support of the proposition that the group is a Family.
The filing of tax returns listing other addresses by members of the group shall
be considered evidence negating the proposition that the group is a Family.
Evidence that one or more individuals are claimed as dependents on the income
tax return of individuals not resident in the household shall be considered
evidence that the group is not a Family.
            e.   Minor children. The presence of minor dependent children
regularly residing in the dwelling unit and enrolled in local schools with one
or more members of the group acting in the role of parents (and primary care-
givers) shall be considered a factor tending to support the proposition that
the group is a Family.
            f.   Summer living arrangements. Evidence that different residents
of the dwelling unit are away during the summer and that they have several as
opposed to a single summer address shall be considered evidence negating the
proposition that the group is a Family.
            g.   Household furniture and appliances. Evidence of common
acquisition and ownership of furniture and appliances shall be considered
evidence in support of the proposition that the group is a Family.
            h.   Employment. Full-time employment of some members of the group
in the general community shall be considered evidence in support of the
proposition that the group is a Family.
            i.   Groceries and meal preparation. Evidence that groceries are
purchased and meals regularly prepared for the group as a whole shall be
considered evidence in support of the proposition that the group is a Family.
For purposes of this factor, weekly joint purchases of groceries and the
preparation and sharing of at least seven meals per week shall be considered
"regularly prepared."
      E.   The Building Commissioner shall make the determination of whether
the group constitutes a family based on a preponderance of the evidence. Where
there is prima facie evidence supporting only one side of the proposition, the
Building Commissioner shall make a determination that is supported by that
prima facie evidence unless the Building Commissioner finds compelling evidence
for the other side of the proposition, a finding which should normally be
supported by at least four of the factors listed above.
      F.   Supported living facilities or similar facilities that provide non-
institutional residential accommodations for unrelated adults, a majority of
which require personal care services by reason of having a "handicap" or
"disability" as those terms are defined by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of
1988 (42 U.S.C. Sec. 3601 et seq.) and the Americans with Disabilities Act of
1990 (42 U.S.C. Sec. 12101 et seq.), will be presumed to be a household that is
the functional equivalent of a traditional family.
   409.5   Enforcement.
      A.   In addition to other legal remedies for violations of the Zoning
Ordinance, a violation of Section 409.3 shall constitute a minor misdemeanor on
the first offense, and a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on each subsequent
offense, and shall be chargeable against both the owner(s) and tenant(s) of the
premises at issue.
       B.   Notwithstanding the notice procedures set forth in Section
1010 , notice of violations under this Section shall be made by regular US
mail, email, hand- delivery, posting upon the premises, or in any other manner
reasonably calculated to reach the violator, and shall request abatement of the
violation within ten (10) days. If the violation is not abated with ten (10)
days, a citation and/or summons may be issued without delay.
      C.   Premises that have been rented or occupied in violation of Section
409  on two (2) or more occasions within a three (3) year period, while under
common ownership, where each predicate violation has resulted in the conviction
of an owner or tenant thereof, are hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and
the City Attorney may initiate civil proceedings to abate the nuisance.
 
TITLE 5. ZONING DISTRICTS
Sec. 500   Districts
For purposes of this Ordinance, the City of Oakwood is hereby divided into the
following zoning districts:
      Residential Districts 
      Residence Districts, Generally
      R1   -   Single-Family Residence District
      R2   -   Single-Family Residence District
      R3   -   Single-Family Residence District
      R4   -   Single-Family Residence District
      R5   -   Two-Family Residence District
      R6   -   General Residence District
      R7   -   General Residence District
      Business Districts
      
      Business Districts, Generally
      
      NB   -   Neighborhood Business District
      CB   -   Community Business District
      Special Purpose Districts
      C   -   Cemetery District
      MU   -   Multi-Use Special Planning District
      WO   -   Wellhead Operation District
      WF   -   Wellfield Overlay District
Sec. 501   Official Zoning Map
The location and boundaries of districts are set forth on the map entitled
"City of Oakwood Zoning Map", dated March 1995, as amended, which is
incorporated herein, and made a part of this Ordinance.
   501.1   Rules
      A.   The location and boundaries of the districts established by this
Ordinance are to be set forth on a zoning map entitled Amended Oakwood Zoning
District Map (the "zoning map"). Subsequent zoning amendments which change the
zoning district for any real estate also shall be depicted on that map.
      B.   The following rules shall apply with respect to the boundaries of
the various districts as shown on the zoning map:
          1.   Zoning district boundary lines are and shall be lot lines or the
centerlines of highways, streets, alleys and street easements to the extent
reasonably possible. Platting or replatting of lots shall be required to
accomplish this with regard to any application or permit involving a zoning
district line that divides a lot or runs through privately owned land that has
not been platted as a lot.
         2.   In areas not subdivided into lots and blocks, wherever a district
is indicated as a strip adjacent to and paralleling a street or highway, the
depth of such strips shall be in accordance with dimensions shown on the map
measured at right angles from the center line of the street or highway, and the
length of frontage shall be in accordance with dimensions shown on the map from
section, quarter section or division lines, or center lines of streets and
highways, unless otherwise indicated.
         3.   No street or alley shall be deemed to be an unzoned area, and
instead every street or alley is included in one zoning district or another, as
depicted on the zoning map and/or described in zoning ordinances.
   501.2   Purchase of Zoning Ordinance and Zoning Map
The current Zoning Ordinance text and zoning district map is available for
purchase from the City of Oakwood Municipal Offices.
Sec. 502   Conformance to the Comprehensive Plan
In consideration of any Zoning Amendment, Special Use Permit, Conditional Use,
Permit Site Plan Permit, or Variance to these regulations, conformance to the
City of Oakwood Comprehensive Plan shall be considered and a part of the
determination in the requested action.
Sec. 503   Exclusive Nature of Zoning District Regulations
The requirements of this Title shall be deemed to be "exclusive". Unless
expressly authorized by the terms of this Ordinance, when permitting and
granting actions and rights, by definition, it excludes other "similar" or
"like" uses, actions or rights.
TITLE 6. RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
Sec. 600   Residence Districts Generally
   600.1   Purpose of the Residential Districts As a Class
The purpose of the residential districts are to divide the City of Oakwood into
land use areas which reflect the character of both new and existing residential
areas in accordance with the general intentions of the City's Comprehensive
Plan. The residential districts establish development standards and regulations
reasonably required to protect existing and new development from the
encroachment of incompatible land-uses.
   600.2   Lot Size and Area Requirements
Lot size requirements shall be specified under each zoning district in Sections
600  through
607 . Further provisions regarding the use and development of nonconforming
lots of record are established in
Title 13.
      A.   No buildings shall be converted by increasing the number of dwelling
units within the building if the total number of dwelling units on the lot
would cause that lot to be in violation of the lot size requirements of the
district in which such building is located, or to violate those size
requirements to a greater extent.
      B.   In the R-6 and R-7 Districts, the number of efficiency units
provided in a multiple family dwelling shall not exceed twenty five (25)
percent of the total number of dwelling units in the building.
   600.3   Required Front and Corner Side Yards in Residential Districts
      A.   Notwithstanding the provisions of any other sections of this
Ordinance, the minimum front yard setback and the minimum corner side yard
setback which is required for any principal permitted use on a lot in any
residential district shall be the least of the alternative measurements set
forth below:
         1.   For a front yard, the average front yard setback (and for a
corner side yard, the average corner side yard setback) for all permitted uses
then existing in that block and on the same side of the street as the lot in
question; or
         2.   The general purpose of this section is to require structures to
be built about the same distance back from the street as existing houses in
that block. In some instances, the average yard set back within a block does
not reflect any standard or common setback shared by a large number of lots in
that block, because there are a few yards with much larger (or much smaller)
setbacks.
Accordingly, an alternative measurement for minimum front (and corner side)
yard setbacks under this section must be the front (and corner side) yard
setback size that exists on a majority of all permitted uses in that block on
the same side of the street as the lot in question. There can be no "majority,"
of course, unless more than half the lots have the same yard size (e.g. ten
lots in a block, only three are the same size, so there can be no "majority").
   To resolve that problem, yard setbacks that are approximately equal (maximum
depth Variance of five (5) feet from the largest to the smallest) must be
deemed to be the same size, for the purpose of determining if there is a
majority yard setback size.
      B.   If the lot is not within a block, the alternative standards of
average and majority front yard or corner side yard setbacks shall be measured
in an area four hundred (400) feet on each side of the lot and on the same side
of the street.
      C.   Where a lot is to be occupied for a permitted use without buildings,
the required yards for such lot must be provided and maintained unless
otherwise stipulated in this Ordinance.
   600.4   Commercial Area Access Limitation
No land in a residence district shall be used for driveway, walkway, or other
access purposes to any land located in a business district or used for any
business purpose not permitted in a residence district.
   600.5   Special Building Height Provision for Lots of Nonconforming Width
Every residential zoning district requires increased side yard setbacks for
principal building heights exceeding twenty five (25) feet. This rule shall not
apply to zoning lots which are nonconforming as to minimum lot width, but are
otherwise developable under the terms of this Ordinance. No such yard increases
shall be required for these undersized lots unless a majority of the single
family residences on the same side of the street in the same block or, if there
are no blocks in that area, on the same side of the street and within four
hundred (400) feet of each side of the borders of the lot in question, have
such yards larger than those required in this zoning district. If that majority
exists, the increase in any yard shall be limited to the average of the
measurements for similar yards (e.g. side or rear) for that majority or to the
increased yard sizes required by this paragraph, whichever is smaller.
R1 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE ZONING DISTRICT
Sec. 601   R1 Single Family Residence District
   601.1   Description and Intent of District.
The R1 District is intended to preserve those residential areas which are best
suited for large lot development and to maintain the character of existing low-
density, single family developments.
   601.2   Permitted Uses
      A.   Single family detached dwellings.
      B.   City of Oakwood uses and structures.
      C.   Parks, playground and recreational uses on land owned or leased by
the City of Oakwood.
      D.   Child Day Care Home Type B.*
      E.   Accessory uses to dwellings, incidental to and on the same zoning
lot as a principal use in accordance with Title 4, General Provisions,
Accessory Uses and Structures.
      *Subject to
Title 9 , Design and Performance Standards.
   601.3   Special Uses subject to the requirements of
Title 10,  Section
1004 , Special Use Permits, as follows:
      A.   Child Day Care Centers (as an accessory use to a religious or
educational institution, the site of which has been designed and developed
specifically for a permanent religious or institutional purpose).*
      B.   Educational institutions as follows:
         1.   Elementary schools.
         2.   Junior and senior high schools.
         3.   Nursery School or Preschool (as an accessory use to a religious
or educational institution, the site of which has been designed and developed
specifically for a permanent religious or institutional purpose).*
      C.   Guest Houses.*
      D.   Land locked residential lots.*
      E.   Living quarters, detached, for persons employed on the premises and
their immediate family.*
      F.   Museums.
      G.   Planned developments, residential.
      H.   Public libraries owned by the City of Oakwood or a non-profit
organization.
      I.   Public utility and service uses, and civic uses, as follows:
         1.   Electrical substations.
         2.   Gas regulator substations.
         3.   Telephone exchange, telephone transmission equipment buildings,
and microwave relay towers, and wireless telecommunications facilities.
         4.   Waterworks, reservoir, pumping station, and filtration plant.
      J.   Religious institutions operated as a non-profit organization
including churches, convents, seminaries, monasteries and religious retreats.
      K.   Semi-circular driveways in front yards.
      L.   Tennis courts on private property.
      M.   Accessory uses and buildings incidental to and on the same zoning
lot as a principal use, in accord with
Title 4 , Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
      N.   Garage, private, when proposed on a zoning lot (as a separate
structure) when an existing attached or detached garage to a principal dwelling
already exists. (Ord. 4512, effective 8/15/02).
      *Subject to
 Title 9 , Design and Performance Standards.
      
   601.4   Conditional Uses subject to the requirements of
Title 10,  Administration, Conditional Use Permits, as follows:
      A.   Temporary uses and events. [1]
      B.   Service sidewalks wider than 5 feet. [2]
      C.   Entrance pillars and gates. [2]
      D.   Driveways wider than twelve (12) feet.
         [1] Subject to
Title 4 , General Provisions, Temporary Uses and Events
         [2]Subject to
Title 9,  Design and Performance Standards
   601.5   Lot Size Requirements
      A.   Permitted Uses
 
                                 Min. Lot       Min. Lot
                                 Area (sq. ft.) Frontage (ft.)
Single family detached dwellings 40,000         125
Parks and Playgrounds         40,000         125
 
      
      B.   Special Uses
 
 
                                     Min. Lot       Min. Lot
                                     Area (sq. ft.) Frontage (ft.)
Planned development (R)              5 acres        None
Public utility and service uses      By Planning Commission
Educational, religious/institutional 3 acres        225
 
      C.   Accessory Uses
Accessory uses may be established on the same lot as a principal use in accord
with
Title 4,  Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
   601.6   Yard Requirements
      A.   Permitted Uses and Structures
 
                        Front Interior Corner Rear
                              Side     Side
Single family dwellings 70'   20'      35'    60'
Parks and playgrounds   No requirements
 
 
      B.   Special Uses and Structures
 
 
                              Front Interior Corner Rear
                                    Side     Side
Planned development (R)       By Planned Development
Public/utility/service        By Planning Commission
Guest house/living quarters   74'   15'      35'    40'
Educ./religious/institutional 70'   45'      45'    60'
 
      C.   Accessory Structures*   
 
               Front Interior Corner Rear
                     Side     Side
All structures 70'   20'      35'    25'
 
* If the entire accessory structure is located behind the rear building line,
the interior side yard and rear yard requirements shall be five (5) feet.
Accessory uses shall also meet the requirements of
Title 4 , Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
      D.   Buffer Yards to Protect Wooded Parks
Buffer yards to protect wooded parks as designated by the City Manager shall be
provided in accord with Section  901.15.
   601.7   Maximum Principal Building Height
No buildings or other structures erected within the R1 District shall exceed
thirty-five (35) feet in height. For structures greater than twenty-five (25)
feet in height, an additional two (2) foot setback shall be required on each
side and rear yards for each one (1) foot in additional height above twenty-
five (25) feet. (see Section 600.5 for special provisions regarding
nonconforming lots).
   601.8   Maximum Floor Area Ratio
In the R1 District, a maximum allowable floor area is established for the
following uses:
 
                                     Floor Area Ratio
Planned developments, residential  See Section
                                     1004
Public utilities and service uses    By Planning Commission
Religious organizations              0.5
Educational institutions          0.4
 
   601.9   Transitional Yard Screening - Non-Residential Uses
No transition yard is required. However, any new non-residential use authorized
within a residential district under the provisions of this Article, shall meet
the transitional landscaping requirements in Section 1015.7.
   601.10   Related Regulations and Requirements
Other pertinent regulations contained within this Ordinance that shall be
observed include, but are not limited to:
      A.   
Title 4 , General Provisions, Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures
      B.   
Title 4 , General Provisions, Section
403 , Fences, Walls and Terraces
      C.   
Title 4 , General Provisions, Section
404 , Temporary Uses and Events
      D.   
Title 9 , Design and Performance Standards
      E.   
Title 10 , Administration, Section
1012 , Site Development Plan Review
      F.   
Title 11 , Off-Street Parking and Loading Regulations
      G.   
Title 12 , Signs
R2 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE ZONING DISTRICT
Sec. 602   R2 Single Family Residence District
   602.1   Description and Intent of District.
The R2 District is intended to preserve those residential areas which are best
suited for medium to large lot developments and to maintain the character of
existing low-density single family developments.
   602.2   Permitted Uses
      A.   Single family detached dwellings.
      B.   City of Oakwood uses and structures.
      C.   Child Dare Care Home Type B.*
      D.   Parks, playground and recreational uses on land owned or leased by
the City of Oakwood.
      E.   Rectories, parsonages and parish houses.
      F.   Accessory uses to dwellings, incidental to and on the same zoning
lot as a principal use in accordance with
Title 4,  Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
      *Subject to
 Title 9 , Design and Performance Standards.
   602.3   Special Uses subject to the requirements of
Title 10 , Section
1004 , Special Use Permits, as follows:
      A.   Child Day Care Centers (as an accessory use to a religious or
educational institution, the site of which has been designed and developed
specifically for a permanent religious or institutional purpose).*
      B.   Educational institutions as follows:
         1.   Elementary schools
         2.   Junior and senior high schools.
         3.   Nursery School or Preschool (as an accessory use to a religious
or educational institution, the site of which has been designed and developed
specifically for a permanent religious or institutional purpose).*
      C.   Guest Houses.*
      D.   Land locked residential lots.*
      E.   Living quarters, detached, for persons employed on the premises and
their immediate family.*
      F.   Museums.
      G.   Planned developments, residential.
      H.   Public libraries owned by the City of Oakwood or a non-profit
organization.
      I.   Public utility and service uses, and civic uses, as follows:
          1.   Electrical substations.
         2.   Gas regulator substations.
         3.   Telephone exchange, telephone transmission equipment buildings,
and microwave relay towers, and wireless telecommunications facilities.
         4.   Waterworks, reservoir, pumping station, and filtration plant.
      J.   Religious institutions operated as a non-profit organization
including churches, convents, seminaries, monasteries and religious retreats.
      K.   Semi-circular driveways in front yards.
      L.   Tennis courts on private property.
      M.   Accessory uses and buildings incidental to and on the same zoning
lot as a principal use, in accord with
Title 4 , Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
      N.   Garage, private, when proposed on a zoning lot (as a separate
structure) when an existing attached or detached garage to a principal dwelling
already exists. (Ord. 4512, effective 8/15/02).
      *Subject to
Title 9 , Design and Performance Standards.
   602.4   Conditional Uses subject to the requirements of
Title 10 , Administration, Conditional Use Permits, as follows:
      A.   Temporary uses and events. [1]
      B.   Service sidewalks wider than 5 feet. [2]
      C.   Entrance pillars. [2]
      D.   Driveways wider than twelve (12) feet.
         [1] Subject to
Title 4 , General Provisions, Temporary Uses and Events
         [2]Subject to
Title 9,  Design and Performance Standards
   602.5   Lot Size Requirements
      A.   Permitted Uses
 
                                     Min. Lot       Min. Lot
                                     Area (sq. ft.) Frontage (ft.)
Single family detached dwellings     25,000         100
Rectories, parsonages, parish houses 25,000         100
Parks and Playgrounds             40,000         125
 
      B.   Special Uses   
 
                                     Min. Lot       Min. Lot
                                     Area (sq. ft.) Frontage (ft.)
Planned development (R)              8 acres        None
Public utility and service uses      By Planning Commission
Educational, religious/institutional 3 acres        225
 
      C.   Accessory Uses
Accessory uses may be established on the same lot as a principal use in accord
with Title 4, Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
   602.6   Yard Requirements
      A.   Permitted Uses and Structures
 
                            Front Interior Corner Rear
                                  Side     Side
Single family dwellings     60'   15'      35'    60'
Rectories, parsonages, etc. 60'   15'      35'    50'
Parks and playgrounds       No requirements
 
      B.   Special Uses and Structures
 
                              Front Interior Corner Rear
                                    Side     Side
Planned development (R)       By Planned Development
Public/utility/service        By Planning Commission
Guest house/living quarters   74'   15'      35'    40'
Educ./religious/institutional 70'   45'      45'    60'
 
      C.   Accessory Structures*   
 
               Front Interior Corner Rear
                     Side     Side
All structures 60'   15'      35'    15'
 
* If the entire accessory structure is located behind the rear building line,
the interior side yard and rear yard requirements shall be five (5) feet.
Accessory uses shall also meet the requirements of Title 4, Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
      D.   Buffer Yards to Protect Wooded Parks
Buffer yards to protect wooded parks as designated by the City Manager shall be
provided in accord with Section 901.15.
   602.7   Maximum Principal Building Height
No buildings or other structures erected within the R2 District shall exceed
thirty five (35) feet in height. For structures greater than twenty five (25)
feet in height, an additional two (2) foot setback shall be required on each
side and rear yards for each one (1) foot in additional height above twenty
five (25) feet. (see Section 600.5 for special provisions regarding
nonconforming lots).
   602.8   Maximum Floor Area Ratio
In the R2 District, a maximum allowable floor area is established for the
following uses:
 
                                     Floor Area Ratio
Planned developments, residential  See Section
                                     1004
Public utilities and service uses    By Planning Commission
Religious organizations              0.5
Educational institutions          0.4
 
   602.9   Transitional Yard Screening - Non-Residential Uses
No transition yard is required. However, any new non-residential use authorized
within a residential district under the provisions of this Article, shall meet
the transitional landscaping requirements in Section 1015.7.
   602.10 Related Regulations and Requirements
Other pertinent regulations contained within this Ordinance that shall be
observed include, but are not limited to:
      A.   
Title 4 , General Provisions, Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures
      B.   
Title 4 , General Provisions, Section
403 , Fences, Walls and Terraces
      C.   
Title 4 , General Provisions, Section
404 , Temporary Uses and Events
      D.   
Title 9 , Design and Performance Standards
      E.   
Title 10,  Administration, Section
1012  Site Development Plan Review
      F.   
Title 11 , Off-Street Parking and Loading Regulations
      G.   
Title 12,  Signs
R3 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE ZONING DISTRICT
Sec. 603   R3 Single Family Residence District
   603.1   Description and Intent of District.
The R3 District is intended to preserve those residential areas which are best
suited for medium sized lot development and to maintain the character of
existing low-density single family developments.
   603.2   Permitted Uses
      A.   Single family detached dwellings.
      B.   City of Oakwood uses and structures.
      C.   Child Day Care home Type B.*
      D.   Parks, playground and recreational uses on land owned or leased by
the City of Oakwood.
      E.   Rectories, parsonages and parish houses.
      F.   Accessory uses to dwellings, incidental to and on the same zoning
lot as a principal use in accordance with Title 4, Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
      *Subject to
Title 9,  Design and Performance Standards.
   603.3   Special Uses subject to the requirements of
Title 10 , Section
1004 , Special Use Permits, as follows:
      A.   Child Day Care Centers (as an accessory use to a religious or
educational institution, the site of which has been designed and developed
specifically for a permanent religious or institutional purpose).*
      B.   Educational institutions as follows:
         1.   Elementary schools
         2.   Junior and senior high schools.
         3.   Nursery School or Preschool (as an accessory use to a religious
or educational institution, the site of which has been designed and developed
specifically for a permanent religious or institutional purpose).*
      C.   Guest Houses.*
      D.   Land locked residential lots.*
      E.   Living quarters, detached, for persons employed on the premises and
their immediate family.*
      F.   Museums.
      G.   Planned developments, residential.
      H.   Public libraries owned by the City of Oakwood or a non-profit
organization.
      I.   Public utility and service uses, and civic uses, as follows:
         1.   Electrical substations.
         2.   Gas regulator substations.
          3.   Telephone exchange, telephone transmission equipment buildings,
and microwave relay towers, and wireless telecommunications facilities.
         4.   Waterworks, reservoir, pumping station, and filtration plant.
      J.   Religious institutions operated as a non-profit organization
including churches, convents, seminaries, monasteries and religious retreats.
      K.   Semi-circular driveways in front yards.
      L.   Tennis courts on private property.
      M.   Non-commercial athletic fields, recreational buildings, and
community centers.
      N.   Educational training, laboratory and/or research centers of business
or industrial organizations.
      O.   Accessory uses and buildings incidental to and on the same zoning
lot as a principal use, in accord with
Title 4,  Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
      P.   Garage, private, when proposed on a zoning lot (as a separate
structure) when an existing attached or detached garage to a principal dwelling
already exists. (Ord. 4512, effective 8/15/02).
      *Subject to
Title 9 , Design and Performance Standards.
   603.4   Conditional Uses subject to the requirements of
Title 10 , Administration, Conditional Use Permits, as follows:
      A.   Temporary uses and events.[1]
      B.   Service sidewalks wider than 5 feet. [2]
      C.   Entrance pillars. [2]
         [1] Subject to
Title 4,  General Provisions, Temporary Uses and Events
         [2]Subject to
 Title 9,  Design and Performance Standards
   603.5   Lot Size Requirements
      A.   Permitted Uses   
 
                                     Min. Lot       Min. Lot
                                     Area (sq. ft.) Frontage (ft.)
Single family detached dwellings     12,000         75
Rectories, parsonages, parish houses 12,000         75
Parks and Playgrounds             40,000         125
 
    
      B.   Special Uses
 
 
                                                 Min. Lot       Min. Lot
                                                 Area (sq. ft.) Frontage (ft.)
Planned development (R)                          8 acres        None
Public utility and service uses                  By Planning Commission
Educational, religious/institutional             3 acres        225
Recreational/community centers                   80,000         175
Education, laboratory and/or research centers of 6 acres        250
business and industry
 
      C.   Accessory Uses
Accessory uses may be established on the same lot as a principal use in accord
with Title 4, Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
   603.6   Yard Requirements   
      A.   Permitted Uses and Structures
 
                            Front Interior Corner Rear
                                  Side     Side
Single family dwellings     40'   10'      30'    40'
Rectories, parsonages, etc. 40'   10'      30'    40'
Parks and playgrounds       No requirements
 
      B.   Special Uses and Structures
 
                                      Front Interior Corner Rear
                                            Side     Side
Planned development (R)               By Planned Development
Public/utility/service                By Planning Commission
Guest house/living quarters           37'   10'      30'    46'
Educ./religious/institutional         74'   45'      45'    60'
Recreation/community centers          58'   23'      40'    115'
Athletic Fields                       No requirements
Education, laboratory and/or research No building to be within 70' of any line
centers of business and industry
 
      C.   Accessory Structures*
 
 
               Front Interior Corner Rear
                     Side     Side
All structures 40'   10'      30'    10'
 
* If the entire accessory structure is located behind the rear building line,
the interior side yard and rear yard requirements shall be five (5) feet.
Accessory uses shall also meet the requirements of
Title 4 , Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
      D.   Buffer Yards to Protect Wooded Parks
Buffer yards to protect wooded parks as designated by the City Manager shall be
provided in accord with Section 901.15.
 
   603.7   Maximum Principal Building Height
No buildings or other structures erected within the R3 District shall exceed
thirty-five (35) feet in height. For structures greater than twenty-five (25)
feet in height, an additional two (2) foot setback shall be required on each
side and rear yards for each one (1) foot in additional height above twenty-
five (25) feet. (see Section 600.5 for special provisions regarding
nonconforming lots).
   603.8   Maximum Floor Area Ratio
In the R3 District, a maximum allowable floor area is established for the
following uses:
 
                                              Floor Area Ratio
Planned developments, residential          See Section
                                              1004
Public utilities and service uses             By Planning Commission
Religious organizations                       0.5
Educational institutions                   0.4
Recreation building and community centers     0.4
Educa., training, laboratory research centers 0.4
 
   603.9   Transitional Yard Screening - Non-Residential Uses
No transition yard is required. However, any new non-residential use authorized
within a residential district under the provisions of this Article, shall meet
the transitional landscaping requirements in Section 1015.7.
   603.10 Related Regulations and Requirements
Other pertinent regulations contained within this Ordinance that shall be
observed include, but are not limited to:
      A.   
Title 4 , General Provisions, Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures
      B.   
Title 4,  General Provisions, Section
403 , Fences, Walls and Terraces
      C.   
Title 4,  General Provisions, Section
404 , Temporary Uses and Events
      D.   
Title 9 , Design and Performance Standards
      E.   
Title 10,  Administration, Section
1012 , Site Development Plan Review
      F.   
Title 11 , Off-Street Parking and Loading Regulations
      G.   
Title 12 , Signs
 
R4 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE ZONING DISTRICT
Sec. 604   R4 Single Family Residence District
   604.1   Description and Intent of District.
The R4 District is intended to preserve those residential areas which are best
suited for small sized lot developments and to maintain the character of
existing low-density single family developments.
   604.2   Permitted Uses
      A.   Single family detached dwellings.
      B.   City of Oakwood uses and structures.
      C.   Child Day Care Homes Type B.*
      D.   Parks, playground and recreational uses on land owned or leased by
the City of Oakwood.
      E.   Rectories, parsonages and parish houses.
      F.   Accessory uses to dwellings, incidental to and on the same zoning
lot as a principal use in accordance with
Title 4,  Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
      *Subject to
Title 9,  Design and Performance Standards.
   604.3   Special Uses subject to the requirements of
Title 10 , Section
1004 , Special Use Permits, as follows:
      A.   Child Day Care Centers (as an accessory use to a religious or
educational institution, the site of which has been designed and developed
specifically for a permanent religious or institutional purpose).*
      B.   Educational institutions as follows:
         1.   Elementary schools.
         2.   Junior and senior high schools.
         3.   Nursery School or Preschool (as an accessory use to a religious
or educational institution, the site of which has been designed and developed
specifically for a permanent religious or institutional purpose).*
      C.   Land locked residential lots.*
      D.   Museums.
      E.   Planned developments, residential.
      F.   Public libraries owned by the City of Oakwood or a non-profit
organization.
      G.   Public utility and service uses, and civic uses, as follows:
         1.   Electrical substations.
         2.   Gas regulator substations.
         3.   Telephone exchange, telephone transmission equipment buildings,
and microwave relay towers, and wireless telecommunications facilities.
         4.   Waterworks, reservoir, pumping station, and filtration plant.
       H.   Religious institutions operated as a non-profit organization
including churches, convents, seminaries, monasteries and religious retreats.
      I.   Semi-circular driveways in front yards.
      J.   Tennis courts on private property.
      K.   Non-commercial athletic fields, recreational buildings, and
community centers.
      L.   Educational training, laboratory and/or research centers of business
or industrial organizations.
      M.   Accessory uses and buildings incidental to and on the same zoning
lot as a principal use, in accord with
Title 4 , Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
      N.   Garage, private, when proposed on a zoning lot (as a separate
structure) when an existing attached or detached garage to a principal dwelling
already exists. (Ord. 4512, effective 8/15/02).
      *Subject to
Title 9,  Design and Performance Standards.
   604.4   Conditional Uses subject to the requirements of
Title 10 , Administration, Conditional Use Permits, as follows:
      A.   Temporary uses and events. [1]
      B.   Service sidewalks wider than 5 feet. [2]
      C.   Entrance pillars. [2]
         [1] Subject to
Title 4 , General Provisions, Temporary Uses and Events
         [2]Subject to
Title 9 , Design and Performance Standards
   604.5   Lot Size Requirements
      A.   Permitted Uses
 
                                     Min. Lot       Min. Lot
                                     Area (sq. ft.) Frontage (ft.)
Single family detached dwellings     8,000          75
Rectories, parsonages, parish houses 8,000          75
Parks and Playgrounds             40,000         125
 
      B.   Special Uses
 
                                                 Min. Lot       Min. Lot
                                                 Area (sq. ft.) Frontage (ft.)
Planned development (R)                          4 acres        None
Public utility and service uses                  Planning Commission
Educational, religious/institutional             40,000         150
Recreational/community centers                   40,000         150
Education, laboratory and/or research centers of 6 acres        250
business and industry
 
      C.   Accessory Uses
Accessory uses may be established on the same lot as a principal use in accord
with Title 4, Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
   604.6   Yard Requirements
      A.   Permitted Uses and Structures
 
                            Front Interior Corner Rear
                                  Side     Side
Single family dwellings     25'   6'       15'    40'
Rectories, parsonages, etc. 25'   6'       15'    40'
Parks and playgrounds       No requirements
 
   B.   Special Uses and Structures
 
 
                                      Front Interior Corner Rear
                                            Side     Side
Planned development (R)               By Planned Development
Public/utility/service                By Planning Commission
Educ./religious/institutional         35'   15'*     25'*   75'
Recreation/community centers          35'   15'*     25'*   75'
Athletic Fields                       No requirements
Education, laboratory and/or research No building to be within 75' of any line
centers of business and industry
 
         *Plus 1' for each 2' by which the building height exceeds 15'.
      C.   Accessory Structures*
 
               Front Interior Corner Rear
                     Side     Side
All structures 25'   6'       15'    3'
 
* If the entire accessory structure is located behind the rear building line,
the interior side yard and rear yard requirements shall be three (3) feet.
Accessory uses shall meet the requirements Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
      D.   Buffer Yards to Protect Wooded Parks
Buffer yards to protect wooded parks as designated by the City Manager shall be
provided in accord with Section 901.15.
   604.7   Maximum Principal Building Height
No buildings or other structures erected within the R4 District shall exceed
thirty-five (35) feet in height. For structures greater than twenty-five (25)
feet in height, an additional two (2) foot setback shall be required on each
side and rear yards for each one (1) foot in additional height above twenty-
five (25) feet. (see Section 600.5 for special provisions regarding
nonconforming lots).
 
   604.8   Maximum Floor Area Ratio
In the R4 District, a maximum allowable floor area is established for the
following uses:
 
                                              Floor Area Ratio
Planned developments, residential             See Section
                                              1004
Public utilities and service uses             By Planning Commission
Religious organizations                       0.5
Educational institutions                      0.4
Recreation building and community centers     0.4
Educa., training, laboratory research centers 0.4
 
   604.9   Transitional Yard Screening - Non-Residential Uses
No transition yard is required. However, any new non-residential use authorized
within a residential district under the provisions of this Article, shall meet
the transitional landscaping requirements in Section 1015.7.
   
   604.10 Related Regulations and Requirements
Other pertinent regulations contained within this Ordinance that shall be
observed include, but are not limited to:
      A.   
Title 4,  General Provisions, Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures
      B.   
Title 4,  General Provisions, Section
403 , Fences, Walls and Terraces
      C.   
Title 4 , General Provisions, Section
404 , Temporary Uses and Events
      D.   
Title 9,  Design and Performance Standards
      E.   
Title 10 , Administration, Section
1012 , Site Development Plan Review
      F.   
Title 11 , Off-Street Parking and Loading Regulations
      G.   
Title 12 , Signs
R5 TWO - FAMILY RESIDENCE ZONING DISTRICT
Sec. 605   R5 Two- Family Residence District
   605.1   Description and Intent of District.
The R5 District is intended to preserve those residential areas which are best
suited for small sized lot developments and to maintain the character of
existing low-density single family developments. Both single family and two
family dwellings are anticipated in this district.
   605.2   Permitted Uses
      A.   Single family detached dwellings.
      B.   Two family detached dwellings.
      C.   City of Oakwood uses and structures.
      D.   Child Day Care Homes Type B.*
      E.   Parks, playground and recreational uses on land owned or leased by
the City of Oakwood.
      F.   Rectories, parsonages and parish houses.
      G.   Accessory uses to dwellings, incidental to and on the same zoning
lot as a principal use in accordance with
Title 4,  Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
         *Subject to
 Title 9 , Design and Performance Standards.
   605.3   Special Uses subject to the requirements of
Title 10 , Section
1004 , Special Use Permits, as follows:
      A.   Child Day Care Centers (as an accessory use to a religious or
educational institution, the site of which has been designed and developed
specifically for a permanent religious or institutional purpose).*
      B.   Educational institutions as follows:
         1.   Elementary schools
         2.   Junior and senior high schools.
         3.   Nursery School or Preschool (as an accessory use to a religious
or educational institution, the site of which has been designed and developed
specifically for a permanent religious or institutional purpose).*
      C.   Land locked residential lots.*
      D.   Museums.
      E.   Planned developments, residential.
      F.   Public libraries owned by the City of Oakwood or a non-profit
organization.
      G.   Public utility and service uses, and civic uses, as follows:
         1.   Electrical substations.
         2.   Gas regulator substations.
          3.   Telephone exchange, telephone transmission equipment buildings,
and microwave relay towers, and wireless telecommunications facilities.
         4.   Waterworks, reservoir, pumping station, and filtration plant.
      H.   Religious institutions operated as a non-profit organization
including churches, convents, seminaries, monasteries and religious retreats.
      I.   Semi-circular driveways in front yards.
      J.   Tennis courts on private property.
      K.   Non-commercial athletic fields, recreational buildings, and
community centers
      L.   Educational training, laboratory and/or research centers of business
or industrial organizations.
      M.   Accessory uses and buildings incidental to and on the same zoning
lot as a principal use, in accord with
 Title 4 , Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
      N.   Garage, private, when proposed on a zoning lot (as a separate
structure) when an existing attached or detached garage to a principal dwelling
already exists. (Ord. 4512, effective 8/15/02).
         *Subject to
Title 9, Design and Development Standards.
   605.4   Conditional Uses subject to the requirements of
Title 10 , Administration, Conditional Use Permits, as follows:
      A.   Temporary uses and events. [1]
      B.   Service sidewalks wider than 5 feet. [2]
      C.   Entrance pillars. [2]
         [1] Subject to
Title 4 , General Provisions, Temporary Uses and Events
         [2]Subject to
Title 9,  Design and Performance Standards
   605.5   Lot Size Requirements
      A.   Permitted Uses
 
                                     Min. Lot       Min. Lot
                                     Area (sq. ft.) Frontage (ft.)
Single family detached dwellings     6,000          50
Rectories, parsonages, parish houses 6,000          50
Parks and Playgrounds             40,000         125
 
      B.   Special Uses      
 
                                                 Min. Lot       Min. Lot
                                                 Area (sq. ft.) Frontage (ft.)
Planned development (R)                          2.5 acres      None
Public utility and service uses                  Planning Commission
Educational, religious/institutional             40,000         150
Recreational/community centers                   40,000         150
Education, laboratory and/or research centers of 6 acres        250
business and industry
 
      C.   Accessory Uses
Accessory uses may be established on the same lot as a principal use in accord
with Title 4, Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
   605.6   Yard Requirements
      A.   Permitted Uses and Structures
 
                            Front Interior Corner Rear
                                  Side     Side
Single family dwellings     25'   5'       15'    35'
Two-family dwellings        25'   5'       15'    35'
Rectories, parsonages, etc. 25'   5'       15'    35'
Parks and playgrounds       No requirements
 
      B.   Special Uses and Structures
 
                                      Front Interior Corner Rear
                                            Side     Side
Planned development (R)               By Planned Development
Public/utility/service                By Planning Commission
Educ./religious/institutional         35'   15'*     25'*   75'
Recreation/community centers          35'   15'*     25'*   75'
Athletic Fields                       No requirements
Education, laboratory and/or research No building to be within 75' of any line
centers of business and industry
 
      *Plus 1' for each 2' by which the building height exceeds 15'.
      C.   Accessory Structures*
 
               Front Interior Corner Rear
                     Side     Side
All structures 25'   5'       15'    3'
 
   * If the entire accessory structure is located behind the rear building
line, the interior side yard and rear yard requirements shall be three (3)
feet. Accessory uses shall meet the requirements of Section
402 , Accessory Uses / Structures.
   605.7   Maximum Principal Building Height
No buildings or other structures erected within the R5 District shall exceed
thirty-five (35) feet in height. For structures greater than twenty-five (25)
feet in height, an additional two (2) foot setback shall be required on each
side and rear yards for each one (1) foot in additional height above twenty-
five (25) feet. (see Section 600.5 for special provisions regarding
nonconforming lots).
 
   605.8   Maximum Floor Area Ratio
In the R5 District, a maximum allowable floor area is established for the
following uses:
 
                                              Floor Area Ratio
Planned developments, residential          See Section
                                              1004
Public utilities and service uses             By Planning Commission
Religious organizations                       0.75
Educational institutions                   0.6
Recreation building and community centers     0.6
Educa., training, laboratory research centers 0.6
 
   605.9   Transitional Yard Screening - Non-Residential Uses
No transition yard is required. However, any new non-residential use authorized
within a residential district under the provisions of this Article, shall meet
the transitional landscaping requirements in Section 1015.7.
   605.10 Related Regulations and Requirements
Other pertinent regulations contained within this Ordinance that shall be
observed include, but are not limited to:
      A.   
Title 4 , General Provisions, Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures
      B.   
Title 4 , General Provisions, Section
403 , Fences, Walls and Terraces
      C.   
Title 4,  General Provisions, Section
404 , Temporary Uses and Events
      D.   
Title 9,  Design and Performance Standards
      E.   
Title 10,  Administration, Section
1012 , Site Development Plan Review
      F.   
Title 11,  Off-Street Parking and Loading Regulations
      G.   
Title 12 , Signs
 
R6 GENERAL RESIDENCE ZONING DISTRICT
Sec. 606   R6 Residence District
   
   606.1   Description and Intent of District.
The R6 District is intended for low density multiple family residential areas
compatible with the character of both existing low-density single family areas
and commercial areas of the community.
   606.2   Permitted Uses
      A.   Single family detached residential uses.
      B.   Two family residential uses.
      C.   Multiple family Dwellings.
      D.   City of Oakwood uses and structures.
      E.   Child Day Care Homes Type B.*
      F.   Parks, playground and recreational uses on land owned or leased by
the City of Oakwood.
      G.   Rectories, parsonages and parish houses.
      H.   Accessory uses to dwellings, incidental to and on the same zoning
lot as a principal use in accordance with
Title 4 , Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
      I.   Transitional use approved under prior ordinance. (Ord. 4484,
effective 4/19/01).
         *Subject to
Title 9 , Design and Performance Standards.
   606.3   Special Uses subject to the requirements of
Title 10 , Section
1004 , Special Use Permits, as follows:
      A.   Assisted Living Facility.
      B.   Child Day Care Centers.*
      C.   Senior Citizen Housing.
      D.   Educational institutions as follows:
         1.   Elementary schools
         2.   Junior and senior high schools.
         3.   Nursery School or Preschool (as an accessory use to a religious
or educational institution, the site of which has been designed and developed
specifically for a permanent religious or institutional purpose).*
      E.   Land locked residential lots.*
      F.   Museums.
      G.   Planned developments, residential.
      H.   Public libraries owned by the City of Oakwood or a non-profit
organization.
      I.   Public utility and service uses, and civic uses, as follows:
          1.   Electrical substations.
         2.   Gas regulator substations.
         3.   Telephone exchange, telephone transmission equipment buildings,
and microwave relay towers, and wireless telecommunications facilities.
         4.   Waterworks, reservoir, pumping station, and filtration plant.
      J.   Religious institutions operated as a non-profit organization
including churches, convents, seminaries, monasteries and religious retreats.
      K.   Semi-circular driveways in front yards.
      L.   Tennis courts on private property.
      M.   Non-commercial athletic fields, recreational buildings, and
community centers
      N.   Educational training, laboratory and/or research centers of business
or industrial organizations.
      O.   Structured parking, above grade.
      P.   Accessory uses and buildings incidental to and on the same zoning
lot as a principal use, in accord with
Title 4 , Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
      Q.   Garage, private, when proposed on a zoning lot (as a separate
structure) when an existing attached or detached garage to a principal dwelling
already exists. (Ord. 4512, effective 8/15/02).
         *Subject to
Title 9 , Design and Performance Standards.
   606.4   Conditional Uses subject to the requirements of
Title 10 , Administration, Conditional Use Permits, as follows:
      A.   Temporary uses and events.[1]
      B.   Service sidewalks wider than five (5) feet. [2]
      C.   Entrance pillars. [2]
         [1] Subject to T
itle 4,  General Provisions, Temporary Uses and Events
         [2]Subject to
 Title 9,  Design and Performance Standards
   606.5   Lot Size Requirements
      A.   Permitted Uses
 
                                     Min. Lot       Min. Lot
                                     Area (sq. ft.) Frontage (ft.)
Single family detached dwellings     6,000          50
Two-family dwellings                 6,000          60
Rectories, parsonages, parish houses 6,000          50
Parks and Playgrounds             25,000         100
Multiple-family dwellings            3,000/d.u.*    50'
 
*Maximum of four dwellings per zoning lot, not more than one of which may be an
efficiency dwelling unit.
 
      B.   Special Uses
 
                                                 Min. Lot       Min. Lot
                                                 Area (sq. ft.) Frontage (ft.)
Planned development (R)                          4 acres        None
Public utility and service uses                  By Planning Commission
Educational, religious/institutional             25,000         100
Recreational/community centers                   25,000         100
Education, laboratory and/or research centers of 6 acres        250
business and industry
 
      C.   Accessory Uses
Accessory uses may be established on the same lot as a principal use in accord
with Title 4, Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
   606.6   Yard Requirements   
      A.   Permitted Uses and Structures
 
                            Front Interior Corner Rear
                                  Side     Side
Single family dwellings     20'   5'       12'    35'
Two-family dwellings        35'   10'*     20'*   50'
Multiple family dwelling    35'   10'*     20'*   50'
Rectories, parsonages, etc. 20'   5'       12'    35'
Parks and playgrounds       No requirements
 
   *Plus 1' for each 2' by which the building height exceeds 15'.
      B.   Special Uses and Structures
 
                                      Front Interior Corner Rear
                                            Side     Side
Planned development (R)               By Planned Development
Public/utility/service                By Planning Commission
Educ./religious/institutional         35'   10'*     20'*   50'
Recreation/community centers          35'   10'*     20'*   50'
Athletic Fields                       No requirements
Education, laboratory and/or research No building to be within 75' of any line
centers of business and industry
 
      *Plus 1' for each 2' by which the building height exceeds 15'.
  
      C.   Accessory Structures*
 
                                                 Front Interior Corner Rear
                                                       Side     Side
Structures accessory to single family uses       20'   5'       12'    3'
Structures accessory to two- and multiple-family 20'   5'       12'**  3"
uses
 
* If the entire accessory structure is located behind the rear building line,
the interior side yard and rear yard requirements shall be three (3) feet.
Accessory uses shall also meet the requirements of
Title 4 , Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
      ** Plus 1' for each 5' by which the building height exceeds 25'.
   606.7   Maximum Principal Building Height
No buildings or other structures erected within the R6 District shall exceed
thirty five (35) feet in height. For structures greater than twenty five (25)
feet in height, an additional two (2) foot setback shall be required on each
side and rear yards for each one (1) foot in additional height above twenty
five (25) feet. (see Section 600.5 for special provisions regarding
nonconforming lots).
   606.8   Maximum Floor Area Ratio
In the R6 District, a maximum allowable floor area is established for the
following uses:
                                              Floor Area Ratio
Multiple family dwellings                     1.0
Planned developments, residential          See Section
                                              1004
Public utilities and service uses             By Planning Commission
Religious organizations                       1.0
Educational institutions                   0.8
Recreation building and community centers     0.8
Educa., training, laboratory research centers 0.8
 
   606.9   Major Site Development Plan Review
      A.   Development activity in the R6 District may require Major Site
Development Plan Review. Conditions requiring Major Site Development Plan
Review include any one or more of the following:
         1.   Any new building or structure, or
         2.   A building expansion of twenty five (25) percent or more of the
then existing floor area [1]
         3.   A change in use(s) which requires a greater number of parking
spaces than the prior use.
   [1]Shall be cumulative for all incremental building additions subsequent to
the amendatory date of this Ordinance (date).
   606.10 Transitional Yard Screening Required
Any new multiple family use shall meet the transitional landscaping
requirements in Section 1015.7.
   606.11 Related Regulations and Requirements
Other pertinent regulations contained within this Ordinance that shall be
observed include, but are not limited to:
      A.   
Title 4,  General Provisions, Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures
      B.   T
itle 4 , General Provisions, Section
403 , Fences, Walls and Terraces
      C.   
Title 4,  General Provisions, Section
404 , Temporary Uses and Events
      D.   
Title 9,  Design and Performance Standards
      F.   
Title 10 , Administration, Section
1012 , Site Development Plan Review
      G.   
Title 11 , Off-Street Parking and Loading Regulations
      H.   
Title 12,  Signs
 
R7 GENERAL RESIDENCE ZONING DISTRICT
Sec. 607   R7 Residence District
   607.1   Description and Intent of District.
The R7 District is intended for higher density multiple family residential
areas compatible with the character of both existing low-density single family
areas and commercial areas of the community.
   607.2   Permitted Uses
      A.   Single family detached residential uses.
      B.   Two family residential uses.
      C.   Multiple family Dwellings.
      D.   City of Oakwood uses and structures.
      E.   Child Day Care Homes Type B.*
      F.   Parks, playground and recreational uses on land owned or leased by
the City of Oakwood.
      G.   Rectories, parsonages and parish houses.
      H.   Accessory uses to dwellings, incidental to and on the same zoning
lot as a principal use in accordance with
 Title 4 , Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
*Subject to T
itle 9 , Design and Performance Standards.
   607.3   Special Uses subject to the requirements of
Title 10 , Section
1004 , Special Use Permits, as follows:
      A.   Assisted Living Facility.
      B.   Child Day Care Centers.*
      C.   Senior Citizen Housing.
      D.   Educational institutions as follows:
         1.   Elementary schools.
         2.   Junior and senior high schools.
         3.   Nursery School or Preschool (as an accessory use to a religious
or educational institution, the site of which has been designed and developed
specifically for a permanent religious or institutional purpose).*
      E.   Land locked residential lots.*
      F.   Museums.
      G.   Planned developments, residential.
      H.   Public libraries owned by the City of Oakwood or a non-profit
organization.
       I.   Public utility and service uses, and civic uses, as follows:
         1.   Electrical substations.
         2.   Gas regulator substations.
         3.   Telephone exchange, telephone transmission equipment buildings,
and microwave relay towers, and wireless telecommunications facilities.
         4.   Waterworks, reservoir, pumping station, and filtration plant.
      J.   Religious institutions operated as a non-profit organization
including churches, convents, seminaries, monasteries and religious retreats.
      K.   Semi-circular driveways in front yards.
      L.   Tennis courts on private property.
      M.   Non-commercial athletic fields, recreational buildings, and
community centers
      N.   Educational training, laboratory and/or research centers of business
or industrial organizations.
      O.   Structured parking, above grade.
      P.   Accessory uses and buildings incidental to and on the same zoning
lot as a principal use, in accord with T
itle 4 , Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
         *Subject to
Title 9,  Design and Performance Standards.
   607.4   Conditional Uses subject to the requirements of Title 10,
Administration, Conditional Use Permits, as follows:
      A.   Temporary uses and events. [1]
      B.   Service sidewalks wider than five (5) feet. [2]
      C.   Entrance pillars. [2]
      D.   Accessory food stores, snack bars and physical health facilities.
[2]
         [1] Subject to
Title 4,  General Provisions, Temporary Uses and Events
         [2]Subject to
Title 9 , Design and Performance Standards
   607.5   Lot Size Requirements
   A.   Permitted Uses
                                     Min. Lot       Min. Lot
                                     Area (sq. ft.) Frontage (ft.)
Single family detached dwellings     6,000          50
Two-family dwellings                 6,000          60
Rectories, parsonages, parish houses 6,000          50
Parks and Playgrounds             25,000         100
Multiple-family dwellings            1,400/d.u.*    50'
One bedroom or efficiency Dwelling   900/d.u.**     50'
Senior Citizen/Assisted Living Units 2,500/d.u.     60'
 
      *In no case shall the minimum lot area be less than 6,000 sq. ft.
**The number of efficiency units calculated at this minimum shall not exceed
fifty (50) percent of the total units otherwise permitted were the entire
zoning lot developed with efficiency units. Efficiency units planned to be
developed greater than fifty (50) percent of the allowable maximum number of
units shall be based on a minimum lot area of 1,400 sq. ft.
   B.   Special Uses
 
                                                 Min. Lot       Min. Lot
                                                 Area (sq. ft.) Frontage (ft.)
Planned development (R)                          4 acres        None
Public utility and service uses                  By Planning Commission
Educational, religious/institutional             25,000         100
Recreational/community centers                   25,000         100
Education, laboratory and/or research centers of 6 acres        250
business and industry
 
      C.   Accessory Uses
Accessory uses may be established on the same lot as a principal use in accord
with Title 4, Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
   607.6   Yard Requirements   
      A.   Permitted Uses and Structures
 
                            Front Interior Corner Rear
                                  Side     Side
Single family dwellings     20'   5'       12'    35'
Two-family dwellings        35'   10'*     20'*   50'
Multiple family dwelling    35'   10'*     20'*   50'
Rectories, parsonages, etc. 20'   5'       12'    35'
Parks and playgrounds       No requirements
 
      *Plus 1' for each 2' by which the building height exceeds 15'.
      
      B.   Special Uses and Structures
 
                                      Front Interior Corner Rear
                                            Side     Side
Planned development (R)               By Planned Development
Public/utility/service                By Planning Commission
Educ./religious/institutional         35'   10'*     20'*   50'
Recreation/community centers          35'   10'*     20'*   50'
Athletic Fields                       No requirements
Education, laboratory and/or research No building to be within 75' of any line
centers of business and industry
 
      *Plus 1' for each 2' by which the building height exceeds 15'.
 
      C.   Accessory Structures*
Structures accessory
 
 
                                                 Front Interior Corner Rear
                                                       Side     Side
Structures accessory to single family uses       20'   5'       12'    3'
Structures accessory to two- and multiple-family 20'   5'       12'**  3"
uses
 
* If the entire accessory structure is located behind the rear building line,
the interior side yard and rear yard requirements shall be three (3) feet.
Accessory uses shall also meet the requirements of
Title 4,  Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
** Plus 1' for each 5' by which the building height exceeds 25'.
   607.7   Maximum Principal Building Height
No buildings or other structures erected within the R7 District shall exceed
thirty-five (35) feet in height. For structures greater than twenty-five (25)
feet in height, an additional two (2) foot setback shall be required on each
side and rear yards for each one (1) foot in additional height above twenty-
five (25) feet. (see Section 600.5 for special provisions regarding
nonconforming lots).
   607.8   Maximum Floor Area Ratio
In the R7 District, a maximum allowable floor area is established for the
following uses:
                                              Floor Area Ratio
Multiple family dwellings                     1.5*
Planned developments, residential          See Section
                                              1004
Public utilities and service uses             By Planning Commission
Religious organizations                       1.2
Educational institutions                   1.0
Recreation building and community centers     0.8
Educa., training, laboratory research centers 0.8
 
*If seventy five (75) percent of the required off-street parking spaces are
provided underground, the maximum floor area ratio shall be 2.0
   607.9   Major Site Development Plan Review
      A.   Development activity in the R7 District may require Major Site
Development Plan Review. Conditions requiring Major Site Development Plan
Review include any one or more of the following:
      1.   Any new building or structure, or
      2.   A building expansion of twenty five (25) percent or more of the then
existing floor area [1]
      3.   A change in use(s) which requires a greater number of parking spaces
than the prior use.
[1]Shall be cumulative for all incremental building additions subsequent to the
amendatory date of this Ordinance.
   607.10 Transitional Yard Screening Required
Any new multiple family use shall meet the transitional landscaping
requirements in Section 1015.7.
 
   607.11 Related Regulations and Requirements
Other pertinent regulations contained within this Ordinance that shall be
observed include, but are not limited to:
      A.   
Title 4 , General Provisions, Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures
      B.   
Title 4 , General Provisions, Section
403 , Fences, Walls and Terraces
      C.   
Title 4,  General Provisions, Section
404 , Temporary Uses and Events
      D.   
Title 9 , Design and Performance Standards
      E.   
Title 10 , Administration, Section
1012 , Site Development Plan Review
      F.   
Title 11,  Off-Street Parking and Loading Regulations
      G.   
Title 12,  Signs
 
TITLE 7. BUSINESS ZONING DISTRICTS
Sec. 700   Business Districts Generally
   700.1   Purpose of the Business Districts As a Class
The business districts set forth herein are established to protect public
health, promote public safety and convenience, and enhance the economic base of
the City of Oakwood. The business districts divide the City of Oakwood into two
basic business classifications deemed necessary to meet the business, commerce,
service and retailing needs of the community.
   700.2   General Conditions
      A.   Dwelling units above 1st floor are allowed as a special use.
      B.   Business establishments are restricted to a minimum gross floor area
of six hundred twenty-five (625) square feet each and a maximum gross floor
area of 18,750 square feet each, exclusive of floor area devoted to off-street
parking and loading facilities.
      C.   All business establishments shall be retail or service
establishments dealing directly with consumers. All goods produced on the
premises shall be sold or rented as retail on the premises where produced.
      D.   All business, service, storage and display of goods shall be
conducted within a completely enclosed structures, except:
         1.   Off-street parking and loading.
         2.   Recreational uses.
         3.   Temporary uses and events.
         4.   Accessory Uses.
         5.   Outdoor seating areas.
         6.   Uses allowed and controlled under a Special Use Permit.
      E.   All on-site utility lines, but excluding high-tension power lines,
shall be located underground.
      F.   All electric meters, downspouts, utility boxes, and other
appurtenances shall be incorporated internally to the structure or be of
compatible material and color to the principal structure.
      G.   At the discretion of the Planning Commission and City Council,
blanket cross- easements for vehicle access may be obtained generally parallel
to the interior of front property lines. Said easements are intended to provide
for effective motor vehicle access minimizing access to public streets.
Easements will not be required where a frontage road system has been
established.
      H.   Uses shall be open to the public only between the hours of 7 A.M.
and 9 P.M., except as maybe permitted to the contrary as a special use and
except that offices and travel/transportation ticket businesses may
occasionally be open at other times without need of special use approval. At
the close of business, all lights not necessary for security purposes shall be
extinguished.
 
   700.3   Special Provisions in the NB Neighborhood Business District
All uses in the Neighborhood Business District, whether permitted, special or
conditional, shall be subject to the provisions of this section.
      A.   No wholesale uses shall be permitted to the extent that any goods
produced or sold on the premises must be sold or rented on the premises at
retail to consumers.
NB NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT
Sec. 701   NB Neighborhood Business District
701.1   Description and Intent of District.
The NB District is intended to serve immediate neighborhoods and the community
with a wide range of retail goods and services. The district is intended for
application for smaller development parcels, proximate to residential areas.
The district should be located along a collector or arterial street.
   701.2   Permitted Uses
      The following uses are permitted in the NB District:
      Article supply
      Antique Store
      Bakeries
      Banks/financial institutions
      Barber shops
      Beauty parlor/salon/spa
      Book/stationary store
      Brokerage firm
      Candy/ice-cream
      China/glassware
      City of Oakwood uses and structures
      Coffee shop
      Custom dressmaking
      Dry cleaning
      Fitness/health/wellness service
      Florist
      Furrier shop
      Gift shop
      Hobby shop
      Interior decorating
      Jewelry store
      Leather goods
      Music store
      Offices, service and business
      Office supply
      Personal services
      Shoe stores
      Shoe/clothing/hat repair
      Tailor shop
      Tanning booth
      Temporary uses and events*
      Tobacco shop
      Travel bureau
      Wearing apparel
      * See Section
404 , Temporary Uses and Events
 
   701.3   Special Uses subject to the requirements of
Title 10 , Section
1004 , Special Use Permits, as follows:
      Catering services
      Child Day Care Center*
      Delicatessens*
      Dwelling units above first floor*
      Museums owned by the City of Oakwood
      Outdoor seating
      Planned development - business
      Public libraries
      Public utility and service uses
      Shared parking**
      Structured Parking (integrated w/principal use)
      Uses operating before 7:00 am/ after 9:00 pm
Retail or service uses of scale and intensity similar to uses permitted under
Section 701.2 but not permitted as of right
      *Subject to
Title 9 , Design and Performance Standards.
      **Subject to
Title 11, Off-Street Parking and Loading.
   701.4   Lot Size Requirements
      A.   In the Neighborhood Business District, there shall be no minimum lot
area requirements.
   701.5   Setback Requirements - Principal and Accessory Uses and Structures
      A.   Front yard: The minimum front yard depth shall be the smaller of the
alternative measurements set forth below:
         1.   The average front yard depth for all uses then existing in that
block and on the same side of the street as the Neighborhood Business District
lot in question; or
         2.   The front yard depth that exists on a majority of all uses in
that block on the same side of the street as the lot in question. Yards that
are approximately equal in depth (i.e., maximum depth Variance of five (5) feet
from the largest to the smallest such lot) shall be deemed to be of the same
depth for the purpose of determining if there is a majority yard size.
      B.   Transitional yards:
         1.   Where a side lot line in a NB District coincides with a side or
rear lot line in an adjacent residence district, a side yard equal to or
greater than the minimum residential side yard shall be provided.
         2.   Where a rear lot line in a NB District coincides with a side lot
line in an adjacent residence district, a rear yard equal to or greater than
the minimum residential side yard shall be provided.
         3.   Where a rear lot line in a NB District coincides with a rear lot
line in an adjacent residence district, a rear yard shall be provided. That
yard shall be not less than six (6) feet in depth. However, a structure not to
exceed eighteen (18) feet in height may be built in such required rear yard as
long as it is no closer to the rear lot line than the distance of a required
side yard in the adjacent residential district plus one (1) foot.
          4.   Where the extension of a front or side lot line in a NB District
coincides with a front lot line of an adjacent lot located in a residence
district, a yard no less in depth than the minimum required residential front
yard shall be provided.
            [1] See Section 1015.7 for Transition Setback landscaping
requirements.
   701.6   Accessory Uses and Structures
Accessory uses shall also meet the requirements of
Title 4,  Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
   701.7   Floor Area Ratio
      The floor area ratio in the Neighborhood Business District shall not
exceed 2.0.
   701.8   Maximum Principal Building Height
No building or structure shall be structurally erected or altered to exceed
thirty-five (35) feet.
   701.9   Site Development Plan Review and Business District Design Review
Guidelines
      A.   Development activity in the NB District may require Major Site
Development Plan Review. Conditions requiring Major Site Development Plan
Review include any one or more of the following:
         1.   Any new building or structure, or
         2.   A building expansion of twenty five (25) percent or more of the
then existing floor area [1]
         3.   A change in use(s) which requires a greater number of parking
spaces than the prior use.
[1]Shall be cumulative for all incremental building additions subsequent to the
amendatory date of this Ordinance (date).
      B.   In the event of any modification of the exterior of any existing
building, including but not limited to, colors, building mass and style,
architectural details, facade, doors, windows, awnings, signage, lighting and
planting schemes and in the event of the construction of any new building,
awning, signage or lighting all of the provisions of the City of Oakwood
Business District Design Guidelines shall apply. These regulations can be found
in Section
1016 .
      C.   Any development requiring Major Site Development Plan approval shall
meet the transitional landscaping requirements in Section 1015.7.
   701.10 Related Regulations and Requirements
Other pertinent regulations contained within this Ordinance that shall be
observed include, but are not limited to:
      A.   
Title 4,  General Provisions, Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures
      B.   
Title 4,  General Provisions, Section
403 , Fences, Walls and Terraces
      C.   
Title 4,  General Provisions, Section
404 , Temporary Uses and Events
      D.   
Title 9 , Design and Performance Standards
       E.   
Title 10,  Administration, Section
1012 , Site Development Plan Review
      F.   
Title 11,  Off-Street Parking and Loading Regulations
      G.   
Title 12,  Signs
 
CB COMMUNITY BUSINESS DISTRICT
Sec. 702   CB Community Business District
   702.1   Description and Intent of District.
The CB District is intended to provide a mix of retail and general business
uses within the community. It includes uses which are generally compatible with
a traditional "downtown" shopping environment. The district is appropriate for
application in the City's core commercial area along Far Hills Avenue.
   702.2   Permitted Uses
      The following uses are permitted in the CB District:
      Antique store
      Article supply
      Appliance store
      Bakeries
      Banks/financial institutions
      Barber shops
      Beauty parlor/salon/spa
      Book/stationary store
      Brokerage firm
      Business/office machine
      Camera/photography
      Candy/ice-cream
      Carpet/rug
      Catering services
      China/glassware
      City of Oakwood uses and structures
      Coffee shop
      Consumer electronics
      Copy center - retail printing services
      Custom dressmaking
      Delicatessens*
      Department store
      Drug store/pharmacy
      Dry cleaning
      Electronics store
      Fitness/health/wellness service
      Florist
      Food/grocery/supermarket
      Furniture store
      Furrier shop
      Garden supply
      Gift shop
      Hardware store
      Hobby shop
      House ware and Kitchen
      Interior decorating
      Interior furnishing
      Jewelry store
      Leather goods
      Medical/dental office
      Medical/dental laboratory
      Music store
      Musical instrument sales
      News paper distribution agency
      Offices, service and business
      Office supply
      Optical sales
      Pet Grooming Studio
      Personal services
      Photographic studio
      Post Office
      Restaurants*
      Shoe stores
      Shoe/clothing/hat repair
      Sporting goods
      Tailor shop
      Tanning booth
      Temporary Uses and Events**
      Tobacco shop
      Travel bureau
      Undertaking/funeral parlor
      Veterinary hospital or clinic
      Wearing apparel
      Wine shop
      ** See Section
404 , Temporary Uses and Events.
      *Subject to
Title 9 , Design and Performance Standards.
   702.3   Special Uses subject to the requirements of
Title 10,  Section
1004 , Special Use Permits, as follows:
      Child day care centers*
      Coffee shops and delicatessens selling beer and wine*
      Commercial parking lots and structures
      Dwelling units above first floor*
      Museums owned by the City of Oakwood
      Off-site, off-street parking
      Outdoor sales
      Outdoor Seating
      Planned development - business
      Printing and publishing establishments
      Public libraries
      Public utility and service uses
      Restaurants/coffee shops (not meeting standards)*
      Shared parking**
      Structured parking (integrated w/principal use)
      Theaters
      Uses operating before 7:00 am/ after 9:00 pm
Retail or service uses of scale and intensity similar to uses permitted under
Section 702.2 but not permitted as of right
      *Subject to
Title 9 , Design and Performance Standards.
      **Subject to
Title 11 , Off-Street Parking and Loading.
 
   702.4   Lot Size Requirements
      A.   In the Community Business District, there shall be no minimum lot
area requirements.
   
   702.5   Setback Requirements - Principal and Accessory Uses and Structures
      A.   Front yard: The minimum front yard depth shall be the smaller of the
alternative measurements set forth below:
         1.   The average front yard depth for all uses then existing in that
block and on the same side of the street as the Community Business District lot
in question; or
         2.   The front yard depth that exists on a majority of all uses in
that block on the same side of the street as the lot in question. Yards that
are approximately equal in depth (i.e., maximum depth Variance of five (5) feet
from the largest to the smallest such lot) shall be deemed to be of the same
depth for the purpose of determining if there is a majority yard size.
      B.   Corner side yards: The minimum corner side yard depth that is
required for all permitted business uses existing in that block shall be twelve
(12) feet.
      C.   Transitional yards:
         1.   Where a side lot line in a CB District coincides with a side or
rear lot line in an adjacent residence district, a side yard equal to or
greater than the minimum residential side yard shall be provided.
         2.   Where a rear lot line in a CB District coincides with a side lot
line in an adjacent residence district, a rear yard equal to or greater than
the minimum residential side yard shall be provided.
         3.   Where a rear lot line in a CB District coincides with a rear lot
line in an adjacent residence district, a rear yard shall be provided. That
yard shall be not less than six (6) feet in depth. However, a structure not to
exceed eighteen (18) feet in height may be built in such required rear yard as
long as it is no closer to the rear lot line than the distance of a required
side yard in the adjacent residential district plus one (1) foot.
         4.   Where the extension of a front or side lot line in a CB District
coincides with a front lot line of an adjacent lot located in a residence
district, a yard no less in depth than the minimum required residential front
yard shall be provided.
         [1] See Section 1015.7 for Transition Setback landscaping
requirements.
   702.6   Accessory Uses and Structures
Accessory uses shall also meet the requirements of
Title 4 , Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures.
   702.7   Floor Area Ratio
The floor area ratio in the Community Business District shall not exceed 2.0.
If seventy five (75) percent or more of the required off-street parking spaces
are provided underground, the maximum allowable floor area ratio shall be 3.0.
 
   702.8   Maximum Principal Building Height
No building or structure shall be structurally erected or altered to exceed
thirty-five (35) feet.
   702.9   Site Development Plan Review and Business District Design Review
Guidelines
      A.   Development activity in the CB District may require Major Site
Development Plan Review. Conditions requiring Major Site Development Plan
Review include any one or more of the following:
         1.   Any new building or structure, or
         2.   A building expansion of twenty five (25) percent or more of the
then existing floor area [1]
         3.   A change in use(s) which requires a greater number of parking
spaces than the prior use.
[1]Shall be cumulative for all incremental building additions subsequent to the
amendatory date of this Ordinance.
      B.   In the event of any modification of the exterior of any existing
building, including but not limited to, colors, building mass and style,
architectural details, facade, doors, windows, awnings, signage, lighting and
planting schemes and in the event of the construction of any new building,
awning, signage or lighting all of the provisions of the City of Oakwood
Business District Design Guidelines shall apply. These regulations can be found
in Section
1016 .
      C.   Any development requiring Major Site Development Plan approval shall
meet the transitional landscaping requirements in Section 1015.7.
   702.10 Related Regulations and Requirements
Other pertinent regulations contained within this Ordinance that shall be
observed include, but are not limited to:
      A.   
Title 4,  General Provisions, Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures
      B.   
Title 4, General Provisions, Section
403 , Fences, Walls and Terraces
      C.   
Title 4,  General Provisions, Section
404 , Temporary Uses and Events
      D.   
Title 9,  Design and Performance Standards
      E.   
Title 10 , Administration, Section
1012 , Site Development Plan Review
      F.   
Title 11 , Off-Street Parking and Loading Regulations
      G.   
Title 12 , Signs
TITLE 8. SPECIAL PURPOSE DISTRICTS
Sec. 800   Purpose
   
   800.1   Purpose of Title
This Title establishes several "special purpose" zoning districts. These
districts are intended to deal with special development situations, or unique
physical conditions of the community. Special regulatory protection and control
is required to serve the public interest in these situations.
C CEMETERY DISTRICT
Sec. 801   C Cemetery District
   801.1   Purpose
The C Cemetery District is designed to establish an area solely for cemeteries,
wherein all cemetery purposes and functions within the City of Oakwood are to
be accommodated.
   801.2   Permitted Uses
      A.   Each of the following principal uses shall be permitted only in the
C District. No such use of properties shall be permitted in any other district,
even if operated by a religious or benevolent society, except that a church in
any residential district may include a columbarium as an accessory use within
the building that includes the church to the extent that such a columbarium
occupies not more than twenty (20) percent of the total floor area of the
primary room of assembly in that church.
         1.   Burial of the body of any deceased person.
         2.   Burial of the ashes of any deceased person after cremation.
         3.   Burial of any cinerary urn or other vessel containing the ashes
of any deceased person after cremation.
         4.   Erection or maintenance of any tomb, crypt, burial vault,
mausoleum, columbarium, or any other structure above or below ground level to
serve as a depository for the body of a deceased person, for the ashes of a
deceased person after cremation, or for any cinerary urn or other vessel
containing the ashes of any deceased person after cremation.
         5.    Erection of any gravestone, gravemarker, plaque, or monument to
memorialize any deceased person, or to mark or memorialize the burial or
depository site of any deceased person, or of the ashes of any deceased person,
or of any cinerary urn containing the ashes of any deceased person.
         6.   Exceptions: Notwithstanding any provision of this section that
would appear to prohibit the following uses of property, such uses shall be
permitted as described below:
            a.   Erection of memorial plaques or monuments shall be allowed on
public land owned by any City or by the Oakwood School District, regardless of
the zoning district in which that land is located.
             b.   Use of any residence dwelling by its occupants as the place
of safekeeping (depository) for the ashes of any deceased person(s), who were
or was related by blood, marriage or adoption to those occupants, regardless of
the zoning district in which the residence is located. Such use must be
terminated immediately if the dwelling is no longer used as a residence by
individuals so related to any such deceased person(s).
      B.   The following accessory uses shall be permitted in the C District:
         1.   Access driveways and walks for operation of any principal use.
         2.   Avenues, walks, grounds and shrubbery for ornamental and
aesthetic purposes.
         3.   Funeral processions and ceremonies.
   801.3   Yard Requirements
Any principal permitted or accessory use in C District shall be set back no
less than one hundred (100) feet each from the front, side and rear lot lines.
Where a lot is to be occupied for a permitted use without buildings, the side
yards and front yard required for such lot shall be provided and maintained
unless otherwise stipulated in this Ordinance, except that side yard shall not
be required on lots used for garden purposes without buildings or structures or
on lots used for public recreation areas.
   801.4   Proximity to Dwellings
None of the principal purposes permitted in this Section shall be located
within one hundred fifty (150) feet of a dwelling.
   801.5   Site Development Plan Review - Applicability
Site development plan review is not applicable to this district.
   801.6   Related Regulations and Requirements
Other pertinent regulations contained within this Ordinance that shall be
observed include, but are not limited to:
      A.   
Title 4 , General Provisions, Section
403 , Fences, Walls and Terraces
      B.   
Title 4,  General Provisions, Section
404 , Temporary Uses and Events
      C.   
Title 9,  Design and Performance Standards
      D.   
Title 11 , Off-Street Parking and Loading Regulations
      E.   
Title 12 , Signs
 
MU MULTI-USE SPECIAL PLANNING DISTRICT
Sec. 802   MU Multi-Use Special Planning District
   802.1   Description and Intent of District.
Development within this district shall be by planned development special use
only, shall be consistent with the Oakwood Comprehensive Plan and must be in
accordance with a Master Development Plan for the district if the City has
adopted such a plan. Any such Master Development Plan may control (or describe
a procedure by which delegated control may be exercised by the administrative
staff of the City) to what extent, if any, various uses are to be permitted in
the district, design considerations, building bulk requirements, signs and
other exterior features, parking and loading and all other matters of any
nature whatsoever relating to the development.
All development shall comply also with the requirements contained in Section
1001  Planned Developments. In the absence of any Master Plan, The City's
Comprehensive Plan and Planned Development Regulations shall guide the review
process.
   802.2   Uses Allowed
The following uses, individually or in combination, may be allowed or may be
disallowed, based upon review of the Planned Development plan in comparison to
the Comprehensive Plan and any master development plan and under the procedures
and standards for Special Use Permits, Section
1004 :
      A.   Residential uses allowed in any of the R-1 through R-7 zoning
districts, consistent with the multi-use plan for the site.
      B.   Office, business or professional as allowed in the B zoning
district.
      C.   Retail uses allowed in the B zoning district, secondary to the
office/residential character of the site.
      D.   Related recreational uses.
      E.   Rest home.*
         *Subject to
Title 9 , Design and Performance Standards.
   802.3   Special Design Considerations
      A.   Design shall be in accordance with the Oakwood Comprehensive Plan
and all approved supplemental reports and graphics.
      B.   To be emphasized within this district are the following design
considerations:
         1.   The coordination of land use areas
         2.   Building sites
         3.   Access points
         4.   Internal circulation
         5.   Parking areas
         6.   Flood control facilities
         7.   Drainage
         8.   Open space systems
 
   802.4   Building Bulk Requirements   
      A.   Building bulk requirements, including maximum building height and/or
floor area ratio, shall be subject to the review and approval of the
development plan.
      B.   Minimum lot size for development within this district shall be
determined by property ownership or control and the requirements of the
Comprehensive Plan and any approved supplemental area plans.
   802.5   Signs, Fences, and Other Exterior Features
      A.   Signs and all other graphics shall comply with all pertinent
provisions of this Section and the Master Plan, and with all approved
supplemental reports and graphics.
      B.   Fences, screening and landscaping shall be controlled pursuant to
all applicable provisions of this Ordinance, the Comprehensive Plan, and all
approved supplemental reports and graphics.
   802.6   Off-Street Parking and Loading
      A.   Off-street parking and loading shall conform to the design
considerations contained in the Comprehensive Plan and all approved
supplemental reports and graphics.
      B.   Numbers and sizes of required parking spaces and loading berths
shall be determined by the pertinent requirements contained in this Ordinance.
   802.7   Master Plan Approval
A Master Plan of development must be prepared which details the proposed site
development. A master plan of development can be submitted separately of or in
combination with a petition for approval under the multi-use planning district.
Any Master Plan of Development shall be subject to public hearing by the
Planning Commission and Adoption by the City Council in the same manner as an
approval for a Special Use Permit (Section
1004) . The Master Plan shall include, at a minimum, the following elements:
      A.   A completed application form provided by the Building Commissioner.
      B.   The names and addresses of the persons responsible for preparing the
plan.
      C.   The present zoning of the site and adjoining property.
      D.   A separate site development plan shall be prepared to show the
general location, dimensions, size and height of the following regarding the
proposed development:
         1.   Proposed new buildings and structures.
         3.   Driveways, entrances, exits, parking areas and sidewalks.
         4.   Recreation areas.
         5.   Natural and artificial watercourses and bodies of water and
wetlands.
         6.   Calculations of the following, as applicable:
         7.   Natural and artificial watercourses and bodies of water and
wetlands.
         8.   Limits of flood plains.
         9.   General alignment and lengths of all streets and all property
lines.
         10.   Date, scale and north arrow.
         11.   Landscape plan.
         12.   Lighting plan.
         13.   Existing development on the site including principal and
accessory buildings, off-street parking and loading areas, and other
improvements, as applicable.
         14.   Exterior building elevations of all proposed structures and
exterior elevations of existing buildings when existing buildings are proposed
to be structurally altered. Elevations shall indicate the materials to be used
in the design of the structure and the proposed color scheme.
         15.   A location map locating the site in relation to the nearest
intersection of two or more streets at a scale that can be easily traced.
      E.   Any other information that may reasonably be required by the City
Council, Planning Commission or Building Commissioner as the case may be.
   802.8   Related Regulations and Requirements
Other pertinent regulations contained within this Ordinance that shall be
observed include, but are not limited to:
      A.   
Title 4 , General Provisions, Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures
      B.   
Title 4 , General Provisions, Section
403 , Fences, Walls and Terraces
      C.   
Title 4,  General Provisions, Section
404 , Temporary Uses and Events
      D.   
Title 9 , Design and Performance Standards
      E.   
Title 10 , Administration, Section
1012 , Site Development Plan Review
      F.   
Title 11 , Off-Street Parking and Loading Regulations
      G.   
Title 12 , Signs
WO WELLHEAD OPERATION DISTRICT
Sec. 803   WO Wellhead Operation District
   803.1   Purpose
It is the purpose of the Wellhead Operation District (sometimes referred to as
the WO District) to safeguard the public health, safety and welfare of the
customers of protected public water supplies and to protect the community's
potable water supply against contamination by regulating land use and the
storage, handling, use and/or production of regulated substances as defined in
this Ordinance.
   803.2   Boundaries of Wellhead Operation District
The Wellhead Operation District is limited to land owned by the City of Oakwood
located at 120 Springhouse Road and 20 Rubicon Road, being lots 3926, 3927 and
pt. lot 2667.
   803.3   Permitted Uses
Permitted uses of land and buildings shall be only those hereinafter listed. No
building or zoning lot shall be devoted to any use other than such a use, with
the exception of uses lawfully established on or before the effective date of
this Ordinance (nonconforming uses), and the following uses:
      A.   Municipal water supply: Municipal water supply, treatment, storage
and operations facilities in accordance with the City of Oakwood's plan for
water supply and treatment.
      B.   Recreation: Public parks, and playgrounds.
   803.4   Special Uses: subject to the requirements of
Title 10,  Section
1004 , Special Use Permits, as follows:
      Public utility uses:
      A.   Electric and telephone substations.
      B.   Gas regulator and meter station buildings.
      C.   Electric and communication transmission towers and structures.
   803.5   Groundwater Protection Standards
      Within this Wellhead Operation District, the following standards shall
apply:
      A.   Use and/or storage of regulated substances in conjunction with
public water supply and treatment activities shall not be restricted by this
Section.
      B.   Use of regulated substances in conjunction with public parks and
playgrounds shall be in accordance with the City's Pollution Prevention and
Corrective Action Plan now or subsequently adopted by the City.
      C.   Use of regulated substances in conjunction with special uses in this
district shall be limited to:
         1.   Aggregate of Regulated Substances: The aggregate of regulated
substances in use may not exceed twenty (20) gallons or one hundred and sixty
(160) pounds at any time.
         2.   Total Use of Regulated Substances: The total use of regulated
substances may not exceed fifty (50) gallons or four hundred (400) pounds in
any twelve (12) month period.
         3.   A limited exclusion from the provisions of Paragraph C.1. and
C.2. above is authorized for non-routine maintenance or repair of property or
equipment. The use of regulated substances under this exclusion shall be
limited to:
            a.   The aggregate of regulated substances in use may not exceed
fifty (50) gallons or four hundred (400) pounds at any time.
            b.   The total use of regulated substances may not exceed one
hundred (100) gallons or eight hundred (800) pounds in any twelve (12) month
period.
      D.   Underground storage of fuels and lubricants for vehicle operations
and any other regulated substances is prohibited.
      E.   As part of the findings required under this Section, and prior to
issuance of a zoning certificate or a Certificate of Occupancy, the Oakwood
Building Commissioner shall utilize the hazard potential rating system
(identified in Section 804.6 herein) to assist in the determination of
intensity of use within this district. No substitutions of a nonconforming use
shall be permitted which result in an increase of the hazard potential rating
on a parcel within this district.
      F.   All uses within this district are presently connected to the public
wastewater disposal system and shall remain so connected for the life of the
use. Any new uses, which require wastewater disposal shall be connected to the
public wastewater disposal system.
      G.   Dry wells are prohibited in the WO District.
   803.6   Reporting Requirements
      See Subsection 804.7 for reporting requirements.
   803.7   Enforcement Provisions
      See Subsection 804.8 for enforcement provisions.
   803.8   Related Regulations and Requirements
Other pertinent regulations contained within this Ordinance that shall be
observed include, but are not limited to:
      A.
   Title 4,  General Provisions, Section
402 , Accessory Uses and Structures
      B.   
Title 4,  General Provisions, Section
403 , Fences, Walls and Terraces
      C.   
Title 4,  General Provisions, Section
404 , Temporary Uses and Events
      D.   
Title 9 , Design and Performance Standards
      E.   
Title 11 , Off-Street Parking and Loading Regulations
      F.   
Title 12 , Signs
WF WELLFIELD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT
Sec. 804   WF Wellfield Protection Overlay District
   804.1   Purpose
It is the purpose of the Well Field Protection Overlay District (sometimes
referred to as the WP District) to safeguard the public health, safety and
welfare of the customers of protected public water supplies and to protect the
community's potable water supply against contamination by regulating land use
and the storage, handling, use and/or production of "regulated substances" as
defined in this Ordinance.
   804.2   Boundaries of Well Field Protection Overlay District
The land within the Well Field Protection Overlay District is the one (1) year
capture area, i.e., that land in the City of Oakwood that lies within a one (1)
year travel time contour around existing and proposed public wells of the
protected public water supply. The Well Field Protection Overlay District
includes much of the north/northeast quadrant of the City.
   804.3   Relationship to Underlying Zoning Districts
The provisions of this Section shall be applicable to all lands shown as being
located within the boundaries of the Well Field Protection Overlay District on
the zoning map and shall be supplemental to the regulations of the underlying
zoning district. Where the requirements of this Section are in conflict with
the regulations of the underlying district, the more restrictive regulations
shall apply.
   804.4   Determination of Applicability
It shall be the responsibility of any person owning real property and/or owning
or operating a business within the City of Oakwood to make a determination of
the applicability of this Section as it pertains to that property and/or
business, and failure to do so shall not excuse any violations of this Section.
   804.5   Permitted Uses
The permitted principal and accessory uses within the Well Field Protection
Overlay District shall be limited to those of the underlying zoning district,
except as those uses may be restricted by this Section.
   804.6   Special Uses
Special uses within the Well Field Protection Overlay District shall be those
of the underlying zoning district, except as those uses may be restricted by
this Section.
   804.7   Conditional Uses
Conditional uses within the Well Field Protection Overlay District shall be
those of the underlying zoning district, except as those uses may be restricted
by this Section.
 
   804.8   Miscellaneous Use, Bulk, and Area Regulations
Miscellaneous use, bulk and area regulations incident to a permitted use,
special use or conditional use within the Well Field Protection Overlay
District shall be those of the underlying zoning district.
   804.9   Prohibited Uses
      Dry wells are prohibited in the WP District.
   804.10 Groundwater Protection Standards
      A.   Restrictions on Storage, Handling and/or Production of Regulated
Substances. Use, storage, handling and/or production of regulated substances in
conjunction with permitted, special or conditional uses in the WP District
shall be limited to:
         1.   Aggregate of Regulated Substances: The aggregate of regulated
substances in use, storage, handling and/or production may not exceed twenty
(20) gallons or one hundred and sixty (160) pounds at any time.
         2.   Total Use of Regulated Substances: The total use, storage,
handling and/or production of regulated substances may not exceed fifty (50)
gallons or four hundred (400) pounds in any twelve (12) month period.
      B.   Exclusions from Groundwater Protection Standards
         1.   Non-Routine Maintenance or Repair of Property. A limited
exclusion from the provisions of this Subsection is authorized for non-routine
maintenance or repair of property or equipment. The use, storage, handling and/
or production of regulated substances under this exclusion shall be limited to:
            a.   The aggregate of regulated substances in use, storage,
handling, and/or production may not exceed fifty (50) gallons or four hundred
(400) pounds at any time.
            b.   The total use, storage, handling and/or production of
regulated substances may not exceed one hundred (100) gallons or eight hundred
(800) pounds in any twelve (12) month period.
         2.   Application of Agricultural Chemicals. A limited exclusion to the
provisions of this Section is authorized for the application of United States
E.P.A. approved agricultural chemicals by licensed personnel using United
States E.P.A. best recommended practices. Below ground applications in excess
of hundred (100) gallons or eight hundred (800) pounds in any twelve (12) month
period shall require 72 hour prior notice to the Building Commissioner.
         3.   Storage of Agricultural Chemicals. A limited exclusion from the
provisions of this Section is authorized for on-site storage of a maximum one
(1)-year supply agricultural chemicals to be used for routine on-site
agricultural operations. This exclusion is subject to the condition that such
substances are stored in standard approved packaging and such chemicals are
applied to cropland under best management practices as indicated by soil tests,
agricultural experts, or label directions approved by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency (U.S.E.P.A.) or the Ohio Department of
Agriculture. This limited exclusion also applies to the application of
agricultural chemicals to cropland where such chemicals are brought in from
other locations. This provision does not exempt such agricultural chemicals
either stored on-site or brought in from other locations from the inventory,
spill reporting and underground storage tank protection requirements of this WP
District.
         4.   Medical and Research Laboratory Use. A limited exclusion from the
provisions of this Section is authorized for each medical and research
laboratory use. This exclusion is subject to the conditions that regulated
substances shall be stored, handled or used in containers not to exceed five
(5) gallons or forty (40) pounds of each substance; and the aggregate inventory
of regulated substances shall not exceed two hundred and fifty (250) gallons or
two thousand (2,000) pounds.
         5.   Cleaning Agents. A limited exclusion from the provisions of this
Section is authorized for regulated substances which are cleaning agents. This
exclusion is subject to the conditions that such cleaning agents are packaged
for personal or household use or are present in the same form and concentration
as a product packaged for use by the general public; and the aggregate
inventory of such cleaning agents shall not exceed one hundred (100) gallons or
eight hundred (800) pounds at any time. In no case, shall regulated substances
claimed under this exclusion include hydrocarbon or halogenated hydrocarbon
solvents.
         6.   Single, Two, Three and Four Family Residences. An exclusion from
the provisions of this Section is authorized for the storage of regulated
substances for maintenance of the residence or of vehicles under control of any
occupant, and for the use of such substances for the same purposes. This
exclusion is conditioned upon the waste amounts of these substances being
disposed of to a permitted solid waste facility or a permitted publicly-owned
wastewater treatment works.
      C.   Underground Storage Tanks. With the exception of residential use of
heating fuels in tanks having a capacity of five hundred fifty (550) gallons or
less, the underground storage of fuel and lubricants for vehicle operations and
of fuel for building and/or process heating in conjunction with valid uses in
this WP District shall be in tanks secondarily contained (as defined by the
Ohio State Fire Marshal, Bureau of Underground Storage Tank Regulation) and
monitored. Such installations shall be subject to approval by the Building
Commissioner.
      D.   Nonconforming Uses - Replacement of Underground Storage Tanks.
Notwithstanding other provisions of this Section, nonconforming uses in this WP
District utilizing underground tanks to store fuel and lubricants for vehicle
operations and fuel for building and/or process heating at the effective date
of this Section shall be permitted to replace existing tanks with those
constructed to meet the specifications of Section 804.5,C., and not exceeding
the capacity of existing tanks. Replacement of underground tanks for regulated
substances other than the above noted fuels and lubricants is not permitted.
      E.   Determination of Intensity of Use. As part of the findings required
under this Ordinance, prior to issuance of a zoning certificate or Certificate
of Occupancy, the Building Commissioner shall utilize the hazard potential
rating system in Section 803.11 to assist in the determination of intensity of
use within this WP District. No substitutions of a nonconforming use shall be
permitted which result in an increase of the hazard potential rating on a
parcel within this WP District. If the quantities of regulated substances
initially exceed the de minimis quantities above, they shall be considered
legally nonconforming. Such legally nonconforming quantities cannot be
increased to any degree or extent, however.
   804.11 Hazard Potential Rating System
In order to assess the risk for potential groundwater contamination, a hazard
potential rating has been developed for various activities categorized by their
Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) code. This rating is based on the kind
of materials commonly associated with each use, looking only at the most
critical hydrologic factors.
Appendix Table 1 lists the site hazard potential by land use activity (source)
on a scale of one (1) to nine (9), with one (1) being a low hazard and nine (9)
a very high hazard. This rating is based on the intrinsic hazards posed by
different land uses and is related to the materials commonly used or stored on
the site or the types and amounts of wastes commonly discharged. This table
refers to many land uses not permitted (and not existing as nonconforming uses)
in the underlying zoning district of any land included in this overlay
district, but that fact shall not be deemed to constitute an express or implied
legislative statement that such uses are permitted by this Section.
Appendix Table 2 below lists the hazard potential determined on the basis of
materials known to be used, stored, or disposed of at a specific site.
If the two tables referenced above indicate different site hazard potential
ratings for the SIC-coded land use activity and the materials found on-site,
the higher of the two scores is the rating for the site.
   804.12 Handling of Regulated Substances
      A.   No person shall place, deposit, or permit to be deposited, store,
process, use, produce, dispose of, transport, or discharge, hereinafter
referred to as "handle," any regulated substance on public or private property
within the City of Oakwood or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City of
Oakwood except as provided by law, statute, Ordinance, rule or regulation.
      B.   Any violation of this Section is hereby determined to be a nuisance
and must be abated.
   804.13 Underground Storage Tanks Declared to Constitute Dangerous Nuisances
      A.   With the exception of the underground storage of fuel and lubricants
for vehicular operations and of fuel for building heating and/or process
heating in conjunction with permitted and special uses in the WP District, any
storage of regulated substances in underground storage tanks within the WP
District shall be deemed to constitute a dangerous nuisance. Every such
nuisance must and shall be abated no later than three (3) years from the
effective date of this Ordinance.
      B.   With the exception of residential use of home heating fuel in tanks
having a capacity of five hundred fifty (550) gallons or less, any underground
storage tank systems for vehicle fuels and lubricants and for fuel for building
and/or process heating within the WP District not removed within three (3)
years from the effective date of this Section must be secondarily contained and
monitored in accordance with plans submitted to and approved by the Building
Commissioner.
 
   804.14 Reporting Requirements
      A.   Regulated Substance Activity Inventory.
         1.   Report forms. The Building Commissioner shall develop the
Regulated Substance Activity Inventory report forms and may modify the forms at
any time in the future as may be deemed appropriate.
         2.   Applicability.
            a.   Except as excluded in accordance with Section 804.14, A. 3,
below, each owner or occupant of any land in the WO or WP Districts at the
effective date of this Ordinance, shall file a Regulated Substance Activity
Inventory report with the Building Commissioner. Said report shall be filed
within one hundred and eighty (180) days of the effective date of this
Ordinance, and follow up reports shall be so filed at twenty-four (24) month
intervals thereafter.
            b.   Except as excluded in accordance with Section 804.14, A, 3
below, any new owner or occupant of any land in the WO or WP Districts shall
file a Regulated Substance Activity Inventory report prior to receipt of a
zoning certificate or a Certificate of Occupancy and at twenty-four (24) month
intervals following the date of occupancy. For purposes of this paragraph,
"new" shall be defined as subsequent to the effective date of this Ordinance.
            c.   Where a person owns, operates or occupies more than one
location, Regulated Substance Activity Inventory reports shall be made for each
location.
         3.   Exclusions from regulated substance activity inventory reporting:
Any exclusion set forth in this subsection shall apply if it does not
substantially increase any risk or hazard to the public health or water supply,
wells or well fields; and further, any spill, leak, discharge or mishandling
shall be subject to the provisions of the subsequent sub- paragraph 2 of this
Section. Any exclusions granted herein shall not remove or limit the liability
and responsibility of any person or activity involved, except as to inventory
reporting.
            a.   A limited exclusion from Regulated Substance Activity
Inventory reporting is hereby authorized for routine uses of regulated
substances provided the uses are limited as follows:
               i.   The aggregate of regulated substances in use may not exceed
twenty (20) gallons or one hundred and sixty (160) pounds at any time.
               ii.   The total use of regulated substances may not exceed fifty
(50) gallons or four hundred (400) pounds in any twelve (12) month period.
             b.   A limited exclusion from Regulated Substance Activity
Inventory reporting is hereby authorized for non-routine maintenance or repair
of property or equipment provided the uses are limited as follows:
               i.   The aggregate of regulated substances in use may not exceed
fifty (50) gallons or four hundred (400) pounds at any time.
               ii.   The total use of regulated substances may not exceed one
hundred (100) gallons or eight hundred (800) pounds in any twelve (12) month
period.
            c.   A limited exclusion from Regulated Substance Activity
Inventory reporting is hereby authorized for regulated substances which are
cleaning agents. This exclusion is subject to the conditions that such cleaning
agents are packaged for personal or household use or are present in the same
form and concentration as a product packaged for use by the general public, and
provided the aggregate inventory of such cleaning agents shall not exceed one
hundred (100) gallons or eight hundred (800) pounds at any time. In no case,
shall regulated substances claimed under the exclusion include hydrocarbon or
halogenated hydrocarbon solvents.
            d.   A limited exclusion from Regulated Substance Activity
Inventory reporting is hereby authorized for medical and research laboratory
uses in the WP District. This exclusion is subject to the conditions that
regulated substances shall be stored, handled or used in containers not to
exceed five (5) gallons or forty (40) pounds of each substance, and the
aggregate inventory of regulated substances shall not exceed two hundred and
fifty (250) gallons or two thousand (2,000) pounds.
            e.   A limited exclusion from Regulated Substance Activity
Inventory reporting is hereby authorized for the transportation of regulated
substances through the WP District. This exclusion is subject to the conditions
that the transportation vehicle is in compliance with applicable local, state,
and federal laws and regulations; and the transportation vehicle is in
continuous transit, making delivery, or is stopped for a period of time not to
exceed seventy-two (72) hours. Reporting is not required if the regulated
substance is fueling the vehicle.
            f.   A limited exclusion from Regulated Substance Activity
Inventory reporting is hereby authorized for owners and occupants of single,
two, three or four family residences in the WP District. This exclusion is
subject to the conditions that the storage and use of regulated substances are
related to the maintenance of the residence or vehicles under control of the
occupants, and waste regulated substances are appropriately disposed of to a
permitted solid waste facility or a permitted publicly-owned wastewater
treatment works.
      B.   Spills, leaks or discharges.
         1.   Any person with direct knowledge of a spill, leak or discharge of
a regulated substance within the WO or WP Districts shall, if such spill, leak
or discharge escapes containment or contacts a pervious ground surface and is
not immediately and completely remediated, give notice to the Building
Commissioner of the City of Oakwood or the Public Safety Department by
telephone within thirty (30) minutes. The notification shall include at a
minimum, the location of the incident, name and telephone number, date and time
thereof, type of substance(s), concentration and volume, and control or
corrective action taken. Such notification shall in no way alleviate other
local, state, and federal reporting obligations as required by law.
         2.   Exclusion to Reporting. The application of agricultural
chemicals, fertilizers, mineral acids, organic sulphur compounds, etc. used in
routine agricultural operations, including plant nutrients and crop protection
materials, applied under best management practices as indicated by soil tests,
agricultural experts, or label directions approved by the United States EPA or
the Ohio Department of Agriculture, shall not be considered a spill, leak, or
discharge subject to the reporting provisions of this paragraph.
         3.   Any entity or person who spills, leaks or discharges said
substance(s) shall be liable for any reasonable expense, loss or damages
incurred by the City of Oakwood in response and for cleanup related to such an
incident, in addition to the amount of any fines imposed on account thereof
under state and federal law; said entity or person shall document and maintain
sufficient records so as to reflect accurately the circumstances related to any
such incident and develop and implement procedures to substantially eliminate
the likelihood of reoccurrence of such spills, leaks or discharges as soon as
practicable following the incident, but no later than one hundred eighty (180)
days after the incident.
   C.   Falsifying information.
No person shall make any false statement, representation, or certification in
any report or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to
this Section.
   804.15 Enforcement Provisions
   A.   Scope
The following enforcement provisions apply to both the WO and WF Districts.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed so as to interfere with
any existing or future lawful requirements that may be, or heretofore were,
imposed by any other public body authorized to enact sanitary, health or water
pollution abatement restrictions so long as such requirements are consistent
with, or more stringent than, the stated purpose of this Section.
   B.   Administration.
The Building Commissioner for the City of Oakwood, shall administer, implement,
and enforce the provisions of this Section.
   C.   Notice of violation.
      1.   Any person found in violation of any provisions of this chapter or
any order, requirement, rule or regulation issued under the authority of this
chapter will be served with a written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing reasonable time for compliance; but such written notice
of violation may be dispensed with under the conditions described in Subsection
804.14. Further, that if the Building Commissioner has previously promulgated a
schedule of compliance or issued an order addressing the same type of or a
similar violation and the time for compliance has passed, the Building
Commissioner may dispense with establishing another time period for compliance.
The Building Commissioner may impose penalties for violation authorized under
Section 1010.5 of this ordinance.
      2.   The notice shall be served in the manner provided by law for the
service of civil process. Where the address of the violator is unknown, service
may be made upon the owner of the property involved at the tax-mailing address
of the owner as shown on the county tax record.
   D.   Inspections.
Subject to applicable provisions of law, the Building Commissioner or
authorized designee bearing proper identification, shall be permitted to enter
private property at any reasonable time, with reasonable cause or with prior
notification, for such purposes as inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and records examination pertaining to the requirements of this
chapter. Upon request of the entity which is the subject of the inspection, and
if permitted by the state public records law, information obtained as a result
of the inspection shall be maintained as confidential. If the owner or tenant
does not consent to the entry of the Building Commissioner, or authorized
designee, the Building Commissioner may apply to a court of competent
jurisdiction for an appropriate warrant or other authority to enter said
property; but no consent is necessary for entry into areas then open to the
public or to customers.
   E.   Public water supply protection authorities.
      1.   Application. If any activity or use of regulated substance is deemed
by the Building Commissioner to pose a real and present danger of contaminating
surface and/or groundwater which would normally enter the public water supply,
the Building Commissioner, in accordance with Section 713.13 of the Ohio
Revised Code, is authorized to:
         a.   Cause cessation of said activity or use of the regulated
substance;
          b.   Require the provision of administrative controls and/or
facilities sufficient to mitigate said danger; and/or
         c.   Cause the provision of pollution control and/or abatement
activities.
      2.   Considerations. When considering the exercise of any of the above
authorities or actions, the Building Commissioner shall consult with the
appropriate administrative official of any potentially affected protected
public water supply. Such consultation shall determine what measures need to be
taken to ensure the public water supply is reasonably and adequately protected
from contamination for the present and the future. The Building Commissioner
may take into consideration any evidence represented by the entity regarding
cost effectiveness and the economic impact imposed by the requirements or
actions.
      3.   Exemption of certain regulated substances. The Building Commissioner
is authorized to exclude certain regulated substances, that pose no threat to
ground water, from the provisions of these regulations. Prior to authorizing
the exemption of any regulated substance, the Building Commissioner shall have
such request for exemption reviewed by the Board of Zoning Appeals. The
recommendation of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be binding on the Building
Commissioner.
      4.   Technical consultants. Upon application for a zoning permit and/or
Certificate of Occupancy for a use within the WO or WF Districts, the Building
Commissioner may employ such technical expertise as needed to ensure compliance
with the provisions of these regulations. All costs incurred in the compliance
review process shall be passed through to the applicant and shall be in
addition to those fees normally charged by the City of Oakwood to review an
application for a zoning permit and/or Certificate of Occupancy.
   F.   Severability.
A finding by any court or other jurisdiction that any part or provision of this
chapter is invalid shall not affect the validity of any other part or provision
of this chapter which can be given effect without the invalid parts or
provisions.
   804.16 Related Regulations and Requirements
Other pertinent regulations contained within this Ordinance that shall be
observed include, but are not limited to:
      A.   
Title 11, Off-Street Parking and Loading Regulations
      B.   
Title 12 , Signs
TRANSITIONAL USE DISTRICT
Sec. 805   Transitional Use District
   805.1   Purpose
The purpose of the Transitional Use District is to provide and maintain an
intermediate or buffer use between adjacent residential uses and the more
intensive business or commercial uses in the Far Hills Avenue Business
District.
   805.2   Boundaries of Transitional Use District
The boundaries of the Transitional Use District include: the buildings at the
southwest corner of West Peach Orchard Road and Far Hills Avenue and at the
southeast corner of East Peach Orchard Avenue and Far Hills Avenue. These
previously approved buildings may be allowed to continue to exist as a
transitional use upon a lot which meets all requirements of transitional uses.
   805.3   Permitted Uses
Permitted uses of land and buildings in transitional areas shall be only those
hereinafter listed.
         City of Oakwood Uses and Structures
         Business and Professional Offices
         Medical/Dental Laboratory
   805.4   Restrictions 
Any transitional use shall be subject to the following conditions which are
intended to impose additional restrictions on this particular type of use.
      1.   The building height shall not exceed two stories nor 25 feet in
height.
      2.   An amount of off-street parking spaces shall be provided on the same
basis as the off- street parking requirements for similar buildings in the
business-zoned area under Section 1102.1 unless a variance is granted.
      3.   In the event of any modification of the exterior of any existing
building, or in the case of new construction, all of the provisions of the city
of Oakwood Business District Design Guidelines shall apply.
   805.5   Site Development Plan Review
Any new principal structure intended for non-residential occupancy, or an
expansion of an existing building which exceeds 25% of the total gross floor
area, shall be subject to the Major Site Development Plan Review requirements
under Section
1013 .
   805.6   Signage
Any signage associated with a transitional use shall be building mounted and be
subject to the restrictions under Section 1208.
Legislative History: Ord. 4694, passed 3/1/2010.
 
TITLE 9. DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
Sec. 900   Purpose and Applicability
   900.1   Purpose of Title
The Design and Performance Standards establish supplemental regulations for
specific land uses authorized elsewhere in the Zoning Ordinance. They are not
intended to substitute for any other requirements of the Ordinance. Rather,
they represent special additional requirements to apply to certain uses
regardless of class of use -- permitted, special, conditional or accessory
uses.
   900.2   Applicability
The standards set forth in this section apply to all uses regardless of whether
they are permitted, special, conditional or accessory uses. The City may
establish additional conditions and requirements for the use under the
conditions as proposed.
Sec. 901   Standards For Specific Uses
   
   901.1   Nursery School or Non-public Preschool
      A.   Applicability
All proposed nursery schools or non-public preschools
      B.   Regulations
When permitted by special use as an accessory use of an existing institution,
these schools should give preference for children of Oakwood residents under
regulations established by the City Council. Any nursery school or preschool
must be licensed by the State of Ohio and meet all the requirements of the
zoning district in which it is located.
   901.2   Day Care Centers
      A.   Applicability
         All proposed child day care centers
   
      B.   Regulations
Any child day care center must be licensed by the State of Ohio and meet all
the requirements of the zoning district in which it is located.
   901.3   Type B Child Day Care Homes
      A.   Applicability
         All proposed day care homes.
 
      B.   Regulations
This section authorizes the City Manager of the City of Oakwood to provide
extra services and other benefits which will accrue to those Type B Homes, both
certified and uncertified, qualifying as being "Registered" with this City.
Those benefits are intended as incentives to encourage those homes to comply
with the standards set by the City of Oakwood. The remainder of this section
authorizes the City Manager to establish those standards.
         1.   The special services and other benefits available to Oakwood
Registered Homes will be those listed from time to time by the City Manager on
a Schedule of Benefits and Standards maintained in the administrative offices
of this City.
         2.   The safety and operating standards applicable to Oakwood
Registered Homes will be those listed from time to time by the City Manager on
that same Schedule of Benefits and Standards.
         3.   Type B Child Day Care Homes are subject to the following
provisions
            a.   No more than one such home may be located within any block,
whether on the same side or the opposite side of the street. In any event, no
such home may be located closer than four hundred (400) feet to any other such
home.
            b.   To protect the safety and welfare of children, all persons
involved in providing child day care in any Type B Home located in this City of
Oakwood, even though uncertified, must comply with the same requirements of
State Statutes 109.57.2, 5104.01.2 and 5104.01.3 as are applicable to child day
care centers, This obligation also is to apply to every other adult residing in
every Type B Home in this City, even though uncertified. As a result, such a
child day care home will not be permitted to operate if any such person has
been convicted of any of the criminal offenses referred to in Sections 109.57.2
and 5104.09 of the Ohio Revised Code. Those offenses include the following
types of crimes:
               i.   Homicide (excluding vehicular homicide).
               ii.   Assault.
               iii.   Menacing.
               iv.   Stalking.
               v.   Kidnapping, abduction or unlawful restraint.
               vi.   Child stealing or criminal child enticement.
               vii.   Extortion or coercion.
               viii.   Any sex offense.
               ix.   Violation of Ohio criminal statutes regarding obscenity.
               x.   Domestic violence.
               xi.   Possession or discharge of weapon.
               xii.   Contributing to the unruliness or delinquency or a minor.
 
   901.4   Standards for the Placement of Flagpoles
      A.   Applicability
         All zoning districts
   
      B.   Regulations
One flagpole may be permitted in any yard if in accordance with the following
conditions:
         1.   The flagpole shall be used solely for the display of not more
than two (2) flags so long as the combined area of one side of the flags does
not exceed sixty (60) square feet, unless a larger size is approved as a
Special Use.
         2.   The flagpole may not be used for any type of sign nor for any
other purpose.
         3.   The flags displayed may not be used for commercial advertising
purposes.
         4.   The flagpole may not project more than thirty-five (35) feet
above the average grade of the property, except as may be approved as a Special
Use.
         5.   The flagpole must be self sustaining and may not be supported by
braces, guywires or other supports.
         6.   The diameter of the flagpole must be similar to standard or
customary flagpoles of the same height.
         7.   Illumination shall be so designed, placed, shielded or arranged
so as illuminate the flag only, not to cause glare, light or reflection upon
adjacent premises or upon the adjacent street.
         8.   Every flagpole must be erected sufficiently far from any power or
telecommunication lines so as not to cause a hazard.
         9.   All flagpoles must be set back a minimum of twelve (12) feet from
all property lines.
         10.   In any residential zoning district, a flag larger than sixty
(60) square feet and/or a flagpole projecting more than thirty-five (35) feet
above the average grade of the property may be approved as a Special Use,
pursuant to Section
1004 .
   901.5   Storage of Non-Passenger Vehicles - Oversized Vehicles
      A.   Applicability
         All residential zoning districts
      B.   Regulations
         1.   The following restrictions shall apply to any trailer, boat,
camper, self- propelled vehicle, any item of construction equipment not
expressly permitted as an accessory use, and to any combination of such objects
(other than passenger cars and other vehicles with Ohio noncommercial truck
license plates, or equivalent plates from other states), which at any point
exceeds any of the dimensions set forth below. Throughout this section, any
reference to "such vehicle" shall refer not only to any single oversized
trailer, boat, etc., but also to any oversized combination:
            a.   Height: 7 feet (measured from ground level) plus an additional
1-1/2' for accessories, but no antenna shall be measured in determining the
height.
            b.   Width: 7'.
            c.   Length: 20'.
         2.   It shall not constitute a permitted or accessory use or structure
for any such vehicle to be parked, placed or stored upon, or to occupy, land
zoned for residential purposes, except to the extent authorized by this
Section.
         3.   No person shall occupy such a vehicle for living purposes (nor
similarly occupy any trailer, boat, camper or self-propelled vehicle,
regardless of its size) upon land zoned for residential purposes unless:
            a.   The vehicle has been erected or constructed upon the land in a
permanent manner as a residential building and in compliance with all
requirements of building and fire codes, and other statutes, ordinances and
regulations, which apply to conventional single-family residential buildings.
            b.   The vehicle so erected or constructed into a permanent
residential building is the principal building and principal use on the lot,
and no other such oversize object is situated upon the lot.
         4.   During the day (commencing at sunrise and ending at sunset of the
same day) only one such vehicle (sometimes called an "object") may be parked,
placed or stored upon, or may occupy, any residential zoning lot, and such use
must be on the following conditions:
            a.   Any such object shall be situated upon adequately drained
material or substance having a minimum weight bearing capacity of 4,000 pounds
per square foot and must be situated in a surplus or required rear yard.
            b.   This limitation to only one such object on residential land
during the day shall not apply to any object within a permanent and completely
enclosed structure situated on the lot in accordance with the zoning
regulations of this City, which structure has transparent and/or translucent
portions not exceeding 20% of its floor area.
         5.   During the night, however, (commencing at sunset and ending at
sunrise of the following day) no such object may be parked, placed or stored
upon, or may occupy, any portion of such residential zoning lot, except as set
forth below:
             a.   This restriction shall not apply if the object is within a
permanent and completely enclosed structure situated on the lot in accordance
with the zoning regulations of this City, which structure has transparent and/
or translucent portions not exceeding 20% of its floor area.
            b.   This restriction shall not apply to the extent a Special Use
has been granted so as to permit the object to occupy the surplus or required
rear yard.
            c.   This restriction shall not apply if the object has been
transformed into a permanent residential structure as described in 3 above.
            d.   This restriction shall not apply during the time such object
is on the premises in the active procedure of delivering or picking up people
or items of property or in the active procedures of construction,
reconstruction or repair of the land or improvements thereon, or during service
to the premises of the City.
            e.   This restriction shall not apply to one such object on the
land for a total of 45 nights in each calendar year with no more than seven of
those nights to be used consecutively at any one time, with any such object to
be situated upon adequately drained material or substance having a minimum
weight bearing capacity of 4,000 pounds per square foot and must be situated in
a required or surplus rear yard or corner side yard. Any such parking,
placement, storage or occupancy which occurs, or continues, during any portion
of a night shall be credited as one complete night against the total of 45
nights permitted under this exception. Further to claim the benefit of this
exception notice must be given to the City of the date(s) any one or more of
the permitted 45 nights will be used. Such notice may be given in writing, in
person or by use of the telephone,, and shall be given as soon as reasonably
possible after an adult occupant of the premises is aware that such an object
is, or will be, on the premises during the nighttime.
   901.6   Guest Houses and Detached Living Quarters for Persons Residing on
Premise
      A.   Applicability
         All residential zoning districts
      B.   Regulations
Guest houses and living quarters may not exceed 1,000 square feet of useable
floor area, except in proportion to the amount by which the lot exceeds 40,000
square feet. In all other residential zoning districts, living quarters are
permitted as an accessory use on lots larger than 25,000 sq. ft. with a minimum
lot width of one hundred (100) feet.
   901.7   Land Locked Parcels
      A.   Applicability
         All zoning districts
 
      B.   Regulations
The City Manger may approve development of landlocked parcels, or at his or her
discretion, may refer the approval of the same to the Planning Commission and
City Council. Approval of development of a land locked parcel shall be subject
to the following minimum conditions:
         1.   The parcel must abut or receive direct access to a private street
which is connected to a public street in a distance of no more than four
hundred (400) feet
         2.   The private access drive be built or improved to meet
specifications as set forth by the City; and
         3.   Subject to a recorded easement providing for access of
governmental personnel and equipment for the protection of the public peace,
health, safety and welfare and acknowledging the owners of such private street
have responsibility for the maintenance thereof and that the City has no
obligation for maintenance, snow removal or enforcement of traffic regulations
thereon, and that the access way is treated entirely as other private property
in the community; and
         4.   Any conditions deemed appropriate in advancing the purposes of
this Ordinance of the interests of the City of Oakwood.
   901.8   Service Walks Wider Than Five Feet
      A.   Applicability
         All residential zoning districts.
      B.   Regulations
Service walks wider than five (5) feet must be located, and their use must be
conditioned, so that they may not be used for operation of motor vehicles other
than yard maintenance equipment. The location and terms and condition of use of
such walks shall be approved by the City Manager.
   901.9   Entrance Pillars
      A.   Applicability
         All residential zoning districts.
      B.   Regulations
Entrance pillars may be approved by the City Manager subject to the following
standards:
         1.   The principal structure on the zoning lot must be set back a
minimum of fifty feet from the street right-of-way (i.e. the right-of-way
toward which the drive or walk bordered by the entrance pillars leads).
          2.   The height and size of entrance pillars shall be controlled by
the lot width (on the side of the lot served by the pillars) and by the
setback, as follows:
 
Setback      Width of  Total  Foot
Measured as  Lot       Height Print
in (1) above at Street
Under 50'    75'       None   None
50'          75'       4'     4 Sq. Ft.
75'          90'       5'     4 Sq. Ft.
100'         105'      6'     6.25 Sq. Ft.
125'         120'      7'     6.25 Sq. Ft.
150'         140'      8'     9 Sq. Ft.
 
      No pillar shall exceed eight feet in height or have a greater footprint
than nine square feet.
         3.   The pillars will not be in the public right-of-way except to the
extent allowed by a written agreement with the City which is approved as to
form by the City Attorney.
         4.   Such pillars and any decorative wall attached thereto must be at
least five feet away from the nearest driveway on any adjoining lot.
         5.   Entrance pillars may border driveways and may also border
walkways leading to the principal structure on the lot. No more than four
entrance pillars may be located on any lot. (Amended Ord. 4582, passed 5/2/05,
effective 6/2/05).
         6.   Decorative walls or retaining walls with fencing may be attached
to the pillar. The average height of a decorative wall must not exceed one-half
the height of the attached pillar. The combined height of a retaining wall with
fence material may not exceed 75% of the height of the attached pillar, and
under no circumstances may the height of the retaining wall itself exceed 30%
of the pillar height. The combined length(s) or extension(s) of decorative or
retaining wall(s) can be no longer than 20% of the lot width at the street.
(Amended Ord. 4582, passed 5/2/05, effective 6/2/05).
         7.   Lighting fixtures may be a part of entrance pillars but shall be
subject to the same height limitations. No lighting fixture may project more
than two (2) feet from the pillar to which it is attached. This provision is
intended to permit low level lighting to identify an entrance and shall not
cause glare nor illuminate any portion of the public way.
         8.   That the structure for which approval is sought is
architecturally compatible with principal structures on the subject zoning lot.
         9.   Security gates may be affixed to approved entrance pillars
provided: 1) the zoning lot on which the proposed gates are to be located is a
minimum of 2 acres; 2) the driveway on which a gate is to be located serves no
more than one single family residence and is at least 150 feet wide; 3) the
gates do not intrude upon the City right-of-way when opened; 4) the gates do
not exceed the height of the pillars to which they are attached; 5) the gates
are at least sixty (60) percent open and constructed of ornamental wrought iron
or of steel or aluminum which is formed and colored in such a style as to be
substantially similar to wrought iron; and 6) the City has means of opening the
gate for public safety response or other City related services.
 
   901.10 Restaurants
       A.   Applicability
         Community Business Zoning District.
      B.   Regulations
Restaurants which meet the following standards (in addition to requirements of
health, fire and other applicable codes):
         1.   All such restaurants must furnish seating space at tables or
booths, together with chairs or benches, so as to make available at least twice
as much lineal seating space at such tables and booths as may exist at any
counter or bar, or so as to provide at least twice as much square footage area
of the tops of such tables and booths as may exist at any counter or bar,
whichever is greater.
         2.   They must meet and comply with, as minimum standards, all
regulations and requirements imposed by Chapter
747  of the Business Regulations Code of this City upon drive-in restaurants,
excepting those in Section
747.08  concerning hours of operation, in Section
 747.10 concerning a wall or fence, and in Section
 747.11  concerning driveway location.
         3.   When the parcel or lot occupied by such a business establishment
abuts residential property to the rear or side, the building must be
constructed in such a manner that the exterior surfaces are compatible with one
another.
         4.   Any rear entrance for customers must be secondary, with an
entrance from the street to be the primary customer entrance.
         5.   Restaurants must have and provide a completely enclosed and a
completely drainable area in which refuse containers must be stored. Such
refuse enclosures must be fire resistant and shall be maintained in such a
manner as to control to the greatest extent reasonably possible the various
problems normally associated with business establishments serving food for
consumption on the premises. The refuse storage area must be maintained in a
clean and sanitary condition.
         6.   Each such restaurant must include and provide a fully equipped
kitchen capable of being utilized for the preparation of complete meals. The
kitchen equipment must include an approved commercial dishwasher, a commercial
stove with an oven and ventilation system, a three- compartment stainless steel
utility sink, a hand washing sink, a refrigerator, a cooler and/or freezer
system comparable in size and capacity to the other equipment in the kitchen
and any other equipment necessary or normally used for the preparation and
serving of Complete meals. Complete plans, showing food service operation
layout, equipment and equipment location must be submitted to the City Health
Department for approval from the period of construction to opening.
         7.   Each such restaurant must provide an exhaust fan system, directed
away from existing residential buildings and from normal pedestrian walkways,
of sufficient capacity for the size of the business establishment, as is deemed
necessary in the reasonable discretion of the City Health Department. The
exhaust system shall include within it a filtering system of a size, type and
efficiency as may be necessary to prevent the discharge of odors upon adjacent
residential property or sidewalks and other customary pedestrian walkways, and
to direct fumes and smoke away from such areas.
         8.   No such restaurant shall be permitted to have live entertainment,
film, video or any other means of projecting pictures for the entertainment of
customers.
         9.   Except for carryout orders to be taken to another location, all
food and drink dispensed on the premises must be consumed within an enclosed
portion of the restaurant.
   901.11 Accessory food stores, snack bars and physical health facilities.
      A.   Applicability
         R7 General Residence District.
      B.   Regulations
Accessory food store, snack bar and personal services facilities and health
facilities such as a gymnasium, massage and other "spa" related facilities may
be established in multiple family residential building which maintain a minimum
of twenty four (24) dwelling units, provided:
         1.   Commercial facilities are accessible only to the tenants/owner of
the building through the lobby. No entrance directly to the exterior of the
building shall be permitted
         2.   No advertising shall be visible from the exterior of the
building.
         3.   The total amount of retail space available for development must
not exceed 1,000 square feet for each twenty four (24) dwelling units, or
proportion thereof.
   901.12 Delicatessens
      A.   Applicability
         All business zoning districts.
 
      B.   Regulations - CB Community Business District
Delicatessens in the form of establishments that sell cooked or prepared foods
in such a manner that the foods are available (without being enclosed in cans,
jars or other containers as in grocery stores) and are ready for serving and
consumption. No more than sixty five (65) percent of the gross sales revenue in
any month may come from carry-out and delivery business. Further, no more than
twenty five (25) percent of the gross sales revenue in any month may result
from delivery business.
Delicatessens may provide tables and/or seating for consumption of food on the
premises. They are not permitted to offer the full fare menus available in
restaurants and/or coffee shops devoted primarily to in-house dining. Nothing
in this paragraph shall be deemed to preclude a delicatessen from offering
carry-out catering.
Because the stock in trade of delicatessens is to be limited as referred to
above, they shall not be deemed to constitute restaurants or coffee shops.
      C.   Regulations - NB Neighborhood Business District
In addition to the regulations cited under paragraph A, above, delicatessens in
the NB Neighborhood Business District shall also meet the following
requirements:
         1.   The space in which the seating is provided may only occupy an
area of no more than 1,200 square feet.
         2.   Tables and/or seating for consumption of food on the premises
shall be limited to accommodate a maximum of twenty-four persons. The exact
number of tables and/or seating is to be established by the Planning Commission
as part of its responsibility in determining the number of parking spaces to be
required.
         3.   Hours of Operation:
            a.   Notwithstanding any other provision of these ordinances,
delicatessens in the neighborhood business district may serve food on the
premises no longer than between the hours of 7:00 A.M. and 9:00 P.M.
            b.   In addition, because delicatessens are a special use, the
Planning Commission may, in addition to any other stipulations, condition the
approval of any such use on hours of operation that are shorter than between
the hours of 7:00 A.M. and 9:00 P.M.
 
   901.13 Rest Homes (Nursing Homes)
      A.   Applicability
         MU Multi-Use Special Planning District.
      B.   Regulations
         Rest homes must meet the following standards:
         1.   The project must provide at least one separate room for every two
residents (i.e., a double room) and not less than one hundred (100) square feet
of double room or single room space for each resident. Each such room must have
a private bath, a sink and a refrigerator. The floor of each room must be
covered with carpeting.
         2.   Each resident room shall be wired for personal telephone
services.
         3.   It must have a separate television viewing room on each floor, of
reasonable size and with seating capacity for at least fifteen (15) percent of
the residents who reside on that floor.
         4.   It must have an on-site kitchen sufficient to provide, and which
does provide, all meals served on the premises. Three meals shall be available
each day.
         5.   It must have laundry facilities available for use by residents
for their personal items. Bedding and bathroom linens shall be provided to
residents, together with a service to launder those linens.
         6.   It shall have an on-premise beauty shop and barbershop, which may
be combined into one operation and one location.
         7.   At least forty (40) percent of the total floor area of the home
must be common space available for use by residents.
         8.   A minimum area of one (1) acre is to be provided for each such
rest home. This is subject to an administrative Variance of up to ten (10)
percent as part of the application, provided the petitioner meets the Variance
standards described in Section
1006  of the this Ordinance. There must not be less than six hundred (600)
square feet of land for each resident the facility is licensed by the state to
accommodate.
         9.   The exterior area must be well landscaped with attractive trees,
bushes, walks, grass and flowers so as to compare favorably with the better
landscaped homes within the City. A detailed landscaping plan must be submitted
by the applicant and approved by the City as part of the planned development
special use approval which is necessary for any use within multi-use special
planning districts. The landscaping plan must include screening which will
protect the surrounding residential neighborhood.
          10.   To the extent reasonably possible, the exterior appearance
shall be that of a large home and must not create the appearance of a hospital
or other institutional facility.
         11.   Regularly and reasonably scheduled (and unscheduled) private
transportation must be provided to shopping areas, banks and other facilities
in Oakwood and nearby areas for residents' needs and interests.
         12.   Maid and/or janitorial service must be provided to clean all
private rooms as well as common areas.
         13.   Daily supervised social and/or recreational and/or educational
programs must be provided which occupy at least four hours each day. The
application for planned development special use approval must describe the
training and experience of the persons who will provide or guide such programs,
and that training and experience must be satisfactory to the City of Oakwood.
         14.   Careful and regular health monitoring must be provided on-site
by one or more registered nurses and/or physicians. This must include
monitoring and/or administration of medication. On-site staff must be available
to administer medication twenty-four (24) hours each day.
         15.   A full-time, on-site staff must be provided in the form of the
following separate individuals: an administrator, one or more registered
nurses, and one or more resident counselors. These persons, or additional
members of staff, shall perform the duties of an activities director and must
provide supervision of building and grounds maintenance, of all the services
provided, and of food preparation.
         16.   No trash dumpsters may be used, but instead all trash must be
placed in residential type waste cans no larger than those permitted for
single- family residential dwellings in the City. Refuse areas must be
screened.
         17.   The exterior and interior of all buildings, as well as the
ground on which any buildings are situated, must be maintained in a first-
class, better than average, manner in comparison to the general levels of
maintenance found throughout the City of Oakwood.
         18.   Limited off-street parking shall be provided so as to have such
number of paved off-street parking spaces as may be deemed appropriate for the
area by the City of Oakwood, but the number of such spaces shall not be more
than one-third of the total number of residents the facility is licensed by the
state to accommodate. The size and operation of the rest home must be such that
this number of off-street parking spaces is sufficient to accommodate all
employees, volunteers and visitors except on holidays and except on special
event occasions. The number of such special event occasions in any calendar
year must be kept small enough that any resulting on-street parking will not
have a substantially adverse impact upon enjoyment or use of nearby property
for residential purposes.
          19.   The furniture, wall coverings, window treatments, carpet,
accessories and any other aspects of interior decorating must be such that the
interior appearance and ambiance is warm, friendly, and much more similar to a
high quality, well furnished and decorated private home than to a commercial
establishment or an institution.
   901.14 Dwelling Units above first floor
      A.   Applicability
         All business zoning districts.
      B.   Regulations
         1.   Such dwelling units must be located above the first floor of the
structure in which they are housed although they may each have a separate
entrance upon the ground floor level.
         2.   The applicant shall submit supporting documentation, and the
Planning Commission shall find, that the parking spaces proposed for
utilization by the combination of uses are sufficient as per provisions for
shared parking facilities (Section 1101.2, A, 6)
   901.15 Buffer Yards to Protect Wooded Parks
      A.   Applicability
         All residential zoning districts.
      B.   Regulations
There shall be a buffer yard of not less than twenty (20) feet nor more than
fifty (50) feet on that portion of any lot abutting or across the street from a
'"wooded park" (designated as such on the list of parks maintained by the City
Manager under Section
 935.02  of the municipal code). The depth of the buffer yard shall be
established by the City Manager with that decision to be based on the standard
or test of what depth is necessary or appropriate to protect the integrity of
the wooded park from the effects of a change in topography, and/or in the
density and maturity of trees, abutting or across the street from that wooded
park. This distance is to be measured from any such contiguous park or, if the
park is across the street, from the dividing line between the yard and the
street right-of-way
Within every buffer yard, no accessory structure or use, driveway or any other
form of obstruction other than trees and vegetation may be placed, the existing
topography may not be changed, and no living, non-diseased tree may be cut down
or damaged, except as follows:
         (1)   By a driveway, provided that the applicant establish by a
preponderance of the evidence that the only reasonable driveway access to the
property would be through the buffer zone and that the proposed location of a
driveway within the buffer yard is such that it minimizes impacts to
topographical conditions
          (2)   For underground utility lines, subject to the condition that
the area where trees have been removed is to be subject to an immediate tree-
replanting requirement, with the size, species and location of replacement
trees to be as reasonably determined by a city horticulturist. Any utility
easement granted after the effective date of this portion of the codified
ordinances shall be deemed subject to this requirement, whether or not
expressed by in the utility easement.
         (3)   By a buffer yard Variance authorized under Section
1006 .
   901.16 Home Occupations
      A.   Applicability
         All residential zoning districts.
      B.   Regulations
         1.   In connection with the home occupation, no sign, display or
merchandise or other material or thing may be used that will indicate from the
exterior that the dwelling is being utilized in whole or in part for any
purpose other than that of a residential dwelling; no commodity may be sold
upon the premises; no person may be employed other than a member of the
immediate family residing on the premises; and no mechanical or electrical
equipment (except common office machines such as computers facsimile machines,
etc.) may be used except of a type that is similar in size, capacity, style and
character to that which is normally and customarily used for purely domestic or
household purposes.
         2.   No home occupation shall occupy more than twenty five (25)
percent of the floor area nor more than four hundred (400) square feet of gross
floor area, whichever is less. No accessory building shall be used for such
home occupation. To the extent they fail to meet the performance standards
included in this section, the business of a barber, a rest home, child care
center or cosmetologist must not be permitted as a home occupation.
         3.   No more than five (5) persons shall visit any property upon any
given day in connection with such home occupation between the hours of 9:00
A.M. until 8:00 P.M. In no event, may any home occupation cause or result in
persons arriving at or entering the premises before 9:00 A.M. or after 8:00
P.M.
         4.   The Building Commissioner may authorize the use of residences for
home occupation purposes which meet the requirements of subparagraphs A through
C below, but which do not meet the requirements of subparagraph D in the
discretion of the Planning Commission and to the extent such home occupations
meet the standards for all special uses set forth in Section 1004.6 and do not
cause or result in the arrival or entrance on the premises of:
             a.   More than three persons per hour (averaged over any six (6)
hours between 9:00 A.M. and 8:00 P.M.) other than persons residing upon the
premises.
            b.   More than eighteen (18) persons per day, other than those
residing upon the premises.
            c.   More than six (6) persons during any portion or any two (2)
hour continuous period, other than those residing upon the premises.
            d.   Any persons who wait or congregate outside the residential
building for a time longer than is reasonably necessary to enter or leave that
building (other than persons residing upon the premises).
            e.   No home occupation may cause noise, vibrations or odors to
extend from the residential dwelling beyond the borders of the zoning lot, or,
in a multi-family structure, beyond the dwelling unit.
   901.17 Transitional Use Provisions - Uses authorized by prior ordinance
      A.   Applicability
   Specific parcels approved for use under prior ordinance in the R6 Zoning
District.
      B.   Regulations
As of July 9, 1990 two office uses had been approved as transitional uses in
this R-6 zoning district, one at the southwest corner of Peach Orchard Road and
Far Hills Avenue and the other at the southeast corner of Peach Orchard Avenue
and Far Hills Avenue. Each such previously approved building may be allowed to
continue as a transitional use upon these lots which meets all requirements of
the R-6 District, except:
         1.   Any interior side yard abutting a residential lot line shall not
be less than fifteen (15) feet; and
         2.   No interior side yard, nor a rear yard, adjoining business zoned
property. (Ordinance #4484, effective 4/19/01).
   901.18 Standards for more than one Private Garage
      A.   Applicability
         When required as a special use in any residential zoning district.
      B.   Regulations
         1.   These regulations apply to private garages, as defined in this
ordinance.
         2.   Driveway access to the private garage shall be combined with
attached or detached garage to minimize curb cuts.
         3.   Driveways for the private garage, when extending behind the front
building line, must meet the side yard requirements of the zoning district.
         4.   Private garages shall meet the minimum side yard requirements of
the district.
         5.   The Planning Commission may approve limitations on the overall
size of the structure to ensure compatibility in scale and materials with
immediately surrounding land-uses, and the neighborhood in general.
(Ordinance #4512, effective 8/15/02).
 
   901.19 Coffee Shops and Delicatessens Selling Beer and Wine
      A.   Applicability
         CB Community Business District
      B.   Regulations
Coffee shops and delicatessens selling beer and wine must meet the following
standards:
         1.   There shall be no more than eighteen (18) counter or bar seats.
         2.   Operating hours shall not extend beyond 12:00 a.m., and the use
of any outdoor seating shall conclude by no later than 10:00 p.m.
         3.   No more than seventy percent (70%) of gross revenue in any month
may come from alcohol sales.
         4.   There shall be no alcohol sales for off-premise consumption, nor
any other carryout of alcohol.
         5.   Live entertainment, in the form of a band or musical group with
more than two (2) members, is restricted to not more than four (4) times per
month, and must occur if at all in the interior of the building.
         6.   There shall be no display of beer or wine advertising signs,
plaques, banners, and the like, on any exterior surface of the building or
otherwise visible from outside the building.
         7.   No illuminated advertising signage of any kind shall be visible
from outside the building.
(Ordinance #4737, passed 9/19/11; Ordinance #4751, passed 2/6/12).
   901.20 Temporary Outdoor Restroom Facilities
      A.   Applicability
         All zoning districts
      B.   Regulations
         1.   Temporary Outdoor Restroom Facilities may only be permitted for
installation in connection with ongoing, permitted construction occurring on
the same zoning lot. They may not be installed more than three (3) business
days prior to the commencement of such construction, and they must be removed
no more than three (3) business days after the completion of such construction.
Not more than one (1) Temporary Outdoor Restroom Facilities unit may be
permitted at any given time on any zoning lot used for residential purposes
other than Multi-Family uses having more than four (4) dwelling units. This
section shall not apply to any Temporary Outdoor Restroom Facilities placed at
a public athletic facility operated by a governmental entity, or to any
Temporary Outdoor Restroom Facilities that may be approved as part of any
Special Use, Planned Development, or Temporary Use permit.
         2.   While installed, any Temporary Outdoor Restroom Facilities must
be regularly serviced and maintained so as to ensure that they do not create a
nuisance or otherwise threaten or injure the public health, safety, and/or
general welfare. During that time, the Building Commissioner may request, and a
permittee shall furnish upon such request, satisfactory maintenance records
demonstrating compliance with this provision.
         3.   Temporary Outdoor Restroom Facilities must be removed and
discontinued during any period of construction inactivity lasting more than
seven (7) consecutive days. The Building Commissioner may waive this provision
if, in the Building Commissioner's discretion, the Facilities are located and/
or appropriately screened in a manner that ensures they are not visible from
any public right-of-way or do not otherwise threaten or injure the public
health, safety, and/or general welfare. Any waiver shall be ineffective unless
made expressly in writing to the permittee; no waiver may be implied under this
section.
         4.   The Building Commissioner may waive the provisions of Section
402.2, allowing placement in a yard that is otherwise not permitted, if, in the
Building Commissioner's discretion, the Facilities are located and/or
appropriately screened in a manner that ensures they are not visible from any
public right-of-way or do not otherwise threaten or injure the public health,
safety, and/or general welfare. Any waiver shall be ineffective unless made
expressly in writing to the permittee; no waiver may be implied under this
section.
         5.   Failure to abide by the provisions of this Section  901.20  will
constitute immediate grounds for denial and/or revocation of the permit for
such Temporary Outdoor Restroom Facilities, and may be used as a basis to deny
future Temporary Outdoor Restroom Facilities permits in connection with the
same construction project. In addition, any such violation shall constitute a
public nuisance and threat to the public health, safety, and/or general
welfare, and the City Attorney may pursue any lawful remedy, under the Zoning
Ordinance or otherwise, to abate the nuisance.
         6.   As part of the Major Site Development Review process, the
Planning Commission shall have the authority to approve reasonable deviations
from the requirements of this Section  901.20 , provided that such deviations
shall protect the public health, safety and/or welfare and shall be limited in
duration to the time reasonably necessary for the development project at issue.
(Ordinance #5007, passed 8/5/2024).
 
TITLE 10. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Sec. 1000 Purpose
The purpose of this Title is to set forth the administrative procedures, rules
and requirements deemed necessary to administer the provisions of this
Ordinance. The Title has been divided into three parts: A - Creation and
Authority; B - General Administrative Procedures and Enforcement; and C -
Performance Review Procedures.
PART A - Creation and Authority
This Part establishes the administrative bodies and officials responsible for
the administration and enforcement of this Ordinance.
Sec. 1001 Planning Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals Established
   1001.1 Planning Commission Established
      A.   The Planning Commission is established in Section
7.01  of the City Charter. Such Commission shall continue to consist of five
members, four of whom shall be citizens who hold no other incompatible public
office or employment, selected by Council one each year for overlapping terms
of four (4) years, and one of whom must be a member of Council, designated
annually by Council. The concurring vote of three members shall be necessary
for decisions of the Planning Commission.
      B.   If conflicts of interest, recusals, or absences make it impossible
to obtain three votes on a particular issue, temporary replacement members
shall serve in such numbers as is equal to the number of permanent members
disqualified by the conflicts of interest or otherwise unable to vote. The
following persons shall serve as such temporary replacement members, as needed,
in the order listed:
         1.   The acting chair of the Board of Zoning Appeals;
         2.   The acting vice-chair of the Board of Zoning Appeals;
         3.   Of the acting members of the Board of Zoning Appeals who are
neither its chair nor its vice-chair, the member who has held the longest term
of service on the Board of Zoning Appeals; and
         4.   Of the acting members of the Board of Zoning Appeals who are
neither its chair nor its vice-chair, the member who has held the second-
longest term of service on the Board of Zoning Appeals.
Such a temporary replacement member must serve for the limited period of time
necessary to consider and vote upon the issue involved. After that vote, the
terms of those temporary members shall be deemed to expire, and the permanent
members previously serving shall be deemed to resume for the remainder of their
previous term.
(Ord. 4708, passed 11/1/10, effective 12/1/10).
   1001.2 Planning Commission Meetings and Rules
      A.   All meetings of the Planning Commission shall be held at the call of
the Chairman and at such times as the Commission may determine. The Commission
must follow the rules and procedures, not in conflict with this Ordinance, as
established in Chapter
111  of the Administrative Code of this City, and must keep minutes of its
proceeding. These minutes shall include all decisions of the commission. The
chairman or acting chairman may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses.
      B.   Certain portions of any meeting may be public hearings, while the
remainder of the meeting need not involve a hearing and may be conducted under
the aforesaid rules. After a public hearing, the commission may deliberate and
decide in any meeting under those rules.
   1001.3 Board of Zoning Appeals Established
      A.   A Board of Zoning Appeals (sometimes referred to as the BZA) as
established in Section
7.02 of the City Charter. The members of such board shall be appointed and
serve in the manner prescribed in the applicable sections of the City Charter,
and as set forth hereinafter.
      B.   Such board shall continue to consist of five members who must be
citizens holding no other City office or employment. Members shall be appointed
by Council, one each year for overlapping terms of five (5) years each.
      C.   If conflicts of interest, recusals, or absences make it impossible
to obtain three votes on a particular issue, temporary replacement members
shall serve in such numbers as is equal to the number of permanent members
disqualified by the conflicts of interest or otherwise unable to vote. The
following persons shall serve as such temporary replacement members, as needed,
in the order listed:
         1.   The acting chair of the Planning Commission;
         2.   The acting vice-chair of the Planning Commission;
         3.   Of the acting members of the Planning Commission who are neither
its chair nor its vice-chair, the member who has held the longest term of
service on the Planning Commission; and
         4.   Of the acting members of the Planning Commission who are neither
its chair nor its vice-chair, the member who has held the second-longest term
of service on the Planning Commission.
Such a temporary replacement member shall serve for the limited period of time
necessary to consider and vote upon the issue involved. After that vote, the
terms of those temporary members shall be deemed to expire, and the permanent
members previously serving shall be deemed to resume for the remainder of their
previous term.
(Ord. 4708, passed 11/1/10, effective 12/1/10).
   1001.4 Board of Zoning Appeals Meetings and Rules
      A.   All meetings of the BZA shall be held at the call of the chairman,
and at such times as the board may determine. Any affected person may appear
and testify at a hearing either in person or by duly authorized agent or
attorney. The chairman, or in his absence the acting chairman, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. The board must keep minutes of
its proceedings.
      B.   A copy of every decision of the board shall be included as part of
its minutes, and shall be a public record. The board must follow the rules and
procedures, not in conflict with this Ordinance, as established in Chapter
111  of the Administrative Code of this City, and must select or appoint such
officers as it deems necessary. Certain portions of any meeting may constitute
public hearings on Variances or on Appeals, while the remainder of the meeting
need not involve a hearing and may be conducted in accordance with the
aforesaid rules. Public hearings are for the purpose of receiving evidence from
applicants and/or the public; and after a hearing the BZA may deliberate and
decide in any meeting under those rules.
      C.   All final decisions and findings of the BZA on Appeals or upon
application for a Variance (after a hearing) shall in all instances be final
administrative decisions, and shall be subject to judicial review as by law may
be provided.
Sec. 1002 Authority -- Administrative Bodies and Officers
The administrative bodies and officials of the City of Oakwood with vested
authority to administer this Ordinance include: 1) the City Council; 2) the
Planning Commission; 3) the Board of Zoning Appeals; 4) the Building
Commissioner; 5) the City Engineer; and 6) the City Attorney.
The duties and responsibilities of each of the bodies and officers in the
administration of this Ordinance are set forth below.
   1002.1 City Council
The City Council of the City of Oakwood shall have the following duties and
responsibilities:
 
      A.   To approve or disapprove an application for amendments to the text
or map of this Ordinance.
      B.   To decide, on Appeal from the Planning Commission, Special Use
Permit petitions. To also decide, upon recommendation from the Planning
Commission, Planned Development - Special Use Permits
      C.   To decide, on appeal from the Planning Commission, Major Site
Development Plan petitions.
      E.   To initiate applications for Text or Map Amendments to this
Ordinance.
      F.   To direct the Planning Commission, Board of Zoning Appeals, Building
Commissioner, City Engineer or City Attorney to conduct such studies, research,
or other actions as appropriate in the review, and administration of this
Ordinance.
   1002.2 Planning Commission
The Planning Commission shall have the following duties and responsibilities:
      A.   To initiate, hear and make recommendations to the City Council on
applications for amendments to the text or map of this Ordinance.
      B.   To hear and pass upon applications for Special Use Permits,
excluding Planned Developments. The Planning Commission shall make
recommendations to City Council on Planned Developments - Special Use Permits.
      C.   To hear and pass upon applications for Variances in situations which
the applicant requires approval from the Planning Commission for another aspect
of the same use/development for which approval is being sought. Further, to
provide recommendations on variation applications submitted in association with
amendments.
      D.   To review and approve, deny, or approve with conditions, Major Site
Development Plans.
      E.   To regularly review and recommend as appropriate, amendments to this
Ordinance.
      F.   To undertake studies or inquiries as directed by the City Council.
   1002.3 Board of Zoning Appeals
      The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the following duties and
responsibilities:
      A.   To hear and decide Appeals from any order, requirements, decision or
determination made by the Building Commissioner.
      B.   To approve or deny Conditional Use Permits directed to it by the
Building Commissioner.
      C.   To hear and pass upon applications for Variances in the manner
prescribed by this Ordinance, subject to the superior authority of the Planning
Commission to hear and pass upon applications for Variances in those situations
in which an action also requires approval of the Planning Commission.
      D.   To hear and decide all other matters referred to it or upon which it
is required to pass under this Ordinance.
 
   1002.4 City Building Commissioner
The City Manager shall serve as Commissioner. However, the City Manager has the
authority to delegate this responsibility as Building Commissioner to others,
as appropriate. The Building Commissioner shall be responsible for the
enforcement of this Ordinance. . The Building Commissioner shall have the
following duties and responsibilities:
      1.   Receive applications as required and determine whether they are
complete for processing under this Ordinance.
      2.   Examine premises for which permit applications are pending or have
been approved, and make necessary inspections to determine compliance with this
Ordinance.
      3.   Make investigations and render written reports when requested by the
Mayor or City Council, or as the interest of the community requires.
      4.   Issue notices or orders as may be necessary.
      5.   Make available to the public, written rules and procedures
consistent with this Ordinance.
      6.   Issue Zoning Certificates, and make and maintain records thereof.
      7.   Issue Certificates of Occupancy, and make and maintain records
thereof.
      8.   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures and use of land to
determine compliance with the terms of this Ordinance.
      9.   Maintain permanent and current records of this Ordinance, including,
but not limited to, all maps, amendments and special uses, conditional uses,
Variances, Appeals, site plans and applications thereof.
      10.   Receive, file, and approve or deny Conditional Use Permit requests.
      11.   Receive, file and forward to the City Planning Commission or Board
of Zoning Appeals all applications for Major or Minor Site Development Plan
approval.
      12.   Receive, file and forward to the City Planning Commission all
applications for special uses and map and Text Amendments to this Ordinance.
      13.   Receive, file and forward to the Board of Zoning Appeals all
applications for Appeals, Variances or other matters on which the Appeals Board
is required to pass under this Ordinance.
      14.   Initiate, direct and review, from time to time, a study of the
provisions of this Ordinance, and to make reports of his recommendations to the
City Planning Commission not less frequently than once a year.
      15.   Interpret the provisions of this Ordinance.
 
   1002.5 City Engineer
      The City Engineer shall have the following duties and responsibilities:
      A.   To review for compliance with civil engineering aspects of all
development plans and proposals within the City under this Ordinance and other
applicable Ordinances of the City of Oakwood.
      B.   To determine as may be required, in collaboration with the Building
Commissioner, whether development proposals must be accompanied by a traffic
impact analysis.
      C.   To advise and recommend to the Planning Commission, Board of Zoning
Appeals, and City Council on civil engineering matters under this Ordinance, as
required.
      D.   To undertake special studies or investigations as may be recommended
by the Planning Commission to the City Council, and/or as directed by the City
Council.
      E.   To enforce the provisions of this Ordinance as appropriate.
   1002.6 City Attorney
      The City Attorney shall have the following duties and responsibilities:
      A.   To advise the City Council, Planning Commission, Board of Zoning
Appeals, or administrative staff as requested on any matters of law in the
application or enforcement of this Ordinance.
      B.   To review for compliance under this Ordinance, actions to be taken
by the City Council, as appropriate.
      C.   To diligently pursue prosecution of violators and violations brought
under this Ordinance.
PART B - General Administrative Procedures and Enforcement
The Zoning Ordinance can be amended or changed. This Part authorizes several
different ways in which the basic regulations may be modified or approvals for
certain types of land-uses may be granted. It recognizes that the regulations,
upon their adoption, could not conceivably comprehend every situation under
which the regulations would apply. Therefore, procedures have been included to
provide the opportunity to change the ordinance, subject to certain standards.
Amendments authorize requests to change both the text of the ordinance, as well
as the zoning map. The City's procedures for considering special and
conditional uses authorized in the zoning districts are included, as well as
procedures permitting a challenge (or an Appeal) to administrative decisions
made by City officials in applying the rules of the Ordinance. Finally, Part B
also includes procedures the City may use to enforce the requirements of this
Ordinance.
Sec. 1003   Amendments
   1003.1 Authority
The City Council has the authority to enact amendments to the text or map of
the Zoning Ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this Section.
 
   1003.2 Type and Purpose
The purpose of an amendment is to reclassify land or to change the text of this
Ordinance.
   1003.3 Initiation
      A.   Text Amendments
Text amendments may be initiated by any resident, tenant, or business owner in
the City, the City Council, Planning Commission, or any person owning property
in the City, or the owners agent.
      B.   Map Amendments
A Map Amendment may be initiated by the City Council, Planning Commission or
the owner, or the owner's agent, of the property for which an amendment is
sought.
   1003.4   Procedure for Initiation - Application and Notice - See Section
1008 1003.5 Procedure for Decision - Planning Commission and City Council
Action.
      A.   Public Hearing
The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on a proposed amendment. At
the hearing, all interested parties shall have an opportunity to be heard.
      B.   Planning Commission Recommendation
Any time after the close of the public hearing, the Planning Commission may
vote to recommend approval or denial. If the Planning Commission fails to
attain the required minimum of three votes to decide the matter within forty
five (45) days after the close of the public hearing, unless the time is
mutually extended by the applicant and Planning Commission, the Planning
Commission shall be deemed to have recommended denial.
      C.   City Council Action
The City Council shall hold a public hearing on a proposed amendment. At the
hearing, all interested parties shall have an opportunity to be heard. (Ord.
4517, effective 10/16/02).
By simple majority, the City Council shall approve, disapprove or approve with
modifications any requested Text Amendment. By simple majority, the City
Council shall approve or deny any proposed Map Amendment.
   1003.6 Written Findings of Fact
The Planning Commission shall submit findings of fact to the City Council along
with its recommendation.
      A.   Map Amendments
Where the purpose and effect of the proposed amendment is to change the zoning
classification of particular property, the Commission shall make findings based
upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case with respect to, but
not limited to, the following matters:
         1.   Existing uses of property within the general area of the property
in question;
          2.   The zoning classification of property within the general area of
the property in question;
         3.   The suitability of the property in question to the uses permitted
under the existing zoning classification, as well as, the proposed zoning
classification; and
         4.   The current Comprehensive Plan for the City of Oakwood.
         5.   A lot, or zoning lot less than 25,000 square feet in area shall
not qualify for a Map Amendment, unless it adjoins a lot or parcel of land
zoned the same classification as the one proposed class.
         6.   The Planning Commission shall not recommend the adoption of a
proposed amendment unless it finds that the amendment is in the public
interest, and not solely for the interest of the applicant.
      B.   Text Amendments
Text amendments shall be reviewed for consistency with the purposes of this
Ordinance, the Comprehensive Plan, and the interests of the City of Oakwood as
a whole.
Sec. 1004   Special Use Permits
   1004.1 Authority
The City Council has the authority to grant Special Use Permits for Planned
Developments and on Appeals from the Planning Commission in accordance with the
provisions of this Ordinance.
   1004.2 Purpose
The purpose for Special Use Permits is to require the special uses specified in
this Ordinance to satisfy specified standards set forth in this Ordinance to
minimize or eliminate the potentially harmful characteristics or off-site
impacts of such uses on uses that are permitted in the zoning district.
   1004.3 Initiation
The owner of the property, lessee, or contract purchaser for which a Special
Use Permit is sought may initiate a request for a Special Use Permit.
   1004.4 Procedure for Initiation - Application and Notice - See Section
1008  
1004.5  Procedure for Decision - Planning Commission and City Council Action
      A.   Public Hearing
The Planning Commission must hold a public hearing on an application for a
Special Use Permit. At the hearing, all interested parties shall have an
opportunity to be heard.
 
      B.   Planning Commission Action
Within ninety (90) days after the close of the public hearing, the Planning
Commission shall vote to approve or deny, or approve with conditions the
special use. In the case of Planned Developments, however, the Planning
Commission shall provide a recommendation to City Council, and City Council
shall have final authority to approve or deny the Planned Development. If the
Planning Commission fails to attain the required minimum of three votes to
decide the matter within ninety (90) days after the close of the public
hearing, the Planning Commission shall be deemed to deny the application for
approval or to have recommended denial, as appropriate, unless such date is
extended as mutually agreed upon by the applicant and the Planning Commission.
      C.   City Council Action on Appeal
Within fifteen (15) days following the date of final action by the Planning
Commission, the petitioner may Appeal the Planning Commission's action to the
City Council by filing with the Clerk of Council a written Notice of Intent to
Appeal. A complete written appeal setting forth the facts, issues and arguments
shall be filed with the Clerk of Council by the petitioner within fifteen (15)
calendar days after filing the Notice of Intent to Appeal, or the Notice of
Intent to Appeal shall lapse and become void.
The City Council shall hold a public hearing and decide such appeal as its
agenda may permit, but not later than sixty (60) days after such written appeal
has been filed with the Clerk of Council. Notice of the public hearing need
only be made by publication in the manner described in Section 1008.3, with the
petitioner to pay the cost of publication. The City Council may reverse or
override any action of the Planning Commission, within the parameters of this
Ordinance, by a majority vote of the City Council. Lack of action on behalf of
Council resulting in expiration of the sixty (60) day action period shall be
deemed an affirmation of the Planning Commission's action.
   (Ordinance No. 4709, passed 11/1/10, effective 12/1/10.)
   1004.6 Standards for Special Uses
Each application for a Special Use Permit will be considered on its own facts.
The applicant must present evidence at the public hearing on the application
for a Special Use Permit which demonstrates compliance with each of the
following standards, as applicable:
      A.   The proposed use at the specified location is consistent with the
Comprehensive Plan.
      B.   The proposed building or use will not adversely affect or change the
character of the area in which it is located.
      C.   That the establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use
will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals,
comfort, convenience or general welfare.
      D.   That the proposed use will not be injurious to the reasonable use
and enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes
already permitted, or substantially diminish and impair property values within
the neighborhood.
      E.   The proposed use at the specified location will not significantly
adversely affect the use and development of adjacent and nearby properties in
accordance with the regulations of the district in which they are located. The
location, size and height of proposed buildings and other structures, and the
operation of the use will not significantly adversely affect the use and
development or hinder the appropriate development of adjacent and nearby
properties.
      F.   That the exterior architectural Appeal and functional plan of any
proposed structure will not be so at variance with either the exterior
architectural appeal and functional plan of the structures already constructed
or in the course of construction in the immediate neighborhood, or the
character of the applicable district as to cause a substantial depreciation in
the property values within the neighborhood.
      G.   That adequate utilities, access roads, off-street parking and
loading facilities, drainage and/or other necessary facilities, have been or
are being provided at the applicant's cost.
      H.   That adequate measures have been or will be taken at applicant's
cost to provide ingress and egress so designed as to minimize traffic
congestion in the public streets and avoid hazards to pedestrian traffic.
      I.   That the special use shall, in all other respects, conform to the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located, except as such
regulation may, in each instance, be modified by Council pursuant to the
recommendations of the Planning Commission.
   1004.7 Written Findings of Fact
The Planning Commission in its recommendations with regard to an application
for a Special Use Permit must set forth specific written findings of fact on
each standard.
   1004.8 Conditions on Special Uses
Depending on the approving authority, the Planning Commission or City Council
may impose conditions in authorizing a special use to make such special use
more compatible with the use, enjoyment and development of adjacent and nearby
properties, to make the special use more compatible with the character of the
area in which it is located and to eliminate any adverse effect on adjacent and
nearby properties and the neighborhood. Any such conditions must be set forth
as part of the action approving the Special Use Permit.
   1004.9 Written Notice
Following Council action, the Building Commissioner must forward written notice
of either the Planning Commission and/or Council's decision to the petitioner,
as appropriate.
   1004.10 Lapse of Authorization for Special Uses
Unless the Planning Commission or City Council provides otherwise, or unless
the City Council or Planning Commission has extended the term of the Special
Use Permit at the request of the applicant, authorization for a special use
shall automatically lapse if: 1) the special use ceases to operate for a
continuous six (6) month period; or 2) six months (6) months after the date of
approval of the special use unless a building permit has been issued and
construction has commenced.
   1004.11 Effect of Denial of Special Use
No application for a special use which has been denied wholly or in part by
Council shall be resubmitted for a period of one (1) year from the date of such
order of denial, except on the grounds of new evidence or proof of change of
conditions found to be valid by the Planning Commission and Council.
Sec. 1005   Conditional Use Permits
   1005.1 Authority
The City Manager has the authority to grant Conditional Use Permits in
accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
       
   1005.2 Purpose
The purpose of a Conditional Use Permit is to review the design of the proposed
use in relation to its physical surroundings. The nature of a conditional use
presumes the use to generally be compatible, but that certain design conditions
must first be met, or the use evaluated in context of its setting prior to
permit authorization.
   1005.3 Initiation
The owner of the property, owners agent, or contract purchaser for which a
conditional use is sought may initiate a request for a Conditional Use Permit.
   1005.4 Procedure for Initiation
An application for a conditional use must be filed with the Building
Commissioner on a form prescribed by the Commissioner. The application shall be
accompanied by such plans and/or data requested by the Commissioner, by a Minor
Site Development Plan to the extent required by Section
1014 , and must include a statement in writing by the applicant (together with
adequate independent evidence) showing that the proposed conditional use will
conform to the standards applicable to it. The application and all accompanying
evidence shall be forwarded to the City Manager. Any application for a
Conditional Use Permit must be accompanied by a fee as set by the City Manager
under Chapter
153  of the Municipal Codified Ordinance.
   1005.5 Procedure for Decision - City Manager
The City Manager must review the permit application along with the applicable
provisions of this Ordinance, and the purposes defined for a Conditional Use
Permit. The City Manager shall approve, deny, or approve the permit with
conditions, as may be reasonably appropriate in each specific case. The City
Manger must take action on a complete Conditional Use Permit application within
thirty (30) days of the date of filling, unless the time is extended by mutual
agreement. Either prior to or within said thirty (30) day period, the City
Manager may refer the application to the Board of Zoning Appeals for
consideration. Under such situation, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall approve,
deny, or approve with conditions the application within 30 days of the date the
item first appears on the Boards' agenda.
   1005.6 Lapse of Authorization for Conditional Uses
The approval of a Conditional Use Permit shall be valid for six (6) months
during which time the petitioner/property owner shall have secured proper
permits and commenced construction of improvement(s). Failure to secure permits
and commence construction within six (6) months shall render the permit invalid
Sec. 1006   Variances
   1006.1 Authority
The Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA) and the Planning Commission are authorized to
grant or deny requested Variances in accordance with the provisions of this
Ordinance. Any person or entity who or which applies for a Variance or files an
Appeal shall bear the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that
the Variance or Appeal should have been granted, or the decision should have
been reversed or modified.
   1006.2 Purpose
Variances afford a property owner the opportunity for relief from a particular
hardship or practical difficulty that the regulations of this Ordinance impose
upon a particular parcel of land which make compliance with the regulations
generally applicable in a zoning district extraordinarily difficult or
impossible.
   1006.3 Types of Variances Prohibited and Authorized
Use Variances are prohibited. Subject to the applicable provisions of this
Section, Variances from other regulations generally applicable in a zoning
district are as follows:
      A.   To permit any yard or setback less than a setback required by the
applicable regulations.
      B.   To increase by not more than ten (10) percent the maximum gross
floor area of any use so limited by the regulations.
      C.   To reduce the applicable off-street parking or loading facilities
required by not more than twenty-five (25) percent.
      D.   To increase by not more than twenty-five (25) percent the maximum
distance that required parking spaces are permitted to be located from the use
served.
      E.   To permit the use of any lot for a use otherwise prohibited solely
because of the insufficient area or width of the lot or for any other purpose
to vary the area or width requirements.
      F.   To permit a school or the City to erect, along any public
playground, public park or public recreation facility, fences which exceed the
height limitations which would otherwise be applicable, but in no event higher
than fifteen (15) feet.
      G.   To permit a lot of record to abut upon and/or have access to a
private street.
      H.   To permit accessory structures or uses or other forms of obstruction
to be placed in buffer yards required for properties abutting or across the
street from a "wooded park" (requirements of Section  901.15 ), with possible
resulting changes in topography and possible damage to or removal of living,
non- diseased trees.
      I.   To permit an exception to the zoning lot joiner requirements of
Section 1302, B., so as to allow a lot of record in a single family residence
district even if that lot does not conform with zoning requirements and does
not qualify for the majority rule exception of subparagraph (3) of Section
1302.B. No such Variance may be granted unless it meets the following
conditions, and the standards for Variances in Section 1006.7, below.
         1.   Granting the Variance shall not cause any yard on the adjacent
lot (owned or formerly owned by the same owner) nor the area or width of that
adjacent lot to become or to be revealed as nonconforming or to have its
nonconformity increased in any way.
         2.   If a Variance under this paragraph is granted, it must be
contingent upon the lots being re-platted within the next one hundred and
twenty (120) days, unless the boundaries of the resulting zoning lots are
already platted.
         3.   The fact that a vacant, nonconforming lot is allowed as a
building site through such a Variance does not make that lot conforming, but
merely allows the lot to be used for conforming structures which shall in all
other respects meet the requirements of this Ordinance.
         4.   If a Variance is granted under this subsection, any structure
subsequently placed on the lot must have all aspects of its appearance, of its
size, shape and area, of its quality of construction, of its location on the
lot, and of the landscaping and other appearance aspects of the lot so planned
and implemented that the structure and lot will be reasonably compatible with
other residences on approximately the same sized lots in the neighborhood in
which the subject lot is located. Plans for any structure to be placed on a lot
granted such a Variance must be submitted in advance for approval by the BZA,
and no structure may be erected except in accordance with plans approved by the
BZA on the basis of meeting this standard. To make future owners of the lot
aware of this requirement, it must be included in plat restrictions that are a
part of any plat referred to in sub-paragraph B above. If no such plat is
necessary, this requirement shall be set forth in an affidavit of title filed
by the City with the Recorder of Montgomery County as to the lot in question.
Such affidavit shall also contain a signature line to indicate approvals as to
form by the City Attorney.
      J.   To increase by not more than twenty-five (25) percent the maximum
height of an accessory building or structure (except fences and garages) in a
rear yard where it is determined that the lot on which said building or
structure is to be located is not less than 40,000 square feet in area. (Ord.
4530, adopted 3/3/03, effective 4/3/03).
      K.   Any Variance considered by the Board of Zoning Appeals or the
Planning Commission shall consider the minimum Variance necessary to reasonably
permit use due to the regulations in force.
(Amended by Ord. 4488, adopted 7/16/01, effective 8/16/01)
   1006.4 Initiation
The owner of the property, or the owner's agent, for which a Variance is sought
may initiate a request for a Variance.
   1006.5 Procedure for Initiation - Application and Notice - See Section 1008
1006.6 Procedure for Decision
      A.   Hearing
The Board of Zoning Appeals or Planning Commission must hold a public hearing
on the application for a Variance. Petitions for Variances which do not require
any action on behalf of the Planning Commission, shall be submitted for
consideration by Board of Zoning Appeals. Petitions which require a form of
approval from the Planning Commission, shall be heard and approved by the
Planning Commission. At the public hearing, all interested parties shall have
an opportunity to be heard.
      B.   Board of Zoning Appeals or Planning Commission Action
Within ninety (90) days time after the close of the public hearing, the Board
of Zoning Appeals may, by a majority vote, grant the requested Variance by
adopting a resolution providing therefore which must include written findings
of fact showing compliance with each standard for a Variance and which shall
include any conditions on the Variance granted. If an application for a
Variance is not approved by a majority vote of the Board of Zoning Appeals, it
shall be deemed denied.
 
   1006.7 Standards for Variances
      A.   Standard of Review
The Board of Zoning Appeals or Planning Commission, as applicable, shall base
its review of a variance application upon the complete application, upon any
staff report, and upon any relevant and credible public testimony and evidence
presented during the adjudication hearing. If the Board of Zoning Appeals or
Planning Commission, as applicable, finds that the information provided is
insufficient to make a determination, it may suspend its review until
sufficient information has been provided.
      B.   Burden of proof
The applicant shall be required to present by preponderance of reliable,
probative and substantial testimony and evidence supporting the applicant's
request for a variance.
      C.   Decision standards
The Board of Zoning Appeals or Planning Commission, as applicable, will
consider the effect of the request on the public health, safety and welfare.
Variances shall be granted only upon a determination that practical
difficulties exist with respect to the property in question that would render
strict application of the Zoning Ordinance unreasonable. This determination
shall be made without regard to the existence of variances and nonconformities
on other land, sites, or structures not presently under consideration. In
determining whether practical difficulties exist sufficient to warrant a
variance, the Board shall consider and weigh the following factors:
         1.   Whether the property in question will yield reasonable return or
whether there can be any beneficial use of the property without the variance;
         2.   Whether the variance is substantial;
         3.   Whether the essential character of the neighborhood would be
substantially altered or whether adjoining properties would suffer a
substantial detriment as a result of the variance;
         4.   Whether the variance would adversely affect the delivery of
governmental services (i.e. water, sewer, refuse);
         5.   Whether the property owner purchased the property with knowledge
of the zoning restriction;
         6.   Whether the property owners' predicament feasibly can be obviated
through some method other than a variance;
         7.   Whether the spirit and intent behind the zoning requirement would
be observed and substantial justice done by granting the variance; and
         8.   Any other relevant factor. (Ord. 4865, passed 8/6/2018)
   1006.8 Written Findings
The Board of Zoning Appeals or the Planning Commission shall set forth specific
written findings of fact in its reason to approve or deny the Variance.
 
   1006.9 Conditions of Variances
The Board of Zoning Appeals or Planning Commission may impose conditions in
approving a Variance to eliminate any adverse effects on adjacent and nearby
properties or a neighborhood.
   1006.10 Effect of Denial of Variance
Denial of a petition for a Variance shall not be reconsidered for a period of
twelve (12) months unless the petitioner can demonstrate to the hearing body
that the facts and conditions surrounding the request have substantially
changed.
   1006.11 Lapse of Authorization for Variance
The approval of a Variance shall be valid for six (6) months following the date
of the approval. Failure to secure permits and commence construction or
establish an approved use within the six (6) months time frame will render a
Variance or Appeal invalid.
   1006.12 Appeal to Court
A decision by the Board of Zoning Appeals or Planning Commission on a variation
is a final administrative decision subject to further review only in the
courts.
Sec. 1007   Appeals
   1007.1 Authority
The Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA) is authorized to grant or deny a request on
Appeal in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance. Any person or
entity who or which files an Appeal shall bear the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence that an Appeal should be granted.
   1007.2 Purpose
The purpose of an Appeal is to provide any person aggrieved by an
administrative order, requirement, decision, or determination under this
Ordinance to have such matter reviewed by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   1007.3 Scope of Appeals
An Appeal may be taken to the BZA by any person, firm or corporation, or by any
office, department, board or bureau aggrieved by a decision of the Building
Commissioner. Such an Appeal must be taken within fourteen (14) days from the
date of the pertinent ruling by the Building Commissioner by filing with the
Commissioner a notice of Appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The
Commissioner shall thereafter transmit to the board such notice of Appeal and a
copy of all of the plans and papers constituting the record upon which the
action Appealed from was taken.
   1007.4 Stay of Proceedings
An Appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action Appealed from
unless the Building Commissioner certified to the board, after the notice of
the Appeal has been filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in the
certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or
property, in which case the proceedings shall be not stayed except by a
restraining order which may be granted by a court of record on application, on
notice to the Commissioner and on due cause shown.
 
   1007.5 Hearing and Determination
The Board shall select a reasonable time and place for a public hearing of the
Appeal, and must render a written decision on the Appeal within a reasonable
time. Notice of the time and place of the public hearing must be published not
less than ten (10) days nor more than thirty (30) days before the hearing, in a
newspaper of general circulation in the City. The board shall also mail notices
to the appellant and the Commissioner at least five (5) days before the
hearing. Any affected person may be heard at such hearings in person or by
agent or attorney.
Upon the concurring vote of three members, the board may affirm, reverse, or
modify the order, requirement, decision or determination from which the Appeal
was taken. In doing so, the board shall be limited to applying and interpreting
the applicable sections of the codified Ordinances, acting within that language
and the law as it may be determined by the City Attorney.
   1007.6 Written Findings
The Board of Zoning Appeals shall set forth specific written findings of fact
in its reason to approve or deny the Appeal.
   1007.7 Appeal to Court
A decision by the Board of Zoning Appeals on an Appeal is a final
administrative decision, which may be subject to further review only in the
courts.
1008   Procedure for Petition for Any Amendment (map or text), Special Use
Permit, Conditional Use Permit or Variance
   1008.1 Application - Authority to Petition
      A.   The City Council may propose amendments by forwarding its written
proposal, which shall set forth the proposed amendment, to the Building
Commissioner for processing in accordance with the procedure set forth in this
Ordinance.
      B.   The Planning Commission may make written proposals for amendments,
which shall set forth the purpose and reason for such proposed amendment, and
which shall be processed in accordance with the procedure set forth in this
Ordinance.
      C.   The owner, contract purchaser, or others having an economic
interest, for which a Map Amendment, Special Use Permit or Variance is sought
must file an application with the Building Commissioner.
      D.   Any interested citizen or group of citizens may propose an amendment
to the text of this Ordinance. The written proposal shall be filed with the
Building Commissioner for processing in accordance with the procedure set forth
in this Ordinance.
   1008.2 Petition Content
      A.   Each application must include four (4) copies of all full sized
documents and drawings. For all graphic and plan drawings, a scale of not less
than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') shall be used. In no event,
shall individual sheets or drawings exceed thirty (30) inches by forty two (42)
inches. In addition, one set of reduced copies sized at eleven (11) inches by
seventeen (17) inches shall be submitted. All sets of drawings submitted must
be folded. The submission may be composed of one or more sheets and shall
include:
          1.   Name, address and telephone number of the owner. If property
ownership is in trust, the name and address of each person or entity owning an
interest in the property, and the extent of such ownership interest unless any
of such entities is a corporation or a partnership, in which case only those
persons owning an interest in excess of ten (10) percent in such corporation or
partnership need be identified by name, address and extent of interest.
         2.   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant including the
name and address of each person or entity owning an interest in the property
and the extent of such ownership interest unless any of such entities is a
corporation or a partnership, in which case only those persons owning an
interest in excess of ten (10) percent in such corporation or partnership need
be identified by name, address and extent of interest. For purposes of this
section, the term ownership interest shall include any legal or equitable
interest held at the time of the application in the real property which is the
subject of the application. The application must include the signature of the
owner(s).
         3.   A legal description of each parcel of property subject to the
petition. (Not applicable to conditional uses.)
         4.   For Map Amendments, Special and Conditional Uses, and Variances,
a plat, in duplicate, of the piece or parcel of land, lots or blocks, or parts
or portions thereof, drawn to scale in ink or in blueprint showing the actual
dimensions, as certified by a registered surveyor or a registered professional
engineer, registered with the State of Ohio, as a true copy of the piece or
parcel, lots or blocks, or portions thereof, according to the registered or
recorded plat of such land, also by proof that the property has previously been
surveyed and that the corners have been marked in a permanent manner so as to
be located easily. However, the Building Commissioner may waive the certified
plat described herein, if in his opinion such information is unnecessary for
proper review and identification.
         5.   If notice Is to be made by the petitioner, an affidavit in which
the applicant: 1) lists the names and addresses of the record owners of each
parcel of property located within two hundred (200) feet of the subject
property, excluding public streets and rights-of-way; and 2) states under oath
that the list is true and correct to the best of the applicant's knowledge and
belief. (Not applicable to conditional uses or Appeals.) If notice is to be the
responsibility of the City, then the petitioner shall provide the appropriate
fee upon application.
         6.   If notice is to be made by the petitioner, one original of a
notice to be mailed to such property owners, said notice to be in the form set
forth below:
"You are hereby notified that the undersigned has filed a Variance application
with the City of Oakwood. The purpose of the (Variance, Special Use, or Map
Amendment) being sought is (State Nature of Matter). This matter will be heard
by the (Planning Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals) on the second floor of
the City Building at 30 Park Avenue, City of Oakwood, Ohio, on the (Date) day
of (Month), (Year), at (Time) o'clock (A.M. or P.M.). (Signature of Chairman)
As many properly stamped, addressed envelopes as are necessary to provide two
separate such envelopes addressed to each of the property owners on the
aforesaid list, one for notice of the hearing and the other to be used by the
BZA to send notice of the decision. (Not applicable to Conditional Uses or
Appeals)
         7.   Present zoning classification and use of each parcel of property
for which a Map Amendment, Special or Conditional Use Permit or Variance is
requested.
         8.   A nonrefundable fee as set forth in Chapter
153  of the Administrative Code.
         9.   Map Amendments
            a.   The proposed zoning classification requested for each parcel
of property which is the subject of the application and the proposed use of
each and all such parcel(s).
            b.   A statement indicating whether the proposed Map Amendment is
consistent with the Comprehensive Plan and, if not, a statement indicating why
the proposed deviation from the Comprehensive Plan is appropriate.
         10.   Text Amendments
Any Text Amendment shall require an application to be filed with the Building
Commissioner, which application shall be accompanied by the proposed text.
         11.   Special Use Permits
A description of the proposed use and a statement of how the application meets
each of the criteria described in Section 1004.6., Standards for Special Uses
above.
         12.   Variances
A statement with supporting facts of the hardship or practical difficulties
which form the basis for the Variance and which demonstrate compliance with
each of the standards for Variances listed in Section 1006.7, above.
         13.   A major or Minor Site Development Plan depicting proposed
improvements, if required, by Section
1013  of this Ordinance.
         14.   Other information, plans and studies which may be required by
the Building Commissioner which may include, but are not limited to, the
following:
            a.   A traffic study.
            b.   A market analysis of the need and demand for the proposed use
and the impact of the proposed use on the value of adjoining and nearby
properties.
             c.   A fiscal impact analysis.
            d.   Drainage study.
   1008.3 Notice Requirements
      A.   Written Notice
After a completed application has been filed for a map or Text Amendment,
Special Use Permit or Variance and accepted as complete to form and substance,
the Building Commissioner shall schedule a date for a public hearing thereon
before the Planning Commission, in the case of an amendment, or Special Use
Permit, or Variance, or before the Board of Zoning Appeals in the case of a
Variance or Appeal request, and shall cause notice thereof no less than ten
(10) nor more than thirty (30) days prior thereto to be published in a
newspaper of general circulation. The applicant shall pay the cost of
publication. For a Map Amendment, Special Use Permit or Variance application,
the written notices must be mailed by regular mail to the owner and owners of
property located within two hundred (200) feet of the property as listed on the
affidavit filed as a part of the application. If the applicant is the City of
Oakwood, the Building Commissioner shall determine the names and addresses of
the record owners of property within a two hundred (200) foot distance of the
property to be rezoned.
Sec. 1009   Permits, Certificates and Procedures
   1009.1 Zoning Certificates
      A.   Authority
The Building Commissioner is authorized to grant or deny applications for
Zoning Certificates in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
      B.   Purpose
The purpose of a zoning certificate is for the City to certify that the
proposed use and the development of a parcel of property complies with all of
the provisions of this Ordinance and any and all other applicable Ordinances,
approved plans, Special Use Permits and Variations which apply to the use and
development of the property.
      C.   Certificate Required
   A Zoning Certificate is required: 1) along with, or prior to the issuance of
a building permit; or 2) prior to a change in the use of an existing building
or any part thereof to a different use.
      D.   Initiation
The owner of the property, or the owners agent, for which a zoning certificate
is sought may initiate a request for a zoning certificate.
      E.   Procedure for Initiation - Application
Where the requested action(s) require the issuance of a building permit, the
building permit application must substitute for the following application
requirements.
For all other applications, the owner of the property for which a zoning
certificate is sought must file an application with the Building Commissioner,
which application must be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee established in
Chapter
153  of the Administrative Code and which shall contain the following
information:
         1.   Name, address and telephone number of the owner. If property
ownership is in trust, the name and address of each person or entity owning an
interest in the property or owner and the extent of such ownership interest
unless any of such entities is a corporation or a partnership, in which case
only those persons owning an interest in excess of ten (10) percent in such
corporation or partnership need be identified by name, address and extent of
interest.
         2.   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant including the
name and address of each person or entity owning an interest in the property
and the extent of such ownership interest unless any of such entities is a
corporation or a partnership, in which case only those persons owning an
interest in excess of ten (10) percent in such corporation or partnership need
be identified by name, address and extent of interest. For purposes of this
section, the term ownership interest shall include any legal or equitable
interest held at the time of the application in the real property which is the
subject of the application.
         3.   A statement identifying the address of the property which is the
subject of the application.
         4.   A statement setting forth the existing use of the property or
portion thereof for which a zoning certificate is sought.
         5.   A statement setting forth in detail the proposed use of the
property, the projected number of employees, the number of parking spaces
available for the exclusive use of the proposed use and proof of such exclusive
right and the number of parking spaces available for use of the proposed use on
a shared basis and proof thereof.
         6.   An approved site development plan or an application for site
development plan approval, if required.
         7.   A statement setting forth the zoning provisions including special
or Conditional Use Permits, site plans and variations applicable to the
proposed use and property.
         8.   Any other information which may be requested by the Building
Commissioner.
      F.   Notice of Zoning Certificate Approval or Denial
The Building Commissioner shall grant the applicant a zoning certificate if the
proposed use and development complies with the provisions of this Ordinance and
any other applicable Ordinances, plans, Special Use Permits and variations
applicable to the use and property. If the use and property do not so comply,
the Building Commissioner shall deny such application and notify the applicant
in writing by regular mail of such denial setting forth the reasons for such
denial. Alternatively, the approval or denial of a building permit may serve to
determine compliance, provided the permit stipulates the reasons for denial
related to zoning.
      G.   Lapse of Zoning Certificate
Where the Building Commissioner has issued a zoning certificate, such
certificate shall become null and void unless a building permit has been issued
and construction commenced within six (6) months of the date of the issuance of
such certificate by the Building Commissioner, and diligently prosecuted to
completion, unless this time period is extended by City Council.
   1009.2 Certificates of Occupancy
      A.   Certificates of Occupancy
No building, or addition thereto, constructed after the effective date of this
Ordinance, (and no addition to a previously existing building) shall be
occupied, and no land, vacant on the effective date of this Ordinance, shall be
used for any purpose until a Certificate of Occupancy has been issued by the
Building Commissioner. No change in a use other than that of a permitted use to
another similar permitted use shall be made until a Certificate of Occupancy
has been issued by the Commissioner. Every Certificate of Occupancy must state
that the use or occupancy complies with the provisions of this Ordinance.
      B.   Application for Certificate
   Every application for a building permit or zoning certificate shall be
deemed to be an application for a Certificate of Occupancy. Upon written
request from the owner or tenant, the Building Commissioner shall issue a
Certificate of Occupancy for any building or premises existing at the time of
enactment of this Ordinance, certifying, after inspection, the extent and kind
of use made of the building or premises and whether such use conforms to the
provisions of this Ordinance.
      C.   Issuance of Certificate
   No Certificate of Occupancy for a building or portion thereof, constructed
after the effective date of this Ordinance, or for an addition to a previously
existing building shall be issued until construction has been completed and the
premises inspected and certified by the Building Commissioner to be in
conformity with the plans and the issuance of a regular certificate, a
temporary certificate may be issued, to be valid for a period not to exceed six
(6) months from its date, during the completion of any addition or during
partial occupancy of the premises. The Certificate of Occupancy must be issued,
or written notice shall be given to the applicant stating the reasons why a
certificate cannot be issued, not later than fourteen (14) days after the
Commissioner is notified in writing that the building or premises is ready for
occupancy.
      D.   Lapse of Certificate of Occupancy
   A Certificate of Occupancy shall remain in effect as long as the use of such
building or premises is in full conformity with the provisions of this
Ordinance and with any conditions upon which such certificate may have been
issued. Upon serving notice for any violation of such provisions or conditions,
the Certificate of Occupancy shall become null and void and a new Certificate
of Occupancy shall be required for any further use of such building or
premises.
Sec.   1010   Enforcement
   
   1010.1 Authority
In addition to other remedies for violations of Ordinances as may be contained
in the Oakwood Municipal Code, the Building Commissioner is conferred the
responsibility for enforcing this Ordinance.
 
   1010.2 Building Commissioner - Violation Notice Procedures
      A.   Upon the determination that a violation exists, the Building
Commissioner must prepare a notice of violation making specific reference to
the requirements of this Ordinance. The notice must be delivered by certified
mail and request abatement of the violation within a ten (10) day period.
Copies of the notice shall be forwarded to the City Attorney and Chairman of
the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      B.   Following the ten (10) day violation abatement period, and upon re-
inspection of the premise, should the violation not be corrected or abated
within the timeline established above, the Building Commissioner shall notify
the City Attorney of the status of the violation.
For permits or activity involving construction, the Building Commissioner is
authorized to issue a stop work order until the violation is corrected. Fees
and penalties for construction not authorized by a valid building permit shall
be doubled.
In all situations, the Building Commissioner and/or City Attorney may promptly
initiate any other lawful proceedings to secure correction or abatement of the
violation(s), including the initiation of proceedings in a competent court of
law.
   1010.3 Stop Work Orders - Emergency Conditions
The Building Commissioner may issue a stop work order where in his or her
judgment, a potentially dangerous or hazardous condition or situation exists
which may result in injury to life or loss of property.
   1010.4 Commissioner's Right of Entry
In the discharge of his duties, the Building Commissioner or an authorized
representative shall have the authority to enter at any reasonable time, or any
time demanded by circumstances, any building, structure or premises in the
interests of enforcing the provisions of this Ordinance, with permission of the
owner or occupant or through a court order.
   1010.5 Penalties
      A.   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and
shall be fined not more than one hundred fifty (150) dollars per offense. Each
day the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      B.   The City of Oakwood, or the City Manager on behalf of the City of
Oakwood, may in addition to seeking criminal remedies , file suit for
injunction against any violation of this code, or if the violation has caused
damages to the City of Oakwood for a judgment for damages and any person,
property owner or occupant of property who can show that the person, property
owner or occupant of property has suffered harm or whose property has suffered
harm as a result of the violations of this ordinance may file suit for
injunction or damages to the fullest extent provide by the laws of the State of
Ohio.
PART C - Performance Review Procedures
Several administrative procedures involve the review of proposed development or
project improvements plans to ensure conformance with the regulations of this
Ordinance. These include: Planned Developments; Major Site Development Plan
Review; Minor Site Development Plan Review, Landscape Plan Review; and Business
District Design Review Guidelines. Of these procedures, only the Planned
Development regulations are voluntary. The remaining procedures are required
under certain development or improvement situations to ensure conformity to all
requirements of this Ordinance, the Comprehensive Plan, and various sub-area
plans which may exist for portions of the community.
Sec. 1011   Planned Developments
   1011.1 Authority
The City Council is hereby authorized to approve or disapprove Planned
Developments, upon recommendation from the Planning Commission, in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance.
   1011.2 Purpose and Objectives
      A.   Planned Developments are of such substantially different character
from other special uses that specific and additional standards and exceptions
are hereby established to govern the actions of the Planning Commission and
City Council.
         1.   General Purpose: A Planned Development is a privilege to be
earned and not a right which can be claimed simply upon complying with all the
standards established in this Section. The Planning Commission and City Council
may require any reasonable conditions or design considerations which will
promote proper development of benefit to the community. It is not intended that
the Planning Commission nor City Council automatically grant the maximum use
exceptions or density increase in the case of each Planned Development. The
Commission shall recommend and City Council may grant only such increase or
latitude which is consistent with the benefit accruing to the City as a result
of the Planned Development. As a condition for approval, each Planned
Development must be generally compatible with the character and objectives of
the zoning districts within which it is located, and each Planned Development
must be consistent with the objectives of the City's Comprehensive Plan.
      
      B.   Specific purposes of the Planned Development procedure are:
         1.   Residential Planned Development. To offer recreational
opportunities close to home and to enhance the appearance of neighborhoods by
the conservation of streams and points of natural beauty. To add to the sense
of spaciousness through the preservation of natural areas and open spaces, to
counteract the effects of urban monotony and congestion in the streets and to
encourage cooperative relationships between neighbors and participation by all
age groups in the use and care of local open space tracts in new residential
subdivisions. To promote appropriate architecture between adjacent dwellings or
institutional buildings, and to encourage the placement of structures in proper
relationship to the natural characteristics of the site, including cluster
development, where appropriate.
         2.   Office or Business Planned Development. To promote the
cooperative development of office or business centers each with adequate off-
street parking, to control access points to the street system and to separate
pedestrian and automobile traffic. To aid in stabilizing property values and to
develop centers of size and location compatible with the market potential, to
buffer adjacent residential areas with landscaped transition areas and to
encourage harmonious architecture between adjacent commercial structures and
between dwellings and commercial structures. Business Planned Developments
could include business or professional offices, as well as, retail and service
uses.
 
   1011.3 Initiation
The owner of the property for which a planned development is sought may
initiate a request for a special use planned development.
   1011.4 Procedure for Approval
      A.   Procedure
The application and plan and all other pertinent papers shall be forwarded to
the Planning Commission hearing, as prescribed in Section
1004  for Special Use Permits. However, under this procedure, the Planning
Commission shall make a recommendation to City Council and City Council shall
have final authority in the approval or denial of a Planned Development.
      B.   Pre-application Conference:
Prior to the filing of an application for approval of the preliminary plan, the
applicant must submit to the Building Commissioner a preliminary presentation
of the proposed planned development. The purpose of such pre-application
presentation and conference is to make advice and assistance available to the
applicant before preparation of the preliminary plan, so that the applicant may
determine:
         1.   Whether the proposed planned development appears in general to be
in compliance with the provisions of this Ordinance and other applicable
Ordinances.
         2.   Whether any zoning amendment, variation or special use is
required in connection with the proposed planned development.
         3.   Whether the proposed planned development will be in conformity
with approved plans for the City.
      C.   Submittal of Plan and Supporting Documentation
Application for approval of a planned development must be filed with the
Building Commissioner accompanied by sufficient copies of the plan, including,
without limitation, the following:
         1.   A tentative subdivision plan or plot plan which either conforms
to all requirements of the Subdivision Regulations or expressly states on its
face any variation from such requirements.
         2.   A proposed site plan meeting the requirement of a Major Site
Development Plan as described in Section
1013  below, showing the locations and dimensions of all proposed buildings.
         3.   Planned Development - Explanation of the character of the Planned
Development and the reasons why it has been planned to take advantage of the
flexibility of these regulations. A description of all variations from
underlying district regulations must be provided.
            a.   Development schedule indicating:
               1)   Stages in which project will be built with emphasis on
area, density, use, and public facilities such as open space to be developed
with each stage. Overall design of each stage must be shown on the plan and
through supporting graphic material.
               2)   Approximate dates for beginning and completion of each
stage.
            b.   Covenants - Proposed agreements, provisions, or covenants
which will govern the use, maintenance, and continued protection of the Planned
Development and any of its common open space.
            c.   Density - Provide information on the density of residential
uses, including dwelling units per acre, the number of dwelling units by type,
and the number of buildings by type.
            d.   Nonresidential Use - Provide information on the type and
amount of ancillary and nonresidential uses including the amount and location
of common open space.
            e.   Service Facilities - Provide information on all service
facilities and off-street parking facilities.
            f.   Architectural Plans - Preliminary architectural plans,
including elevations for all primary buildings must be submitted in sufficient
detail to permit an understanding of the style of the development, the design
of the building, and the number, size, and type of dwelling units.
            g.   An identification of any required Special Uses or Variances
required to accommodate the proposed plan.
            h.   Facilities plans for:
               1)   Roads, including classification and width of pavement
               2)   Sidewalks
               3)   Sanitary sewers
               4)   Storm drainage
               5)   Water supply system
               6)   Underground lighting program
               7)   A concept landscape planting plan.
         4.   A written statement signed by the applicant outlining and
describing in such detail as the City deems appropriate the arrangement by
which the applicant proposes to regulate land use and otherwise insure
development of the proposed planned development in accordance with the approval
of the Planning Commission and Council.
   1011.5 Use Exceptions
The Planning Commission may recommend that there be in part of the area of such
development, and for the duration of such development, specified uses not
permitted by the use regulations of the district in which such development is
located, provided that the applicant meets the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence, and provided that the Planning Commission finds
the development will meet the standards set forth below. The Council may
authorize such uses if it determines the applicant met the burden of proof and
if it makes the same findings:
      A.   That the uses permitted by such exception are necessary or desirable
and are appropriate with respect to the primary purpose of the development.
       B.   That the uses permitted by such exception are not of such a nature
or so located as to exercise a detrimental influence on the surrounding
neighborhood.
      C.   That not more than twenty five (25) percent of the ground area or of
the gross floor area of such development, whichever is greater, shall be
devoted to the uses permitted by such exception; however, in a residential
planned development not more than ten (10) percent of the total land area shall
be devoted to business uses.
   1011.6 Bulk Regulations
In the case of any planned development, the Planning Commission may recommend
exceptions to the applicable bulk regulations of this Ordinance within the
boundaries of such development, provided that the Planning Commission shall
determine that the applicant met the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence, and must find that the development will meet the standards set
forth below. The Council may authorize such exceptions if it makes the same
determination as to the applicant meeting the burden of proof and the same
findings:
      A.   That such exceptions must be solely for the purpose of promoting an
integrated site plan no less beneficial to the residents or occupants of such
development, as well as the neighboring property, than would be obtained under
the bulk regulations of this Ordinance for buildings developed on separate
zoning lots.
      B.   That the overall floor area ratio for a residential planned
development would not exceed by more than twenty five (25) percent the maximum
floor area ratio which would be determined on the basis of the floor area ratio
required for the individual uses in such Planned Developments.
      C.   That the minimum lot area per dwelling unit requirements of this
Ordinance shall not be decreased by more than twenty five (25) percent in any
such development containing residential uses.
      D.   That spacing between principal buildings, except those separated
only by approved fire walls, shall be at least equivalent to such spacing as
would be required between buildings similarly developed under the terms of this
Ordinance on separate zoning lots, due consideration being given to the
openness normally afforded by intervening streets and alleys, and along the
periphery of such planned development, yards must be provided as required by
the regulations of the district in which such development is located.
   1011.7 Planned Developments - Zoning Map
      A.   The Official Zoning Map must indicate the boundaries of property
subject to the planned development. Each zoning district within the planned
development shall be mapped. The designation "PD" must accompany each zoning
district designation.
   1011.8 Revocation and Expiration
      A.   Schedule of Construction
The City Council shall consider the planned development subject to revocation
if construction falls more than one (1) year behind the schedule filed with the
final plan. The developer shall be notified at least sixty (60) days prior to
any revocation hearing. Extensions in the building schedule may be granted by
the City Council without amendment to the planned development Special Use
Permit.
      B.   Revocation
Where a developer fails to comply with the construction schedule as established
under Section
1011 , 4, C., 3, a., above, the City may consider the revocation of the planned
development. Based upon the evidence presented to the City, including a finding
of failure to comply with the development schedule, and following public
hearing in accordance with the procedures for a Special Use Permit, the
Planning Commission may recommend and City Council may approve revocation of
the Special Use Permit and planned development.
   1011.9 Planned Development Ordinance, Penalties and Enforcement
      A.   Recording of Planned Development Ordinance
At the sole expense of the applicant, the Planned Development Ordinance and
attachments must be recorded in the Montgomery County Office of Recorder of
Deeds prior to the issuance of any building permits. Evidence of recording must
be provided to the Building Commissioner prior to the issuance of any permit
for the project.
      B.   Fees
Any person, firm, corporation, or agent, who files an application for amendment
or application for an Appeal, variation, or special use, or for any other
certificate or license required under the terms of this Ordinance, must be
charged a fee in accordance with a schedule of fees, as contained in Chapter
153  of the Municipal Code.
      C.   Penalties
Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or
refuses to comply with, shall upon conviction, be fined not less than $50.00
nor more than $200.00 for each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted
to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
   1011.10 Proceedings for Enforcement
      A.   In case any building or structure is constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure, or
land is used in violation of this Ordinance or other regulation made under the
authority conferred thereby, the City of Oakwood, in addition to other
remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceedings:
         1.   To prevent the unlawful construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair, conversion, maintenance, or use;
         2.   To prevent the occupancy of the building, structure, or land;
         3.   To prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about
the premises; or
         4.   To restrain, correct, or abate the violation.
Sec. 1012   Site Development Plan Review
   1012.1 Purpose of Site Development Plan Review
Site development plan review and approval is required to ensure that the use
and development of land as authorized under this Ordinance is undertaken in an
orderly and proper manner to: further the public health, safety and welfare of
our community; assure the availability of appropriate public and private
services and amenities; and, for minimizing the adverse effects of such
development.
The design, orientation and location of open spaces, buildings, structures,
signs and other improvements visible from public streets, places and ways has a
material and substantial relationship to property values in the City, and the
cost of the municipal services provided thereto. Further, neighborhoods and
commercial areas in other urban and suburban communities have deteriorated in
the past by reason of the lack of planning, neglect of proper maintenance
standards and the erection of buildings and structures unsuitable to and
incompatible with the character of adjoining areas, resulting in a reduction in
property values.
Therefore, it is the policy of the City of Oakwood that these regulations be
adopted to avoid and prevent deterioration of the function, character and
appearance of the City and provide a favorable environment for residents and
businesses, and to preserve and enhance the property values and the general
public welfare.
   1012.2 Major and Minor Site Development Plan Review Requirements Established
These regulations establish two procedures for site development plan review:
Major Site Development Plan Review, and Minor Site Development Plan Review. The
two procedures recognize the differences anticipated in the level of detail and
community interest in the various zoning petitions and permits authorized under
this Ordinance.
Minor Site Development Plan Review applies to zoning actions which are
typically less complex in site design and physical improvement descriptions.
The Minor Site Development Plan is required in applications for Conditional
Uses and Variances.
Major Site Development Plan Review requirements apply in petitions for Map
Amendments Special Use Permits, and Planned Developments. The procedures would
also apply in certain circumstances where building permits are sought for
multiple family residential and non-residential development projects within the
City. The major site development plan approval process anticipates the
potentially large and more complex development and improvement proposals.
Therefore, it is designed for a more rigorous and careful evaluation of the
development proposal.
Sec. 1013   Major Site Development Plan Review
   1013.1 Authority
The Planning Commission has the authority, to approve or disapprove site
development plans submitted for approval under this section.
   1013.2 Approved Plan - When Required
Site development plan approval shall be required for multiple family and
nonresidential development under the following intended situations:
      A.   Any new principal structure intended and designed for nonresidential
or multi- family occupancy (or complete redevelopment of any site for
nonresidential or multiple family uses) or the use of land for non-residential
purposes. This includes properties for which a Map Amendment is sought for a
multiple family or business zoning district.
      B.   Where an existing multiple family residential or non-residential
structure erected prior to the date of adoption of this Ordinance is proposed
to be expanded, for which the sum of gross floor area expansion(s) since the
date of this Ordinance are equal to or greater than twenty five (25) percent of
the total gross floor area of said structure.
      C.   Any new or modified building and/or site improvements for a zoning
lot which has previously received site development plan approval under this
Ordinance, re-approval of the plan is required for components of the plan which
depart from the approved site development plan. The extent of changes to be
incorporated in the submittal for re-approval must be determined by the City
Manager.
      D.   A site development plan shall not be required exclusively as a
change of use except where such change of use results in increased off-street
parking requirements which cannot currently be met on the site.
      E.   A site development plan shall be required along with any application
for a Special Use Permit which proposes physical change, as described under
items A through D, above.
      F.   These requirements exclude the legal reconstruction of legally
nonconforming buildings, when such buildings and related improvements are
substantially restored to their prior condition.
   1013.3 Initiation
Plan approval must be initiated by the owner of the property, or the owners
agent, for which plan approval is sought.
   1013.4 Procedure for Initiation
      A.   The owner of the property for which a Map Amendment or a Special Use
Permit is sought (requiring site development plan approval under Section
1013.2, above) must file an application for site development plan approval
along with such application for an amendment or Special Use Permit.
      B.   The owner of the property for which a building permit is sought
(requiring site development plan approval under Section 1013.2, above) and
which development has not been approved under the requirements of this section,
must file an application for site development plan approval along with an
application for such a zoning certificate or building permit.
      C.   The owner of the property, or a duly authorized representative of
the owner, must file an application for site development plan approval with the
Building Commissioner. It shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee as
established in Chapter
153  of the Municipal Code and must contain the following information:
         1.   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant including the
name and address of each person or entity owning an interest in the property,
and the extent of such ownership interest unless any of such entities is a
corporation or a partnership, in which case only those persons owning an
interest in excess of ten (10) percent in such corporation or partnership need
be identified by name, address and extent of interest. For purposes of this
section, the term ownership interest shall include any legal or equitable
interest held at the time of the application in the real property which is the
subject of the application. The application shall include the signature of the
owner(s).
         2.   A site development plan of the size and containing the
information required by Section 1013.5 of this Ordinance, below.
 
   1013.5 Contents of a Site Development Plan Application
The application must include compliance with the City's stormwater code (Part
Twelve - Stormwater Management Code) and shall include the following
information and material for sites and development projects. Except, however,
the Building Commissioner is authorized to waive requirements in this section
which are not affected by or do not apply to the proposed project:
      A.   Site Development Plan Application
         1.   A completed application form provided by the Building
Commissioner. Drawings and documentation submitted as part of the application
must be the same as that required for the zoning process under which the plan
is to be considered.
         3   The names and addresses of the persons responsible for preparing
the plan.
         4.   The present zoning of the site and adjoining property.
         5.   A plat plan of the parcel, lots or blocks, or parts or portions
thereof, drawn to scale showing dimensions, as certified by a registered
surveyor or a registered professional engineer, registered with the State of
Ohio, as a true copy of the parcel, lots or blocks, or portions thereof,
according to the registered or recorded plat of such land, also by proof that
the property has previously been surveyed and that the corners have been marked
in a permanent manner so as to be located easily. However, the Building
Commissioner may waive the certified plat described in subsection 1 hereof, if
in his opinion such information is unnecessary for proper review and
identification.
      B.   An existing conditions map shall show the location, dimensions, size
and height of the following, as applicable:
         1.   Sidewalks, streets, alleys, easements and utilities, including
street lighting.
         2.   Buildings and structures.
         3.   Septic fields, wells and public sewer and water systems.
         4.   Slopes, particularly slopes specifically in excess of fifteen
(15) percent, and terraces and retaining walls.
         5.   Driveways, entrances, exits, parking areas and sidewalks.
         6.   Water mains and fire hydrants.
         7.   Natural and artificial watercourses and bodies of water and
wetlands.
         8.   Limits of flood plains.
         9.   Areas that can reasonably be expected to or which do contain
soils or materials contaminated with but not limited to heavy metals, petroleum
products, PCB's, pesticides, or other toxic or hazardous materials.
         10.   Underground storage tanks, if any.
         11.   The topography of existing ground and paved areas, and
elevations of streets, alleys, utilities, sanitary and storm sewers, buildings
and structures. Topography is to be shown by dashed lines illustrating two (2)
foot standard contour intervals and/or by spot elevations where necessary to
indicate flat areas, as appropriate.
         12.   General alignment and lengths of all streets and all property
lines.
         13.   All fences and walls.
         14.   All building restriction lines, highway setback lines,
easements, covenants, reservations and rights-of-way.
         15.   Date, scale and north arrow.
         16.   Existing development on the site including principal and
accessory buildings, off-street parking and loading areas, and other
improvements, as applicable.
      C.   A separate site development plan shall be prepared to show the
general location, dimensions, size and height of the following regarding the
proposed development:
         1.   For a site development plan which includes any existing
structures or other improvements, an indication of those improvements that are
to remain and those which will be removed.
         2.   Sidewalks, streets, alleys, easements and utilities, including
street lighting and underground conduits for street lighting.
         3.   Buildings and structures with entrances and exits identified.
         4.   Utility plan for water and for sewage disposal.
         5.   Driveways, entrances, exits, parking areas and sidewalks.
         6.   Water mains and fire hydrants.
         7.   Proposed recreation areas.
         8.   Calculations of the following, as applicable:
            a.   number of dwelling units or square footage of non-residential
uses;
            b.   number of parking spaces;
            c.   number of loading spaces;
            d.   total land area;
            e.   total landscaped area;
            f.   total open space; and
            g.   total impervious surface.
         9.   A general indication of proposed grading, surface drainage,
terraces, retaining wall heights, grades on paved areas and ground floor
elevations of proposed buildings and structures, shown by two (2) foot contours
and approximate elevations.
         10.   A landscape plan showing the location, names and area coverage
of trees, shrubs and ground cover to be planted and the areas to be retained in
natural vegetation. Plans shall be prepared in accordance with Section
1015 , as applicable.
         11.   Plans for minimizing the impact on existing wetlands.
         12.   A light plan indicating all exterior building mounted and free-
standing lights and structures including overall height, type of lamp, and
luminaries.
          13.   Exterior building elevations of all proposed structures and
exterior elevations of existing buildings when existing buildings are proposed
to be structurally altered. Elevations must indicate the materials to be used
in the design of the structure and the proposed color scheme.
         14.   Elevations of proposed signage as well as the intended sign
message/display and the materials and colors intended for the sign.
         15.   A location map locating the site in relation to the nearest
intersection of two or more streets at a scale that can be easily traced.
      D.   Combined Existing Conditions Map and Site Plan
The requirements for each the Existing Conditions Map and Site Plan under
subsections B. and C., above may be combined in a single map upon approval by
the Building Commissioner.
         (Ord. 4671, passed 5/4/09, effective 6/4/09)
   1013.6 Agreement of Owner
All documents and information submitted as part of an application for site
development plan approval constitute a statement by the applicant that he/she
intends and agrees to be bound to develop in accord with such information upon
approval.
   1013.7 Notice Requirements
Site plans do not require any form of public notice, however a site development
plan application concurrently filed with an application for a Map Amendment or
an application for a Special Use Permit shall state that site development plan
approval is sought as part of the public notice in addition to the requested
Map and/or Special Use Permit Amendment.
   1013.8 Procedure for Decision - Planning Commission
With the exception of Map Amendments, Major Site Development Plans are subject
to the review and approval by the Planning Commission.
      A.   Planning Commission Action
Within ninety (90) days of the date the site development plan first appears on
the agenda of the Planning Commission for action, the Planning Commission shall
vote to approve, deny or approve the Plan with conditions. If the Planning
Commission fails to attain the required minimum of three votes to decide the
matter within ninety (90) days after the item has first appeared on the
Planning Commission's agenda, the Planning Commission shall be deemed to deny
the application for approval, unless such date is extended as mutually agreed
upon by the applicant and the Planning Commission.
      B.   City Council Action on Appeal
Within fifteen (15) days following the date of final action by the Planning
Commission, the petitioner may Appeal the Planning Commission's action to the
City Council by filing with the Clerk of Council a written Notice of Intent to
Appeal. A complete written appeal setting forth the facts, issues and arguments
shall be filed with the Clerk of Council by the petitioner within fifteen (15)
calendar days after filing the Notice of Intent to Appeal, or the Notice of
Intent to Appeal shall lapse and become void.
The City Council shall hold a public hearing and decide such appeal as its
agenda may permit, but not later than sixty (60) days after such written appeal
has been filed with the Clerk of Council. Notice of the public hearing need
only be made by publication in the manner described in Section 1008.3, with the
petitioner to pay the cost of publication. The City Council may reverse or
override any action of the Planning Commission, within the parameters of this
Ordinance, by a majority vote of the City Council. Lack of action on behalf of
Council resulting in expiration of the sixty (60) day action period shall be
deemed an affirmation of the Planning Commission's action.
         (Ord. 4709, passed 11/1/10, effective 12/1/10).
 
   1013.9 Criteria for Plans
The following criteria for site development plan review applies to plans not
associated with a Map Amendment, Special Use, or Planned Development petition.
In reviewing and determining whether to approve or disapprove a plan, the
Planning Commission shall consider those factors listed below which it
determines to be applicable to a given plan.
      A.   Conformance with Ordinances. The application must comply with the
provisions of this Ordinance and other Ordinances of the City and of any other
applicable laws.
      B.   Comprehensive Plan. The plan must be in reasonable conformity with
the Comprehensive Plan and any specific recommendations associated, or related
to the subject property.
      C.   Land-Use Compatibility and Integration. The overall design
integrates neighborhood and site characteristics into a compatible expression
of building mass, building scale, circulation and site improvements.
      D.   Minimize Impacts to Surrounding Land-Uses. The spatial and
functional design minimizes the potential impacts of noise, light, debris, and
other undesirable effects of development upon adjoining properties and the area
in general.
      E.   Architectural Compatibility. The plan is sensitive in the design of
structures through appropriate treatment to vertical and horizontal planes of
building facades, and makes use of appropriate building materials in
establishing an overall architectural "theme" for the development.
      F.   Signage. Signage is designed compatible in scale and character with
the overall development.
      G.   Site Access. Access to the site is designed to safely and
efficiently facilitate ingress and egress. The use of shared curb-cuts and
cross-access easements should be provided when appropriate.
      H.   Vehicle Circulation and Parking. Adequate provision has been made
for traffic circulation which is coordinated with, and minimizes impacts to the
adjoining street system. The plan should also demonstrate the provision of safe
and convenient off-street parking and loading areas. When appropriate, cross-
access easements should be provided between adjoining properties to allow for
expanded on-site circulation of vehicles.
      I.   Pedestrian Circulation. Adequate provision has been made to ensure
that the development will not create hazards to the safety of pedestrian
traffic on or off the site, vehicular or pedestrian circulation paths, or undue
interference and inconvenience pedestrian travel.
      J.   Utilities and Community Facilities. Reasonable provision has been
made to ensure that development will be served by essential public facilities
and services such as police and fire protection, drainage structures, refuse
disposal, public water supply, wastewater collection, and related facilities.
      K.   Screening and landscaping. The arrangement and selection of
landscaping materials should reinforce functional use areas of the site as well
as add natural beauty. Screening in the form of fences, walls and landscaping
should minimize the potential for nuisance impacts to surrounding properties.
      L.   Lighting. On-site lighting shall provide for adequate illumination
for vehicle and pedestrian safety. Lighting should not be permitted to
illuminate adjoining properties.
       M.   Detention and Retention Facilities. When appropriate, detention and
retention facilities should be designed to provide for shared storage between
properties. Detention and retention facilities should be appropriately
landscaped.
   1013.10 Conditions on Plans
The Planning Commission, in consideration of any site development plan may
impose certain conditions in granting plan approval to minimize any negative
impacts or minimize any adverse impacts due to the development.
   1013.11 Modifications of Plans
Changes to site development plans require reconsideration and reapproval by the
Planning Commission and City Council as provided in this section.
   1013.12 Lapse of Approval
Unless the Planning Commission provides otherwise, the term of site development
plan approval, plan approval shall automatically lapse one (1) year after the
date of approval of the plan, unless a building permit has been issued and
construction commenced.
Sec. 1014   Minor Site Development Plan Review
   1014.1 Authority
The City Manager, Board of Zoning Appeals, and Planning Commission may approve
or disapprove site development plans required to be submitted for approval
under this section.
   1014.2 Approved Plan - When Required
Minor site development plan approval shall be required for conditional use and
variation petitions authorized under this Ordinance. When a request for
variation is accompanied by a request for Special Use Permit or a request for a
Map Amendment, the procedures and requirements for Major Site Development Plan
approval shall apply.
   1014.3 Initiation
Plan approval must be initiated by the owner of the property, or the owner's
agent, for which plan approval is sought.
   1014.4 Procedure for Initiation
The owner of the property, or a duly authorized representative of the owner,
must file an application for Minor Site Development Plan approval with the
Building Commissioner concurrent with a petition for a conditional use or
variation request. A Minor Site Development Plan of the size and containing the
information required by Section 1014.5 of this Ordinance, below.
   1014.5 Contents of a Minor Site Development Plan Application
The application must include the following information and material for sites
and development projects. Except, however, the Building Commissioner is
authorized to waive requirements in this section which are not affected by or
do not apply to the proposed project:
      A.   Site Plan Application
1.   A completed application form provided by the Building Commissioner.
          2.   Each application must include four (4) copies of all documents
and drawings in relation to Conditional Use Permits and four (4) copies of all
documents and drawings in relation to Variances. All graphic plans shall be
dimensioned and drawn to scale.
         3.   A plat plan of the parcel, lots or blocks, or parts or portions
thereof, drawn to scale showing dimensions, as certified by a registered
surveyor or a registered professional engineer, registered with the State of
Ohio, as a true copy of the parcel, lots or blocks, or portions thereof,
according to the registered or recorded plat of such land, also by proof that
the property has previously been surveyed and that the corners have been marked
in a permanent manner so as to be located easily. However, the Building
Commissioner may waive the certified plat described in subsection 1 hereof, if
in his or her opinion, such information is unnecessary for proper review and
identification.
         4.   Any other information that may reasonably be required by the
Building Commissioner.
      B.   A site development plan shall be prepared to show the location,
dimensions, and size of proposed improvements.
   1014.6 Procedures for Decisions
Plans filed with an application for a Conditional Use Permit or with an
application for a Variance must be processed as a part of the Conditional Use
or Variance proceedings.
   1014.7 Standards for Plans
Plans must be approved or rejected in accord with the standards for Conditional
Uses or Variances identified in
Title 10,  Administration and Enforcement.
Sec. 1015   Landscape Plan Review
   1015.1 Purpose
The landscaping and screening standards in this section are intended to foster
aesthetically pleasing and functional development. The regulations also strive
to increase the compatibility between adjacent land use areas. The requirements
serve to minimize impacts from noise, dust, debris and motor vehicle headlight
glare to surrounding land use areas.
   1015.2 Landscape Plans - When Required
Landscape plans shall be required for all developments requiring Major Site
Development Plan Review. The procedure for landscape plan approval must follow
the procedure for site plan approval. When required, landscape plans shall be
prepared in accordance with the requirements of this subsection.
   1015.3 Submission Requirements
The number and size of drawings and documentation to be submitted with the
application shall be the same as that required for site development plan
review.
   1015.4 Requirements for a Landscaping Plan
A landscape plan must include the following elements:
      A.   A completed application form and appropriate fee as established in
Chapter
153  of the Administrative Code.
       B.   Consistent with the site development plan, the locations and
dimensions of all existing and/or proposed parking lots, drives, roadways, and
rights-of-way, sidewalks, bicycle paths, free-standing signs, refuse disposal
areas, bicycle parking areas, free-standing electrical equipment, free-standing
signs, building mounted, heating, ventilating and air circulation equipment,
and all fences.
      C.   Species, size and location of all existing trees greater than four
(4) inches in diameter.
      D.   Species, planting size and location of proposed plant material
required under this subsection.
      E.   Illustrations indicating the proposed locations and methods for
screening for refuse disposal areas, as applicable.
      F.   The location of all off-street loading areas, including an
indication whether any loading docks will be enclosed and methods of proposed
screening.
      G.   The location and placement of sprinkler heads of any proposed
irrigation system.
      H.   The following calculations, in square feet, displayed on the
landscape plan:
         1.   Total site area
         2.   Total area devoted to off-street parking (including access
drives)
         3.   Total area devoted to impervious surfaces
         4.   Total landscaped area
         5.   Total parking lot landscaped area
         6.   Total internal landscaping.
      I.   Any other plan documentation requirements, including elevations,
cross- sections and other plan details as deemed necessary by the Building
Commissioner.
   1015.5 Requirements for Interior Parking Lot Landscaping
      A.   Applicability
Interior parking lot landscaping shall apply to developments requiring eight
(8) or more off-street parking spaces.
      B.   Interior Parking Lot Landscaping
         1.   Coverage
Not less than five (5) percent of the interior of a parking lot shall be
devoted to landscaping. The "interior" of a parking lot shall mean the area
encompassed between the backs-of-curbs or edge of pavement encompassing the
drives and parking area serving the site. Perimeter landscaping islands
penetrating the parking area may count toward the five (5) percent minimum
landscaping requirement, provided all other requirements are met. Transitional
yards shall not count toward parking lot landscaping.
         2.   Landscape Areas
Interior parking lot landscaping is intended to be distributed throughout the
parking lot. The design should facilitate pedestrian access through the site
and seek to separate vehicle traffic from pedestrian traffic.
          3.   Landscaping Material
            a.   Type. The primary landscaping materials used in parking lots
shall be shade trees which provide for shade. Ornamental trees, shrubbery and
other live planting material may be used to supplement shade trees.
            b.   Quantity. One large to medium shade tree must be provided for
each one hundred and eighty (180) square feet of land- scaped area.
            c.   Ground Cover. A minimum of seventy five (75) percent of each
interior parking lot landscaping area must be composed of live landscape
material.
   1015.6 Requirements for Perimeter Parking Lot Landscaping
      A.   Applicability
Perimeter parking lot landscaping shall be required except where parking lots
are adjacent to a required transitional yard. Perimeter parking lot landscaping
shall apply to all off-street parking areas regardless of size.
      B.   Landscaping
         1.   Planting material
            a.   Across from a Residential Property
Where a parking lot is located across a dedicated public right- of-way from
property zoned for a residential district, landscaping shall be provided across
one hundred (100) percent of the parking lot perimeter facing the public street
(except for intersecting drives, signs and other obstructions to landscaping)
to a minimum of three (3) feet in height. Such landscaping must consist of
shrubbery.
            b.   Across From or Adjoining a Nonresidential Property
Where a parking lot is located across a dedicated public right- of-way from or
adjoins property zoned for a nonresidential use, or designated for non-
residential use in the Comprehensive Plan, landscaping must be provided across
fifty (50) percent of the street frontage to a minimum of three (3) feet in
height. Such landscaping must consist of shrubbery.
         2.   Ground Cover
Except where occupied by planting beds, all perimeter parking lot landscaped
areas located in a front yard must be seeded or covered with sod.
   1015.7 Requirements for Transitional Yards
      A.   Applicability
Transitional yards are intended to provide a physical separation between
potentially incompatible land uses. In business districts where a transitional
yard is required, the requirements of this section shall substitute for any
parking lot screening requirement along the portion(s) of an affected yard. For
non- residential uses in residential districts, and multiple family residential
uses, these requirements shall apply to potions of the affected zoning lot, as
appropriate.
Screening is required within the yard(s) of a nonresidential development, or
when the nonresidential use is within a residential district directly adjoining
a residential use. Transitional screening is also required between multiple
family and single family detached residential uses. The petitioner must develop
and landscaping and screening plan for the area which incorporates the
following design principles
         1.   While quantities of landscaping are not fixed, the plan should
include both deciduous and coniferous materials to effectuate a year round
screen. It could include shade trees, ornamental plantings, and shrubbery to
establish screening at varying heights.
         2.   The location of plant materials should be sensitive to use areas
on the site. For example, more attention should be given to screening activity
areas such as parking and loading location and refuse areas from adjoining
residential uses.
         3.   The screening plan should also consider the appropriate use of
fences and walls in combination with landscaping particularly in transition
yards of minimum depth.
         4.   For purposes of screening, all materials and improvements must
not necessarily be located within the transition yard itself to effectively
serve the intent of this section.
   1015.8 Screening and Landscaping Requirements for Building Appurtenances and
Related Elements.
      A.   Exterior Electrical and Utility Equipment
All ground mounted electrical and utility-related connection and service boxes
must be effectively screened with shrubbery or other forms of living plant
material to a minimum of fifty (50) percent opacity at the time of planting.
Alternative methods of screening may be approved by the Building Commissioner
where it is found that the size or positioning of the equipment to be screened
presents unique conditions or difficulty in accomplishing the intent of this
paragraph. This provision is not intended to apply to individual service
pedestals less than twelve (12) inches by twelve (12) inches.
      B.   Free-Standing Signs
All free-standing sign locations must provide for landscaping around the base
of the sign a minimum of two (2) feet from any portion of the base of the sign.
Landscaping shall include shrubbery or annual flowering plant material or other
plant material.
   1015.9 Minimum Planting Requirements
      A.   Minimum planting sizes shall be as follows:
         1.   Large deciduous shade trees - three (3) inches caliper as
measured six (6) inches above ground.
         2.   Medium deciduous shade trees - two and one-half (2 ½) inches
caliper as measured six (6) inches above ground.
         3.   Small deciduous and ornamental trees - eight (8) feet in height,
with the exception of true dwarf species.
         4.   Evergreens - six (6) feet in height.
         5.   Shrubs - twenty-four (24) inches.
         6.   Ground cover plants, whether in the form of crowns, plugs or
containers, shall be planted in numbers appropriate by species to provide fifty
(50) percent surface coverage after one growing season.
   1015.10 Landscaping Maintenance
Trees, shrubs, and other landscaping materials depicted on landscaping plans
approved by the City shall be considered to be elements of the project in the
same manner as building, parking, and service areas. The developer, its
successor and/or subsequent owners and their agents shall be responsible for
maintenance of landscaping on the property on a continuing basis for the life
of the development. Plant materials which exhibit evidence of insect pests,
disease and/or damage must be appropriately treated, and dead plants promptly
removed and replaced within the next planting season after installation. All
landscaping will be subject to periodic inspection by the Building
Commissioner, or his or her designee. Should landscaping not be installed,
maintained and replaced as needed to comply with the approved plan, the owner
and its agent or agents shall be considered in violation of the terms of the
Certificate of Occupancy. The Building Commissioner is empowered to enforce the
terms of this Title.
      A.   As a condition to issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy, a cash
escrow or irrevocable letter of credit in the amount of twenty-five (25)
percent of the initial landscaping costs shall be posted to ensure the needed
replacement of materials and the continued maintenance of the same for a period
of two (2) years after initial installation. Said cash escrow or irrevocable
letter of credit shall be annually renewable and may be forfeited if the
necessary maintenance and replacement has not been performed in a satisfactory
manner within the two (2) year period. As an alternative to a letter of credit
or cash escrow, a performance bond may be submitted, subject to approval by the
City Attorney. Further, should it be determined that the landscaping as
approved on the landscaping plan is not being maintained as specified beyond
the initial two (2) year maintenance period, resubmission of the approved plan
and the posting of an additional maintenance escrow may be required by the
City.
   1015.11 Administrative Relief
A written application for administrative relief of the requirements of
subsections 1015.5 and 1015.6 may be filed with the Building Commissioner as
part of an application for landscape plan approval. Four (4) copies of the
application and all supporting documentation must be submitted. Such
application shall be submitted with the landscape plan and demonstrate the
following:
      A.   The strict application of the regulation in question is unreasonable
given the development proposal or the measures proposed by the applicant, or,
that the property has extraordinary or exceptional physical conflicts that do
not generally exist in nearby properties in the same zoning district and such
conditions will not allow a reasonable use of the property in absence of
relief.
      B.   Dependent upon the approval process under which the application for
relief is sought, the approving authority shall make the final decision upon
whether any relief from these requirements may be approved.
      C.   As a condition of granting any administrative relief, the approving
authority, may require alternative improvements, or stipulate such conditions
as appropriate.
 
Sec. 1016   Business District Design Review Guidelines
   1016.1 Applicability
      A.   Where Applicable
In the event of any modification to the exterior of any existing building,
including but not limited to, colors, building mass and style, architectural
details, facade, doors, windows, awnings, signage, lighting and planting
schemes and in the event of the construction of any new building or addition,
awning, signage or lighting all of the provisions of the City of Oakwood
Business District Design Guidelines shall apply. These regulations are
applicable in the NB and CB business districts.
The City Manager is authorized to interpret the applicability of the
requirements of this section on a case-by-case basis. In recognition of the
fact that not every "change" to an existing building will constitute a
departure from the basic structural design, architectural components, and
appropriate materials, the City Manger may approve minor changes to structures
in accord with the following criteria:
         1.   The change does not constitute a building or habitable space
addition;
         2.   The change does not alter, and is consistent with the basic
architectural components of the structure;
         3.   The change does not involve the addition of new signage.
At the applicants cost, the City Manager may retain the services of a competent
architect to assist in a decision of whether: 1) the change constitutes a minor
change; and 2) that the proposed changes are consistent with the basic
architectural and design elements of the existing improvement.
All other changes are considered major changes and shall be approved in accord
with the provisions of this section.
      B.   Applications Involving Zoning Amendments, Special Use Permits,
Variances and Major Site Development Plan Review.
For projects or modifications which would otherwise require Site Development
Plan Review, Map Amendments, Special Use or Variance approval, review of the
application under the City of Oakwood Business District Design Guidelines shall
be undertaken as a part of that process.
      C.   Applications Requiring a Building Permit
The owner, lessee or the authorized agent must submit an application for said
modification and/or new construction on a form prescribed by the Building
Commissioner. If the Building Commissioner determines that the proposed
modification or new construction fully complies with all applicable provisions
of the City of Oakwood Business District Design Guidelines, the application may
be approved administratively and the necessary permits issued. If the Building
Commissioner determines that the proposed modification or new construction will
deviate from the applicable provisions of the City of Oakwood Business District
Design Guidelines, the applicant shall be so advised and, thereafter, the
application must be processed as a special use application in accordance with
the provisions of Section
1008  of this Ordinance.
   1016.1 Design Guidelines
Copies of the Oakwood Business District Design Guidelines are available for
inspection or purchase at the Municipal Offices.
TITLE 11. OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
Sec. 1100 Purpose
The purpose of this Title is to set forth the comprehensive procedures, rules
and requirements deemed necessary to provide adequate parking, loading,
circulation and access for all areas in the City of Oakwood.
Sec. 1101 Off-Street Parking
   1101.1 Parking and Loading Generally
      A.   Existing Parking and Loading Facilities
Off-street parking and loading facilities in existence on the effective date of
this Ordinance must not hereafter be reduced below, or if already less than,
shall not be further reduced below, the requirements for a similar new building
or use under the provisions of this Title.
      B.   Parking and Loading Facilities
Nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to prevent the voluntary
establishment of off-street parking or loading facilities to serve any existing
use of land or buildings, provided that all regulations herein governing the
location, design, and operation of such facilities are adhered to.
      C.   Submission of Parking and Loading Plan
Any application for a building permit, zoning certificate, or occupancy
certificate, or where site plan approval, special use or planned unit
development approval are required shall include a site plan meeting the
requirements of
Title 10 , Section
1012  including the parking and loading plan conforming to the requirements of
this Title.
      D.   On-Street Parking Permitted in Limited Circumstances
Anything in this Ordinance to the contrary notwithstanding, in those
circumstances in which a property does not have on-site parking available, 100%
of the parking facilities required by this ordinance may be provided by
available spaces not on the zoning lot on which the building or use is located,
or by available on-street parking identified through a parking study
commissioned and paid for by the applicant. In the event that the required
parking facilities are being provided exclusively by available on-street
parking, such a request shall require a special use. (See also Section 1006.3
C.) (Amended Ord. 4511, effective 8/15/02).
   1101.2 Off-Street Parking
      A.   General Requirements
         1.   Location
All parking spaces required to serve uses or buildings erected or established
after the effective date of this Title shall be located on the same zoning lot
as the building or use served, except that parking spaces to serve businesses
may be located within four hundred (400) feet of such use if said spaces and
uses they are intended to serve are located in a Business zoning district.
         2.   Control of Off-Site Parking Facilities
In cases where parking facilities are permitted on land other than the zoning
lot on which the building or use served is located, such facilities must be in
the same possession as the zoning lot occupied by the building or use to which
the parking facilities are accessory (except as provided under section A.,5,
below). Such possession may be either by deed or long-term lease, the term of
such lease to be determined by the Planning Commission; and such deed or lease
must be filed for approval by the City Attorney. The deed or lease shall
require such owner, heirs and assigns to maintain the required number of
parking facilities for the duration of the use served. The deed or lease must
be recorded in the Montgomery County Office of the Recorder of Deeds.
         3.   Size
Except for parallel parking spaces and handicapped parking spaces, each
required off-street parking space must be at least eight and one- half (8.5)
feet in width and at least twenty (20) feet in length, exclusive of access
drives or aisles, ramps, or columns. Such space shall have a vertical clearance
of at least seven (7) feet, and shall be measured at right angles to the axis
of the vehicle. For parallel parking, the length of the parking space shall be
increased to twenty two (22) feet.
         4.   Access
Each off-street parking space must open directly upon an aisle or driveway at
least twelve (12) feet wide or such additional width and design as to provide
safe and efficient means of vehicular access to such parking space. Access
aisles for which serve parking both sides of a parking access aisle shall be
designed with the following aisle widths:
               22' wide for 90 parking
               18' wide for 60 parking
               15' wide for 45 parking
All off-street parking facilities must be designed with appropriate means of
vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner which will least interfere
with traffic movement. For single family detached uses, access to an alley is
preferred, wherever feasible.
         5.   Collective Provision
Off-street parking facilities for separate uses may be provided collectively if
the total number of spaces so provided is not less than the sum of the separate
requirements of each such use and all regulations governing location of
accessory parking spaces in relation to the use served are adhered to. Further,
no parking space or portion thereof shall serve as a required space for more
than one use unless otherwise authorized by the Planning Commission, and except
as provided in paragraph 6, below.
         6.   Shared Parking Facilities
            a.   As much as fifty (50) percent of the off-street parking
facilities required under this Title for a religious or public institution, or
an establishment for the sale and consumption on the premises of food,
alcoholic beverages, or refreshments, and up to one hundred (100) percent of
such facilities required for a church or an auditorium incidental to a public
or parochial school, may be supplied by off-street parking facilities provided
for certain other kinds of buildings or uses specified in subsequent paragraph
b. below, which are not normally open, used, or operated during the principal
operating hours of the aforesaid establishments provided that a properly drawn
legal instrument is executed by all the parties concerned for the joint use of
the off-street parking facilities, which instrument, duly approved as to form
and manner of execution by the City Attorney, shall be filed with the
application for a permit.
            b.   Buildings or uses not normally open, used, or operated during
the principal operating hours of theaters, churches, or other of the aforesaid
establishments are defined as banks, business offices, retail stores, personal
service shops, manufacturing buildings, and similar uses.
            c.   Shared off-street parking may be approved by the Building
Commissioner where an application does not otherwise require any form of plan
approval by the Planning Commission and City Council. The Building
Commissioner, Planning Commission or City Council may require any necessary
studies on behalf of the applicant to determine the operational characteristics
of the shared parking arrangement proposal.
         8.   Computation
When determination of the number of off-street parking spaces required by this
Ordinance results in a requirement of a fractional space, any fraction shall be
counted as one (1) parking space. Parking spaces required on an employee basis
shall be based on the maximum number of employees on duty or residing or both,
on the premises at any one time.
         9.   Utilization
Except as may otherwise be provided, the parking of trucks in the granting of
special uses, site plans, planned unit developments, required accessory off-
street parking facilities provided for uses shall be solely for the parking of
passenger automobiles of patrons, occupants, or employees of such uses.
         10.   Parking for the Handicapped
Within all parking lots or garages, parking spaces must be reserved for the
handicapped. Such parking spaces must conform with the requirements of current
state and federal regulations with regard to the number of required spaces,
parking space dimensions, and signage.
   1101.3 Design and Maintenance - Surface Parking and Circulation Areas
      A.   Plan: The design of parking lots or areas shall be subject to the
approval of the Building Commissioner, or in the case of Site Plans, Special
Uses and Planned Developments, the Planning Commission and/or the City Council.
      B.   Character: Accessory parking spaces may be open to the sky, or
enclosed in a building.
      C.   Surfacing: All open off-street parking areas must be surfaced with a
dustless all-weather material (such as bituminous asphalt, concrete, paving
stones or paving bricks) capable of carrying a wheel load of 4,000 pounds.
      D.   Drainage: Proper drainage must be provided as approved by the City
Engineer. Storm water detention facilities shall be permitted in off-street
parking areas for multiple family residential and business areas, and have a
maximum storage depth of six (6) inches for a one hundred (100) year flood
design.
      E.   Screening and Landscaping: Parking lot screening and landscaping
must be in accordance with Section
1015 .
      F.   Lighting: Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking areas
must be directed away from residential properties and public streets in such a
way as not to create a nuisance. However, in no case shall such lighting exceed
one- half (0.5) foot-candle measured at the lot (or zoning lot) line.
      G.   Cleaning and Maintenance: Except in the Business districts, no
cleaning or maintenance of parking lots utilizing motorized equipment may be
performed between 11:30 P.M. and 6:00 A.M. each day, except for the removal of
snow.
      H.   Barrier Curbs and Striping: The perimeter of all parking lots,
planting islands, access aisles, and other locations where deemed appropriate,
shall be improved with barrier curbs. All interior portions of the lot must be
appropriately striped for circulation and designation of off-street parking
spaces, in accordance with the approved site or development plan. This
provision does not apply to single family detached and two family dwellings.
      I.   Signs: Accessory signs shall be permitted and are encouraged in
parking areas in accordance with the provisions specified in
Title 12.  Parking facilities are encouraged to provide adequate directional
signage to assist patrons in circulating through the sites and facilities to
final destinations.
      J.   Repair and Service: No motor vehicle repair work or service of any
kind shall be permitted in association with parking facilities, with the
exception of emergency services.
   1101.4 Design and Maintenance - Structured Parking Facilities
Structured parking is permitted only through a Special Use Permit, the design
of which is subject to the approval of the City Council.
   1101.5 Residential Off-Street Parking Design Standards
      A.   Location of Required Off-Street Parking
         1.   Off-street parking spaces and access aisles and drives must not
be located closer than five (5) feet from any property line. Off-street parking
is not allowed in front or corner side yards.
         2.   The total number of accessory off-street parking spaces provided
for a single family, two family, or multiple family dwelling must not exceed
that required by this Ordinance for such use by more than fifty (50) percent or
four spaces.
      B.   Design of Off-Street Parking Areas.
         1.   All driveways and access aisles shall be improved with a
bituminous asphalt, concrete or paving block surface.
         2.   Beginning in the front yard or corner side yard, and extending to
the rear line of the principal structure, no driveway serving any single family
detached or two family dwelling shall be wider than twelve (12) feet. In any
event, for single family detached uses, driveway width shall exceed the width
of the garage door, if any, by more than one (1) foot each side of the garage
door. Three point turn arounds are not permitted, except behind the rear
building line.
 
      C.   Design of Attached and Detached Garages
         1.    Attached and detached garages serving residential uses shall be
designed in proportion and scale with the principal structure and the zoning
lot on which it is to be constructed.
Sec. 1102 Parking Space Requirements
   1102.1 Parking Space and Design
      A.   Spaces Required
Off-street parking spaces shall be provided in accordance with Table 1, Off-
Street Parking. Parking spaces for accessory uses not specifically enumerated
within a parking class shall be assumed to be included in the principal
(permitted or special) use requirement. If the classification of any use, for
the purpose of determining the amount of off-street parking, or the number of
spaces to be provided by such use is not readily determinable hereunder, the
parking class of such use shall be established by the Building Commissioner.
TABLE 1
OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
Uses                                      Required Spaces
Residential Related Uses                   
Dwelling, guest house
Dwelling, single family                   2/Dwelling unit
Dwelling, two family
Dwelling, multiple family                  
Studio/Efficiency                         1/Dwelling Unit
1   bedroom                            1.5/Dwelling Unit
2   bedroom                            1.8/Dwelling Unit
more than 2 bedrooms                   2/Dwelling Unit
Senior citizen housing (independent       .5/Dwelling unit
living)
Dependent or semi-dependent senior        1.25/Dwelling unit
citizen facilities
Convalescent home, or rest home
Convent, monastery                        1/1,000 sq. ft. gross floor area
Parsonage, rectory or parish house
Public, Quasi-Public Uses                  
Library, museum, gallery                  2/1,000 sq. ft. of floor area.
                                          One parking space shall be provided
                                          for each employee. If a library is
                                          located on land owned by the City of
                                          Oakwood, this off-street parking
Nursery school                            requirement may be waived in whole or
                                          in part by the City Council in the
                                          interests of the preservation of
                                          public welfare through maintaining
                                          such City owned land for uses other
                                          than off- street parking.
Churches, chapels, synagogues, temples    1/each 6 seats
Elementary school                         1/each employee
Junior high school
                                          One parking space shall be provided
                                          for each two (2) employees, and one
High school                               (1) parking space shall be provided
                                          for each three students, based on the
                                          projected maximum number of students
                                          sixteen years of age or older.
School auditoriums, gymnasiums,           One parking space shall be provided
grandstands                               for each three seats.
Clubs and lodges                          5/1000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Recreational Uses                          
Athletic fields
Public parks and play grounds             1/5,000 sq. ft. of gross area
Tennis courts and clubs
Recreation/community centers              3/1,000 sq. ft. gross floor area
Meting hall                               0/1,000 sq. ft. gross floor area
Public swimming pool                      1/75 sq.ft. of water surface
Business Related Uses                      
Business Retail Uses                       
Apparel
Antique store
Appliance
Bakery, retail
Banks and financial institutions
Card Store
Day Care Center                           4/1,000 sq.ft. of gross floor area
Delicatessen
Furniture store
Gift Store
Grocery store/food store
Medical office
Medical and dental laboratories
Offices, business and professional
Barber shops
Beauty shop/salon/spa   
Florist
Hardware store                            4/1,000 sq.ft. of gross floor area
Ice cream shop
Shopping centers
Tobacco store
Wine shops
Business Service Uses                      
Business machines sales and service   
Office supply and equipment
Catering serving                          3/1,000 sq.ft. of gross floor area
Carpet and flooring store
Dry cleaning
Fitness/health/wellness service   
Interior decorator
School for music and dance                3/1,000 sq.ft. of gross floor area
Travel agency
Laboratory testing and research
Lock smith
Personal services                         3/1,000 sq.ft. of gross floor area
Photography studio                         
Tailor shop
Medical and dental clinics
Printing and publishing                   6/1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Restaurant
Schools, music and business               1/each two (2) students and one (1)
                                          for each employee
Undertaking establishments and funeral    5/1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
parlors
Determined by Planning Commission and/or   
City Council
Planned Developments
Public utility, municipal and service      
uses Seasonal and temporary uses
 
 
Sec. 1103 Off-Street Loading
   1103.1 General Requirements
      A.   Location, Enclosure and Screening: All required loading berths must
be located on the same zoning lot as the use served. All motor vehicle loading
berths which abut a residential district or an intervening alley separating a
residential district from a business, commercial or industrial district must be
constructed of completely enclosed docks and landscaped with densely-planted
mature shrubbery or any combination thereof as part of an approved landscape
plan in accordance with
Title 11 . All loading berths which abut a residence district or intersecting
alley separating the residence district from a business district shall be
screened to a height of eight (8) feet. No permitted or required loading berth
shall be located within thirty (30) feet of a pavement line or any property
line. No loading berth shall be located in a required front or side yard nor
within thirty five (35) feet of the nearest point of intersection of any two
streets, nor within seventy five (75) feet of any residentially zoned property.
      B.   Size: Unless otherwise specified, a required off-street loading
berth shall be at least twelve (12) feet in width by at least thirty (30) feet
in length, exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space, and shall have a vertical
clearance of at least fifteen (15) feet.
      C.   Access: Each required off-street loading berth must be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner which
will least interfere with traffic movement, and shall be subject to approval by
site development plan review, or the Building Commissioner, as applicable.
      D.   Surfacing: All open off-street parking areas must be surfaced with a
dustless all-weather material (such as bituminous asphalt, concrete, paving
stones or paving bricks) capable of carrying a wheel load of 4,000 pounds.
      E.   Repair and Service: No motor vehicle repair work or service of any
kind must be permitted in conjunction with loading facilities provided in any
zoning district.
      F.   Utilization: Space allocated to any off-street loading use shall
not, while so allocated, be used to satisfy the space requirements for any
access aisle or off- street parking facilities.
   
      G.   Minimum Facilities: Uses for which off-street loading facilities are
required herein, but which are located in buildings of less floor area than the
minimum prescribed for such required facilities, must be provided with adequate
receiving facilities, accessible by motor vehicle off any adjacent alley or
service drive or open space on the same zoning lot.
         1.   When the intensity of use of any building, structure or premises
shall be increased through the addition of dwelling units, gross floor area,
seating capacity, or other units of measurement specified herein for required
loading facilities, loading facilities as required herein must be provided for
such increase in intensity of use and for at least fifty (50) percent of any
existing deficiency in parking or loading facilities.
         2.   Whenever the existing use of a building or structure shall
hereafter be changed to a new use, loading facilities must be provided as
required for such new use. However, if the building or structure was erected
prior to the effective date of this Ordinance, additional loading facilities
are mandatory only in the amount by which the requirements for the new use
would exceed those for the existing use, if the latter were subject to the
parking and loading provisions of this Ordinance.
   1103.2 Specific Requirements
      A.   Residential Districts
Off-street loading facilities accessory to uses allowed in the several
residential districts shall be provided in accordance with the following
minimum requirements.
         1.   For the uses listed hereunder, one (1) loading berth shall be
provided for buildings containing 10,000 to 100,000 square feet of gross floor
area, plus one (1) additional loading berth for each additional 100,000 square
feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof.
             a.   Educational and cultural institutions.
            b.   Philanthropic and charitable institutions.
            c.   Multiple family residential structures.
            d.   Religious institutions.
         2.   Recreational and social facilities. For buildings containing
10,000 to 100,000 square feet of gross floor area, one (1) loading berth shall
be provided, and for each additional 100,000 square feet of gross floor area up
to 500,000 square feet, one (1) additional loading berth must be provided, plus
one (1) additional loading berth for each additional 500,000 square feet of
gross floor area or fraction thereof in excess of 500,000 square feet.
         3.   Planned developments, residential: Loading berths shall be
provided on the basis of the required berths for each individual use.
         4.   For all other nonresidential uses, loading facilities shall be
provided in accordance with the following requirements:
            a.   For buildings containing less than 10,000 square feet of gross
floor area, there shall be provided on the same zoning lot adequate receiving
facilities, accessible by motor vehicle, off any adjacent alley, service drive,
or open space.
            b.   For buildings containing 10,000 to 100,000 square feet of
gross floor area, one (1) off-street loading berth shall be provided.
            c.   For buildings containing over 100,000 square feet of gross
floor area, there shall be provided one (1) loading berth for each 100,000
square feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof.
      
      B.   Business Districts
Off-street loading spaces accessory to uses permitted in the several business
districts must be provided in accordance with the following minimum
requirements:
         1.   Any use listed in a residential district that is also permitted
in any of the several business districts must provide loading spaces as
established for that use in the preceding section for residential districts.
         2.   For the uses listed thereunder, one (1) loading berth shall be
provided for buildings containing 10,000 to 100,000 square feet of gross floor
area; for each additional 100,000 square feet of gross floor area up to 500,000
square feet, one (1) additional loading berth shall be provided, plus one (1)
additional loading berth for each additional 500,000 square feet of gross floor
area or fraction thereof in excess of 500,000 square feet.
            a.   Banks and financial institutions.
            b.   Medical and dental clinics.
            c.   Medical and dental laboratories
            d.   Offices, business and professional.
            e.   Recreation buildings and community centers, non-commercial.
            f.   Undertaking establishments
          3.   For the uses listed hereunder, one (1) loading berth shall be
provided for buildings containing 10,000 to 100,000 square feet of gross floor
area, plus one (1) additional loading berth for each additional 150,000 square
feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof. Each such loading berth for
buildings in excess of 20,000 square feet of gross floor area shall be not less
than twelve (12) feet in width by fifty five (55) feet in length.
            a.   Clubs and lodges (not-for-profit) containing retail shops,
auditoriums, or business or professional office (other than accessory).
            b.   Recording studios.
         4.   For the uses listed hereunder, one (1) loading berth shall be
provided for buildings containing 5,000 to 40,000 square feet of gross floor
area. For buildings containing 40,000 to 100,000 square feet of gross floor
area, two (2) loading berths must be provided, plus one (1) additional loading
berth for each additional 100,000 square feet of gross floor area or fraction
thereof. Each such loading berth for buildings in excess of 10,000 square feet
in gross floor area shall be not less than twelve (12) inches in width by fifty
five (55) feet in length.
            a.   Printing and publishing.
         5.   For the uses listed hereunder, one (1) loading berth shall be
provided for buildings containing 10,000 to 150,000 square feet of gross floor
area, plus one (1) additional loading berth for each additional 200,000 square
feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof.
            a.   Clubs and lodges (not-for-profit) -- containing no retail
shops, or business or professional offices (other than accessory).
            b.   Meeting halls.
            c.   Schools music, dance, business, and trade.
            d.   Theaters, indoor.
         6.   For the uses listed hereunder, buildings containing 7,000 to
100,000 square feet of gross floor area, one (1) loading berth shall be
provided, plus one (1) additional loading berth for each additional 100,000
square feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof.
            a.   Undertaking establishments and funeral homes.
         7.   Parking lots and garages. There shall be no requirements for off-
street loading.
         8.   Planned developments, business: Loading berths must be provided
on the basis of the required berths for each individual use.
          9.   For all other uses, loading facilities must be provided in
accordance with the following schedule:
 
Gross Floor Area of      Required Number and
Establishments in        Size of Berths
Thousands of Square Feet
5 to 20                  1 - (12 ft. x 30 ft.)
20 to 40                 2 - (12 ft. x 30 ft. each)
 
   
For each additional 200,000 square feet in gross floor area or fraction
thereof, over 100,000 square feet of gross floor area, one (1) additional
loading berth shall be provided, such additional berth to be at least twelve
(12) feet in width by fifty five (55) feet in length.
TITLE 12. SIGNS
1201.01    Purpose.
1201.02    How signs are regulated.
1201.03    Prohibited and exempt signage.
1201.04    Temporary signs.
1201.05    Signs requiring permits.
1201.06    General sign regulations.
1201.07   Sign regulations by district.
1201.08    Regulations by sign type.
1201.09   Non-conforming and unsafe signs and nuisances.
1201.10   Conflicts and severability.
   1201.01 PURPOSE.
   The regulations of
Title 12 are established in order to achieve the following purposes:
   A.   To preserve the non-commercial character of residential neighborhoods,
and to provide reasonable yet appropriate conditions for identifying
businesses, institutions, and services rendered in business zoning districts by
controlling the size, type and design of signs in relation to the type and size
of establishment.
   B.   To reduce traffic hazards by restricting signs and lights which exceed
the viewers' capacity to receive information or which increase the probability
of accidents created by distracting attention or obstructing vision.
   C.   To preserve order and cleanliness, maintain open spaces and avoid the
appearance of clutter, protect property values, and prevent nuisances and
invitations to vandalism.
   D.   To protect the public peace, health, safety, welfare, convenience and
comfort.
   E.   To achieve these and other purposes in a content-neutral manner that
preserves, protects, and respects constitutional principles of free speech.
   1201.02 HOW SIGNS ARE REGULATED.
   Signs shall be constructed, erected, enlarged, altered, operated,
maintained, and removed in accordance with the provisions set forth in this
Title. Signs are regulated by different means, including those enumerated in
this section. Each means of regulation has an impact on the design of a sign
and the regulations are applied collectively to each sign installation.
   A.   Other City Codes.
      1.   All signs shall be constructed, erected and maintained in accordance
with the Oakwood Building Code and the Oakwood Property Maintenance Code.
      2.   The provisions of this Title shall not amend, nor in any way
interfere with, other codes, rules or regulations governing traffic signs or
other regulatory signs within the City. Should there be any conflict between
any regulation in this Title and any other lawfully adopted rule, regulation or
ordinance, the more restrictive provision shall prevail.
   B.   Regulations Found Within This Title.
      1.   Classification of Signs. Four classes of signs are regulated by the
City: Prohibited, Exempt, Temporary, and those requiring permits. Regulations
for each of these are included within this Title.
      2.   Sign Function and Type Regulated by District. Regulations specific
to a particular district are included in Section
1201.07 , Sign Regulations by District. The zoning districts regulate what sign
type may be used in that district. Further limitations to height or sign area
may be placed upon signs as part of a particular district's regulations.
      3.   Design Characteristics Regulated by Sign Type. Sign Types are
regulated in Section
1201.08,  Regulations by Sign Type. Standard requirements for height and sign
area are included for each sign type. These regulations may be further altered
within districts for specific applications of a particular sign type.
      4.   Primary and Secondary Signs. Window, projecting and canopy signs,
where permitted, may be installed either as primary or secondary signs subject
to all the other applicable regulations for such signs. Regulation of the sign
and limitations upon other signage are dependent upon whether the sign owner
has chosen to install the sign as primary or secondary. Such restrictions are
established in Section  
1201.08,  Regulations by Sign Type.
      5.   Additional Factors. Certain signs are regulated on the basis of
additional factors which are set forth in applicable sections of this Title.
   1201.03 PROHIBITED AND EXEMPT SIGNAGE.
   A.   Prohibited Signs. The following signs are prohibited in all districts:
      1.   Signs painted directly on an exterior wall, fascia, parapet, or
chimney of a building or on a fence.
      2.   Signs which move, or exhibit the illusion of movement. This category
includes pennants, banners (except those specifically allowed by Section
1201.04 (B)(4), streamers, and all other signs which flutter, undulate, swing,
rotate, oscillate or otherwise move by natural or artificial means.
      3.   Signs containing flashing or running lights giving the illusion of
movement, including time and temperature devices.
      4.   Roof signs.
      5.   Off-premises signs.
      6.   Signs which imitate traffic signs. Signs which use the words "stop",
"look", "danger", "go slow", "caution", or "warning", are deemed to be within
this category except where such words are part of the name of the business.
This category (6) does not include signs which are accessory to parking lots.
      7.   Portable or wheeled signs.
      8.   Signs placed on vehicles or trailers, parked and visible from any
public right- of-way, where the apparent purpose is to advertise a product,
business, or activity.
      9.   Motor vehicles whose sole apparent purpose is to advertise business.
Motor vehicles engaged in the cartage of goods or the transport of passengers
are exempt from this restriction.
      10.   Signs which contain matter which is untruthful or misleading.
      11.   Inflatable or lighter-than-air signs situated on, attached or
tethered to a premises, structure or vehicle. This category (11) does not
include seasonal holiday décor or civic/family announcements.
      12.   Pole signs.
      13.   Billboards or other signs displayed for pay or other compensation.
      14.   Advertising signs.
      15.   Attention-getting devices.
      16.   Home occupation signs.
      17.   Signs located within any public right-of-way, other than
governmental signs described in Section
1201.03( B)(4).
      18.   Any sign not expressly permitted by this Title.
 
   B.   Exempt Signs. The following signs are hereby designated as "exempt
signs" and, as such, are subject only to the regulations contained in this
Section
 1201.03 (B).
      1.   Signs used for safety purposes relative to the repair or maintenance
of streets, sidewalks, or utilities in a public right-of-way, provided such
signs shall not exceed two (2) square feet in area, unless a greater area is
mandated or recommended by state law or regulation.
      2.   Nameplates, as follows:
         a.   For one, two, or three-family residential uses, one nameplate per
zoning lot shall be exempt if it does not exceed one (1) square foot in area
and is placed not less than ten (10) feet from any lot line.
         b.   For multi-family residential uses having four or more dwelling
units and for any non-residential use, one nameplate per zoning lot shall be
exempt, not to exceed 10.5 square feet in area, provided that an attached
nameplate shall not project higher than the structure's first story or fifteen
(15) feet, whichever is less, and a detached nameplate shall not exceed four
(4) feet in height.
      3.   Address signs identifying the numeric address and/or street name of
a zoning lot, not to exceed two (2) square feet in area. The combined total
surface area of all address signs shall be no greater than six (6) square feet.
      4.   Signs and public notices erected or required by governmental bodies,
or authorized for a public purpose by any law, statute or ordinance. Such
public signs may be of any type, number, area, height, location, or
illumination as authorized by law, statute or ordinance.
      5.   Public information signs identifying public telephones, rest rooms
and similar facilities, not to exceed two (2) square feet. Advertising matter
is not permitted on such signs. This category (5) does not include parking or
driveway signs.
      6.   "No Parking", "Will be Towed", "Private Parking", parking control
signs, and fire lane signs, intended to prohibit or impose conditions upon
parking pursuant to the Oakwood Traffic Code or State Law not to exceed four
(4) square feet.
      7.   Flags, subject to Section 901.4 (Standards for the Placement of
Flagpoles). The combined total surface area of all flags, counting one (1) side
only, shall be no greater than (60) square feet unless approved via Special Use
permit. Unless displayed on a ground-mounted flagpole pursuant to Section
901.4, no single flag shall exceed thirty (30) square feet in area nor six (6)
feet in length at its longest dimension.
      8.   Memorial plaques and cornerstones not to exceed two (2) square feet
in area designed, intended, or used to preserve the memory of a person, place,
or event, including landmark plaques and historical plaques which must be
constructed of bronze or other incombustible materials and be permanently
affixed to the building or premises thereto. No memorial plaque or cornerstone
shall be higher than four (4) feet above grade, nor located less than six (6)
feet from any lot line.
      9.   Safety and security matter appearing on or adjacent to entry doors,
windows, or gates, including signs indicating "No Solicitors," the presence of
animals, and the presence of security cameras or alarm systems, not exceeding a
cumulative total of one half (½) square foot in area per door, window, or gate.
      10.   Matter appearing on gasoline pumps, newspaper vending boxes and
automatic teller machines and other vending machines as purchased or installed.
      11.   Matter appearing on or adjacent to entry doors including "Push",
"Pull", "Open" or "Closed" signs, not exceeding one and one half (1 ½) square
feet in area per establishment or one per entrance. Illumination of such signs
is prohibited.
      12.   Matter appearing on display windows or doors to retail or service
establishments denoting hours of operation, credit cards accepted, and similar
information, not exceeding a cumulative total of one (1) square foot in area
per establishment.
      13.   Temporary holiday and festival decorations, with the condition that
they do not act as advertisements.
      14.   Headstones and gravesite monuments, in the Cemetery (C) Zoning
District only.
   1201.04 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   A temporary sign is a sign which is intended to be displayed for a limited
time only, and/or which is constructed of fabric, paper, cardboard, or other
non-durable material(s). Such signs include real estate availability signs,
special events signs, holiday decorations, signs and banners announcing grand
opening events, political/campaign signs, and other temporary signs as
described herein. Temporary Signs may be permitted in Residential Districts
subject only to the provisions contained in Section  
1201.04 (A), below. Temporary Signs may be permitted in Non-Residential
Districts subject only to the provisions contained in Section
 1201.04( B), below.
   A.   Residential Districts. Temporary signs in residential districts, and
for residential uses in non-residential districts, may be installed as window
signs or lawn signs, pursuant to the following:
      1.   Window Signs. Temporary signs installed as window signs shall be no
greater than six (6) square feet in area. The combined total surface area of
all temporary window signs shall be no greater than twelve (12) square feet.
Window signs installed for more than forty five (45) days shall be deemed to be
permanent window signs rather than temporary.
      2.   Lawn Signs.
         a.   Size. Temporary signs installed as lawn signs shall be no greater
than six (6) square feet in area and no greater than four (4) feet in height.
The combined total surface area of all temporary lawn signs shall be no greater
than twelve (12) square feet.
         b.   Exceptions. If, due to the topography, existing foliage, or other
similar condition existing as to a particular property, conformance with the
size regulations set forth herein would impair the visibility of a temporary
lawn sign as observed from the street, then the Building Commissioner may grant
exceptions to the height and area requirements above, be increased by a factor
no greater than fifty percent (50%).
In determining whether to grant an exception under this section, the sole
standard to be used by the Building Commissioner is the visibility of the sign
and no sign shall exceed that height or area which is reasonably necessary to
render the sign visible when observed from the street.
   B.   Non-Residential Districts.
      1.   Availability Signs. Availability signs such as "For sale,"
"Vacancy," or "For rent" may be permitted to announce the current sale, rental,
or lease availability of the lot where the sign is displayed or to announce the
sale, rental or lease of one or more structures or a portion thereof, located
on the lot. Such signs may indicate the owner, realty agent, telephone numbers,
or "open house" information. Such signs:
         a.   Shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet in area.
         b.   Shall be located upon or within any building or premises, or
portion of building or premises, occupied or to be occupied by any single
business enterprise.
         c.   Shall only advertise the rental, lease, or sale of such building
or portion thereof.
          d.   Shall also meet or exceed the front yard setback established
within the zoning district, regardless of whether a building is present on the
lot.
      2.   Event Signs. Event signs may not exceed a maximum size of six (6)
square feet in area, or covering all portions of an existing permitted sign,
whichever is greater, and must be located on the premises of the event,
excluding any residential use, announcing a campaign, drive or event of a
civic, philanthropic, educational or religious organization.
      3.   Holiday Decorations. Holiday decorations displayed in connection
with civic, patriotic or religious holidays.
      4.   Grand Opening Signs. Grand opening signs or banners announce the
opening of a business on the premises located in a non-residential zoning
district. Such a sign may be displayed for not more than thirty (30) days from
the date on which the activity commences, and shall not exceed the requirements
applicable for an identification wall sign at the location. Grand opening signs
may be installed on the premises only to identify a business which is newly
established, is newly located on the premises, or has had a change of ownership
or management.
      5.   Temporary Window Signs.
         a.   Area of Temporary Signs. Except as otherwise provided above, one
(1) or more temporary window signs may be displayed on each window of the
premises, but the total area of all window signs in any one (1) window shall
not exceed ten percent (10%) of the area of that window.
         b.   Area of all Temporary and Permanent Signs. The combined area of
all temporary and permanent window signs in any one (1) window shall not exceed
twenty percent (20%) of the area of that window.
         c.   Time Limit. Temporary window signs in business zoning districts
shall be displayed no more than thirty (30) days after placement, after which
time they must either be removed or replaced.
   1201.05 SIGNS REQUIRING PERMITS.
   Except as otherwise regulated by
1201.03 , Prohibited and Exempt Signs, permits are required for the erection of
all permanent signs, including identification signs, directory signs, and
auxiliary entry signs as permitted by Section
1201.07 , Sign Regulations by District. Permits shall be applied for pursuant
to all the requirements of this section.
   A.   Sign Permits Required.
      1.   From and after the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance, no
person may erect, alter or relocate any of the signs listed in Section
1201.07,  Sign Regulations by District, except for Temporary Signs, without
first obtaining a zoning permit from the Building Commissioner, an electrical
permit from the Building Official (if required), and paying the required fee
(s).
      2.   Routine maintenance or changing parts of a sign shall not be
considered an alteration of a sign, provided that the maintenance or change of
parts does not alter the type of installation, surface area, height, or
otherwise make the sign non-conforming or enlarge an existing non-conformity.
      3.   Signs not listed in Section
1201.03 (B), Exempt Signs, Section
1201.04 , Temporary Signs, or Section
1201.07 , Sign Regulations by District, shall be considered prohibited.
   B.   Electrical Permit Required. In addition to complying with the
provisions of this Zoning Ordinance, all signs in which electrical wiring and
connections are to be used shall be regulated pursuant to the Oakwood Building
Code.
   C.   Permit Applications. Applications for sign permits shall be made upon
forms provided by the Building Commissioner, and must include the following:
       1.   Applicant and related party information: Name, address, telephone
number, and email address for the applicant, the sign owner, and the person,
firm, corporation, or other entity erecting the sign.
      2.   Location: The location of the building, structure, or parcel of
property to which, or upon which, the sign is to be attached or erected.
      3.    Plat of Survey: A Plat of Survey showing the position of the sign
on the lot in relation to nearby buildings, structures, and street grade.
      4.   Structural drawings: Plans and specifications showing method(s) of
construction, location, and support.
      5.   Elevation drawings: An elevation drawing showing sign faces, exposed
surfaces, and proposed message accurately represented in scale as to area,
size, proportion, and color.
      6.   Removal upon abandonment: A statement signed by the sign owner(s)
agreeing to remove the sign at the owner(s)'s expense in the event the sign is
not properly maintained or is abandoned. For purposes of this Title, a sign
shall be deemed to be abandoned if it is located on property which becomes
vacant, or if it pertains to a use or activity no longer conducted on the
premises where such sign is located, or if other factual circumstances exist
that would cause a reasonable person to conclude that the sign has been
abandoned.
   D.   Issuance of Permits. Permit applications shall be reviewed, and permits
shall be issued, as provided in Section
1009  of the Zoning Ordinance. If additional zoning approvals are necessary
before a permit can be issued, the following shall apply:
      1.   If a Special Use Permit is needed, the applicant shall submit an
application for such special use permit as provided in Section
1004  of the Zoning Ordinance. No further action on the sign permit shall be
taken unless and until such special use permit is approved by the Planning
Commission or City Council, as appropriate.
      2.   If a Conditional Use Permit is needed, the applicant shall submit an
application for such permit as provided in Section
1005  of the Zoning Ordinance. No further action on the sign permit shall be
taken unless and until such Conditional Use Permit is approved by the City
Manager or Board of Zoning Appeals, as appropriate.
      3.   If a Variance is needed, the applicant shall submit an application
for such variance as provided in Section
1006  of the Zoning Ordinance. No further action on the sign permit shall be
taken unless and until such variance is approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals
or Planning Commission, as appropriate.
   E.   Validity of Permit. If the work authorized under a sign permit has not
been completed within six (6) months after the date of issuance, the permit
shall become null and void.
   F.   Permit Fee. A fee shall be paid with each application for a sign permit
in accordance with the current fee schedule maintained by the City Manager. If
an electrical permit is required, an additional fee shall be paid for the cost
of the electrical permit according to the established fee schedule maintained
by the City Manager.
   G.   Revocation. All rights and privileges acquired under the provisions of
this Zoning Ordinance are mere licenses, revocable at any time by the authority
which granted the permit. If the sign permit was granted pursuant to a Special
Use Permit, then the Planning Commission or City Council, as appropriate, may
revoke such permit for just cause. If the sign permit was granted pursuant to a
Conditional Use Permit, then the City Manager or Board of Zoning Appeals, as
appropriate, may revoke such permit for just cause. If the sign permit was
granted pursuant to a Variance, then the Planning Commission or Board of Zoning
Appeals, as appropriate, may revoke such permit for just cause. If just cause
for revocation is shown for any other sign permit, the sign permit may be
revoked by the Building Commissioner.
   H.   Failure to Obtain Permit. Any person who erects, alters or moves a
permanent sign after the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance without
obtaining a permit as required by Section
1201.05 (A), Sign Permits Required, shall be subject to enforcement actions,
penalties, and/or remedies as provided by Section
1010  of the Zoning Ordinance.
   1201.06 GENERAL SIGN REGULATIONS.
   A.   Limitations on Location of Signs. All permanent and temporary signs
requiring a permit shall be located on the premises they are intended to serve.
Such signs shall be located pursuant to the following:
      1.   No sign shall be located within or shall obstruct the public right-
of-way. However, as a limited exception to this general rule, awning signs and
canopy signs may extend over public sidewalks, provided that they afford at
least eight and one half (8 ½) feet of unobstructed height clearance above the
sidewalk, do not interfere with pedestrian traffic in any manner, and are
lawful in all other respects.
      2.   No sign shall be erected or placed so as to prevent free ingress and
egress from any door, window, fire escape, or other required access way, nor
shall such sign be attached to any standpipe or fire escape.
      3.   No sign shall be erected or placed so as to cover or extend across
the architectural elements of the building upon which it is located. Such
elements include building cornices, sills, windows, doors, portals, projections
or recesses greater than six (6) inches in depth; or piers, pilasters, columns,
arches, and fascia.
      4.   No sign shall project over, occupy, or obstruct any window surface
required for light or ventilation by any applicable ordinance or code.
   B.   Calculating Sign Area. Sign area is defined as the area within any
perimeter enclosing the limits of lettering, emblems, or other figures on a
sign, together with any material or color forming an integral part of the
display or used to differentiate the sign from the background on which it is
placed. Structural members bearing no sign copy shall not be included in its
surface area. In the case of a multifaced sign, other than a temporary sign
installed as a lawn sign, all sides shall be included in the calculation of
surface area. In the case of a temporary sign installed as a lawn sign, only
one face shall be included in such calculation regardless of whether the sign
is printed on one or both sides.
   C.   Changeable Copy. Changeable copy may be installed pursuant to all the
provisions and restrictions set forth below.
      1.   As Part of a Directory Sign. A directory sign may contain changeable
copy, if located within the signable area of the building wall and within six
(6) feet of the building entrance door. Letters within the sign shall be no
more than four (4) inches in height.
      2.   As Part of a Place of Worship Identification Sign. Changeable copy
may be permitted as part of a place of worship identification sign whether
installed as a monument or wall sign. Letters within the sign shall be no more
than four (4) inches in height.
      3.   As Part of an Educational Institution Identification Sign.
Changeable copy may be permitted as part of an educational institution
identification sign whether installed as a monument or wall sign. Letters
within the sign shall be no more than four (4) inches in height.
      4.   As Part of a Governmental Facility Identification Sign. Changeable
copy may be permitted as part of a governmental facility identification sign
whether installed as a monument or wall sign. Letters within the sign shall be
no more than four (4) inches in height.
   D.   Illumination of Signs.
      1.   External Illumination of Signs.
         a.   Illuminated signs shall be limited to the use of white or
daylight spectrum bulbs in any of the following configurations: external
illumination using enclosed gooseneck-type lamps or floodlight fixtures; wash
lighting; or shadow lighting. The surface of the sign shall be opaque and shall
not emit light. Internal illumination is prohibited except as may be permitted
under the Oakwood Business District Design Guidelines set forth in Section
1016  of the Zoning Ordinance.
         b.   Whenever external illumination is used for a sign, the source of
light shall be located, shielded and directed in such a manner that the light
does not shine or cause glare onto any surrounding public street or private
residence.
         c.   No receptacle or device housing a permitted light source for a
sign shall protrude more than eighteen (18) inches from the face of the sign or
building to which it is attached, unless such light source is ground mounted,
locked in place, and cannot be redirected.
         d.   Illumination that flashes, blinks, operates intermittently, or
creates the appearance of movement is prohibited.
      2.   Brightness Limitations. In no case shall the lighting intensity of
any sign, whether resulting from internal or external illumination, exceed
seventy-five (75) foot candles when measured with a standard light meter
perpendicular to the face of the sign at a distance equal to the narrowest
dimension of the sign..
      3.   Hours of Illumination. For non-residential uses located within
residential zoning districts, no sign shall be illuminated between the hours of
11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., unless and to the extent that the building displaying
the sign is open for business during those hours. The Building Commissioner,
upon the recommendation or concurrence of the Safety Director, is authorized to
grant an exemption from the provisions of this section to any activity in which
illumination of signs during the hours otherwise proscribed is necessary or
desirable for the security and safety of the activity or for property in the
custody of the activity.
      4.   Backlit Canopies and Awnings. Backlit canopies or awnings are
prohibited.
      5.   Voltage Plate. All signs in which electrical wiring and connections
are to be used shall have affixed thereon a plate showing the voltage of the
electrical apparatus used in connection with the sign. This voltage plate shall
face away from public view and right-of-way.
   E.   General Construction and Maintenance Requirements.
      1.   Construction. All lawn signs shall be designed and constructed to
withstand a wind pressure of not less than thirty (30) pounds per square foot
of net surface area and to receive dead loads as required in the Oakwood
Building Code.
      2.   (Deleted.)
      3.   Sharp Projections Restricted. All signs, canopies and awnings which
are constructed on, over, or within five (5) feet of a public right-of-way or
other pedestrian sidewalk shall have no nails, tacks, or wires or other
hazardous projections protruding therefrom.
      4.   Use of Glass. Any glass forming a part of any sign shall be safety
glass. If any single piece or pane of glass exceeds three (3) square feet, such
piece or pane shall be wired glass.
       5.   Maintenance. All signs, canopies and awnings shall be kept and
maintained in a safe, clean and orderly condition and appearance, and shall be
repainted or otherwise maintained periodically by the owner to prevent
corrosion or deterioration caused by weather, age or any other conditions, and
to keep the same in a safe, clean, neat and orderly condition and appearance.
   1201.07 SIGN REGULATIONS BY DISTRICT.
   A.   Sign Regulations in Residential Districts.
      1.   Purpose. Permitted signs in the residential zoning districts are
intended to provide legible information regarding the location of residences,
businesses, and institutions located within the district, their availability
for purchase or lease, to inform the public as to the ownership and access
limitations of property, and to describe the activities of places of worship,
educational institutions, and governmental facilities.
      2.   Applicability to Zoning Districts. The following regulations pertain
to signs located in the R1, R2, R3, R4, R5, R6, and R7 Zoning Districts.
      3.   Primary Signs. Primary signs shall be permitted in residential
zoning districts pursuant to the following:
         a.   Permitted. The following primary signs are permitted by right,
pursuant to this Title.
            (1)   Permanent signs serving residential uses, installed as a
window or lawn sign.
               (a)   Permanent signs serving residential uses, when installed
as a window sign, shall be no greater than one (1) square foot in area.
               (b)   Permanent signs serving residential uses, when installed
as a lawn sign, shall be no greater than one and one half (1 ½) square foot in
area and no greater than four (4) feet in height. Such signs shall be located a
minimum of eight (8) feet from the nearest edge of the sidewalk (or public
right-of-way, if there is no sidewalk), unless the front yard measured from the
building to the edge of the sidewalk (or public right-of-way, if there is no
sidewalk) is less than eight (8) feet in which case such signs shall be located
within five (5) feet of the front of the building, and such signs shall be
positioned within three (3) feet in front of shrubbery of at least equal height
as the sign. No more than two (2) permanent lawn signs are permitted on a
property.
            (2)   Directory signs, used to identify non-residential uses and
installed as a wall sign. Such signs shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet
in sign face area, and shall be installed pursuant to Section
 1201.08 (A). Regulations Affecting Wall Signs.
            (3)   Identification signs, used to identify non-residential uses
and installed as a monument sign. Such signs shall not exceed sixteen (16)
square feet in sign face area, and shall be installed pursuant to Section
1201.08 (B), Regulations Affecting Monument Signs.
      4.   Temporary Signs. Temporary Signs shall be permitted pursuant to
Section
1201.04 (A), Residential Districts.
      5.   Signs Approved as Part of a Planned Development. Signs which vary
from the regulations of this Title may be approved as part of a Planned
Development or a Special Use Master Plan.
 
   B.   Sign Regulations In Business Districts.
      1.   Purpose. Permitted signs in the business zoning districts are
intended to provide legible information regarding the location of businesses,
residences, and institutions located within the district, their availability
for purchase or lease, to inform the public as to the ownership and access
limitations of property, and to describe the activities of businesses and
institutions.
      2.   Applicability to Zoning Districts. The following regulations pertain
to signs located in the CB and NB Zoning Districts.
      3.   Primary Signs. Primary signs shall be permitted in business zoning
districts pursuant to the following:
         a.   Permitted, residential uses. The following primary signs are
permitted by right, pursuant to this Title, for residential uses in the
business zoning districts.
            (1)   Permanent signs serving residential uses, installed as a
window or lawn sign.
               (a)   Permanent signs serving residential uses, when installed
as a window sign, shall be no greater than one (1) square foot in area.
               (b)   Permanent signs serving residential uses, when installed
as a lawn sign, shall be no greater than one and one half (1 ½) square foot in
area and no greater than four (4) feet in height. Such signs shall be located a
minimum of eight (8) feet from the nearest edge of the sidewalk (or public
right-of-way, if there is no sidewalk), unless the front yard measured from the
building to the edge of the sidewalk (or public right-of-way, if there is no
sidewalk) is less than eight (8) feet in which case such signs shall be located
within five (5) feet of the front of the building, and such signs shall be
positioned within three (3) feet in front of shrubbery of at least equal height
as the sign. No more than two (2) permanent lawn signs are permitted on a
property.
         b.   Permitted, non-residential uses. Every business establishment
shall be permitted one (1) of the following primary sign types for each public
right-of-way upon which the property fronts:
            (1)   Identification signs, installed as a wall, window, canopy,
awning, or monument sign.
               (a)   Wall signs are pursuant to Section
1201.08 (A), Regulations Affecting Wall Signs.
               (b)   Window signs are pursuant to Section
1201.08( C), Regulations Affecting Window Signs.
               (c)   Canopy or awning signs are pursuant to Section 1201.08(D),
Regulations Affecting Canopy and Awning Signs.
               (d)   Monument signs pursuant to Section
1201.08 (D) Regulations Affecting Monument Signs.
            (2)   Directory signs may be used as primary signs to identify
upper story business and institutional uses. Such signs shall be installed as a
wall sign, not to exceed nine (9) square feet, and located within six (6) feet
of the doorway serving such uses.
      4.   Secondary Signs, non-residential uses only. Secondary Signs are not
applicable to residential uses. Every business establishment shall be permitted
one (1) of the following as a Secondary Sign for each public right- of-way upon
which the property fronts:
          a.   Permitted
            (1)   Window signs, not to exceed six (6) square feet in area or
fifteen percent (15%) of the window area, whichever is smaller, and pursuant to
1201.08( C), Regulations Affecting Window Signs.
            (2)   Canopy or awning signs pursuant to Section
1201.08( D) Regulations Affecting Canopy and Awning Signs.
            (3)   Projecting signs by special use permit only, pursuant to
Section
1201.08(E ), Regulations Affecting Projecting Signs.
      5.   Auxiliary Entry Signs, non-residential uses only. Auxiliary Entry
Signs are not applicable to residential uses. Every business establishment
shall be permitted one (1) auxiliary entry sign, installed as a wall sign, no
wider than the width of the customer entrance, and not to exceed two (2) feet
in height.
      6.   Parking Control Signs, non-residential uses only. Parking Control
Signs are not applicable to residential uses. Parking Control Signs for every
business establishment shall be permitted pursuant to the following:
         a.   Only one (1) parking control sign is permitted per entry or exit
drive serving a parking lot.
         b.   Such signs shall not exceed a surface area of four (4) square
feet and a height of five and one half (5 ½) feet. One sign is required for
each ADA parking spot.
         c.   Such signs shall not contain a business name or logo.
      7.   Additional Requirements.
         a.   Permitted non-residential signs shall not be located within fifty
(50) feet of any principal residential structure located in a residential
zoning district.
         b.   Monument signs in a business district that are located within
twenty five (25) feet of a street intersection shall not exceed three (3) feet
in height.
         c.   Permitted non-residential signs shall comply with the Oakwood
Business District Design Guidelines set forth in Section
1016  of the Zoning Ordinance.
      8.   Temporary Signs. Temporary Signs for all residential uses shall be
permitted pursuant to Section
1201.04 (A), Residential Districts. Temporary Signs for all non-residential
uses shall be permitted pursuant to Section
1201.04 (B), Non-Residential Districts.
      9.   Signs Approved as Part of a Planned Unit Development. Signs which
vary from the regulations of this Title may be approved as part of a Planned
Development or Special Use Master Plan.
   C.   Sign Regulations in the Cemetery District.
      1.   Purpose. Permitted signs in the Cemetery District are intended to
provide legible information regarding the administration and location of
cemetery institutions within the district, the availability of plots for
purchase or lease, to inform the public as to the ownership and access
limitations of cemetery property, and to describe the activities of cemetery
institutions.
      2.   Applicability to Zoning Districts. The following regulations pertain
to signs located in the C Zoning District.
      3.   Primary Signs. Primary signs shall be permitted in the cemetery
zoning district pursuant to the following:
         a.   Permitted. The following primary signs are permitted by right,
pursuant to this Title.
            (1)   One (1) identification sign, installed as a monument sign.
Such signs shall not exceed twenty four (24) square feet in sign face area, and
shall be installed pursuant to Section
1201.08( B), Regulations Affecting Monument Signs.
            (2)   One (1) directory sign, installed as a monument sign. Such
sign shall not exceed twenty five (25) square feet in sign face area, and shall
be installed pursuant to Section
1201.08 (B), Regulations Affecting Monument Signs.
      4.   Temporary Signs. Temporary Signs shall be permitted pursuant to
Section
1201.04 .B, Non-Residential Districts.
      5.   Parking Control Signs. Parking Control Signs shall be permitted
pursuant to the following:
         a.   Only one (1) parking control sign is permitted per entry or exit
drive serving a parking lot.
         b.   Such signs shall not exceed a surface area of four (4) square
feet and a height of five and one half (5 ½) feet. One sign is required for
each ADA parking spot.
         c.   Such signs shall not contain a business name or logo.
   
   D.   Sign Regulations in the Transitional Use District.
      1.   Purpose. Permitted signs in the Transitional Use zoning district are
intended to provide legible information regarding the location of businesses
and institutions located within the district, their availability for purchase
or lease, to inform the public as to the ownership and access limitations of
property, and to describe the activities of businesses and institutions.
      2.   Applicability to Zoning Districts. The following regulations pertain
to signs located in the Transitional Use Zoning District.
      3.   Primary Signs. Primary signs shall be permitted in the transitional
use zoning district pursuant to the following:
         a.   Permitted. The following primary signs are permitted by right,
pursuant to this Title.
            (1)   Wall signs, installed pursuant to Section
 1201.08 (A), Regulations Affecting Wall Signs.
            (2)   Awning signs, installed pursuant to Section
1201.08( D), Regulations Affecting Canopy and Awning Signs.
The cumulative sign face area of all permitted signs shall not exceed two (2)
times the shortest frontage on zoning lots fronting more than one (1) street.
      4.   Parking Control Signs. Parking Control Signs shall be permitted
pursuant to the following:
         a.   Only one (1) parking control sign is permitted per entry or exit
drive serving a parking lot.
         b.   Such signs shall not exceed a surface area of four (4) square
feet and a height of five and one half (5 ½) feet. One sign is required for
each ADA parking spot.
         c.   Such signs shall not contain a business name or logo.
      5.   Temporary Signs. Temporary signs shall be permitted, pursuant to
Section
1201.04(B ), Non-Residential Districts.
   1201.08 REGULATIONS BY SIGN TYPE.
   A.   Regulations Affecting Wall Signs.
      1.   Purpose. The purpose of a wall sign is for identification.
      2.   Size.
         a.   Residential Districts. In residential zoning districts, wall
signs may be permitted only for non-residential uses and shall be limited to
sixteen (16) square feet of signage.
         b.   Business Districts. In business zoning districts, the maximum
area of wall signs along the frontage of a single business enterprise shall be
equal to one (1) square foot of signage for each one (1) lineal foot of
building frontage, but shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet nor any
greater limitation established in this Title. Corner lots may be permitted up
to two (2) signs, if each is facing a street. Each frontage shall be permitted
one (1) square foot of signage for each one (1) lineal foot of building
frontage, up to a maximum of thirty-two (32) square feet.
      3.   Location. Permitted wall signs shall be located and designed subject
to the following criteria:
         a.   Location on Building Façade. A wall sign cannot be located above
the cornice line or second floor window line of a building, whichever is lower.
         b.   Street Frontage Orientation. All wall signs shall be oriented to
face the street by being mounted on the building facade generally parallel or
perpendicular to the street. Where a property is located on a corner lot, signs
may be provided on both streets.
         c.   Dual Street Frontage Orientation. If a building on a corner lot
has a façade which is oriented to the corner, in addition to façades facing
streets, a wall sign may be placed on two (2) of the three (3) façades as
illustrated below:
 
[Image]
         d.   Location for "Single Residential" or "Connected Residential"
Business Uses. For business uses classified as "single residential" or
"connected residential" pursuant to the Business District Design Guidelines
referenced in Section
1016 , the following shall apply:
            (1)   Wall signs shall be mounted on the building on the opening
side of the door.
            (2)   The sign shall be centered on a point that is five (5) feet
above the stoop, or finished grade if there is no stoop.
            (3)   The sign shall not exceed one foot six inches (1' 6") in
height, with proportions that shall not exceed five (5) units of measurement
horizontally for every one (1) unit of measurement vertically.
         e.   Location for Other Business Uses. For business uses classified as
"single small commercial," "connected small commercial," and "large commercial"
pursuant to the Business District Design Guidelines referenced in Section
1016 , the following shall apply:
            (1)   Wall signs shall be oriented horizontally, and shall be
mounted above door and/or windows along the storefront in the transom position.
             (2)   Proportions of the sign shall not exceed five (5) units of
measurement horizontally for every one (1) unit of measurement vertically.
      4.   Projection. A wall sign shall project no further than eighteen (18)
inches from the wall on which it is mounted.
   
   B.   Regulations Affecting Monument Signs.
      1.   Purpose. The purpose of a monument sign is identification from a
sign on the ground.
      2.   Signable Area.
         a.   A monument sign may display not more than two (2) signable areas,
located on opposite faces of the sign. Corner lots shall have the option to
arrange sign faces in an "L" or 90-degree configuration for corner-located
monument signs.
         b.   The maximum permissible area of each single sign face shall not
exceed twenty-four (24) square feet in business zoning districts and ten and
one-half (10.5) square feet in residential zoning districts.
      3.   Height. Monument signs shall not exceed five (5) feet in height.
Such height includes one (1) foot to be used for the base of the sign.
      4.   Location.
         a.   Monument signs shall be oriented perpendicular to the street, and
shall be located no closer than eight (8) feet from the front property line, no
closer than eight (8) feet to the principal structure, and no closer than eight
(8) feet to the driveway.
         b.   The monument sign shall be located outside the visibility
triangle defined in Section
301 , Terms Defined, of this Zoning Ordinance.
         c.   In determining the appropriate location of a monument sign along
the property frontage, a minimum separation of thirty (30) feet from other
monument signs shall be maintained.
      5.   Number. Notwithstanding the number limitations set forth under the
applicable sign regulations for each zoning district, there shall be not more
than one (1) monument sign per building where more than one business occupies
the same building.
      6.   Landscaping. The base of monument signs shall be located in and
softened with mostly evergreen landscaping.
      7.   Special Conditions Affecting Places of Worship, Educational
Institutions, and Governmental Facilities. Monument signs identifying places of
worship, educational institutions, and governmental facilities may incorporate
changeable copy pursuant to applicable provisions of this Title.
   C.   Regulations Affecting Window Signs.
      1.   Window Signs as a Primary Sign.
         a.   Upper Story Businesses. Businesses whose only windows are above
the first story of a building may display one (1) permanent window sign in one
(1) window. The lettering of such sign shall not exceed four (4) inches in
height.
         b.   Ground Floor Businesses. A ground-floor business may display, as
its primary sign, one (1) permanent window sign per business, either with or
without a separate entry door. Such signs shall be limited in area to one (1)
square foot for each lineal foot of building frontage, not to exceed thirty-two
(32) square feet or any greater limitation of this Title.
      2.   Window Signs as a Secondary Sign. Ground floor businesses may also
display a window sign as a secondary signs. The placement and design of window
signs shall, in addition to all other requirements of this Title, be subject to
the following:
         a.   Location of Permanent Window Signs. A permanent window sign must
be located on the window and be contained totally within a single window. A
sign will also be considered as a window sign if it is located within six (6)
feet inside the window.
         b.   Total Area of Permanent Window Signs. Permanent window signs
cannot exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the area of the window through which the
sign may be seen or six (6) square feet, whichever is less.
         c.   Total Area of Temporary Window Signs. A person may display one
(1) or more temporary window signs on each window of the premises, but the
total area of all window signs in any one (1) window shall not exceed ten
percent (10%) of the area of that window. Such temporary window signs shall be
displayed for no longer than thirty (30) days, pursuant to Section
 1201.04 .B.6, Temporary Window Signs.
         d.   Total Area of All Window Signs. The combined total area of
Temporary and Permanent Window Signs shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of
the area of the window through which such signs may be seen.
         e.   Computation of Coverage. Window panels separated only by mullions
shall be considered as one (1) continuous windowpane in the computation of
window surface area.
         f.   Transparency of Sign. Permanent window signs shall be "see-
through" with a transparent background.
         g.   Window Displays. Window displays shall be limited to forty
percent (40%) of the window area. No window display located within six (6) feet
of the window may be maintained which has the effect of circumventing the
intent of this Section
1201.08 .C.2, Window Signs as a Secondary Sign. If material purporting to be a
window display has such effect, it shall be deemed to be a temporary window
sign and not a window display.
   D.   Regulations Affecting Canopy and Awning Signs.
      1.   Relationship to Wall Signs. Canopies and awnings may constitute an
activity's primary sign unless an activity displays an identification sign
installed as a monument, wall, or window sign. However, any activity located in
a business zoning district may display edge lettering on a canopy or awning as
a secondary sign in accordance with the provisions of this section.
      2.   Coverage Limitations. Canopy and awning signs may be placed on the
front hanging edge of a canopy or awning only, with lettering of nine (9)
inches or less in height.+0
      3.   Location Requirements.
         a.   No portion of a canopy or awning shall be less than eight and
one- half (8 1/2) feet above the level of the sidewalk or other public
thoroughfare over which it projects.
         b.   No portion of a canopy or awning may extend more than five (5)
feet from the building facade.
         c.   No portion of a canopy or awning may be located within the public
right-of-way, other than sidewalk overhangs permitted under Section
 1201.06. A.1.
   E.   Regulations Affecting Projecting Signs.
      1.   Special Use Permit Required. A projecting sign may only be
authorized by special use permit pursuant to Section
1004 , and may be used only as a secondary sign. No special use permit shall be
approved unless the proposed projecting sign meets all requirements of this
section. Any other use of a projecting sign is prohibited.
      2.   Cannot Project Above Cornice. No element of a projecting sign,
including any support structure or cables, shall extend above the cornice line
of the building to which it is attached.
       3.   Maximum Projection of Projecting Signs. Projecting signs shall
extend no more than three (3) feet from the facade of the building.
      4.   Maximum Area of Projecting Signs.   The maximum area of projecting
signs shall be no more than six (6) square feet.
   1201.09 NON-CONFORMING AND UNSAFE SIGNS AND NUISANCES.
   A.   Non-Conforming Signs Erected With a Permit Are Deemed Conforming. All
signs which were installed with a permit prior to the effective date of this
Zoning Ordinance shall be deemed conforming with the requirements of this
Zoning Ordinance until they become nuisances or unsafe signs as described in
subsections E and F below.
   B.   Special Regulations Regarding Pole Signs. Pole signs in existence on
the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance may continue to be displayed for a
period of ten (10) years from the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance, or
until the sign is damaged or destroyed in excess of twenty percent (20%) of its
replacement value.
   C.   Removal of Signs Erected Without a Permit. Any sign erected without a
permit shall be removed within forty-eight (48) hours of receipt of a notice of
violation from the Building Commissioner. If such sign is not removed within
such forty-eight (48) hour period, the Building Commissioner is authorized to
cause the sign to be removed. Any expense incident thereto shall be paid by the
owner, agent or person having the beneficial use of the building, structure or
premises on which the sign is found.
   
   D.   Maintenance of Signs Deemed Conforming. Normal maintenance of signs
subject to this section, including necessary nonstructural repairs and
incidental alterations which do not extend or intensify the non-conforming
features of the sign, is permitted. However, no structural alterations,
enlargement or extensions shall be made in a sign subject to this Section
unless the alteration will result in eliminating the nonconforming features of
the sign. If a sign subject to this Section is damaged or destroyed by any
means to an extent equal to or exceeding sixty percent (60%) of its replacement
value at that time, the sign may not be rebuilt or used thereafter unless it
conforms to all of the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance.
   E.   Signs Deemed Nuisances. Any sign, retractable canopy or awning, whether
existing on or erected after the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance, which
advertises a business no longer being conducted or a product no longer being
sold in or from the premises to which the sign relates, is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance and such sign shall be taken down and removed by the
owner, agent or person having the beneficial use of the building, structure or
premises upon which such sign is found. Removal shall be effected within thirty
(30) days after written notice from the Building Commissioner. If such a sign
is not removed after such thirty (30) day period, the Building Commissioner is
authorized to cause the sign to be removed forthwith. Any expense incident
thereto shall be paid by the owner, agent or person having the beneficial use
of the building, structure or premises on which such sign is found.
   F.   Temporary Signs Deemed Nuisances. Any temporary sign, whether existing
on or placed after the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance, which has
become neglected, dilapidated, unsightly, or in disrepair, is hereby declared
to be a public nuisance and such sign shall be replaced or removed by the
owner, agent or person having the beneficial use of the building, structure or
premises upon which such sign is found. Replacement or removal shall be
effected within ten (10) days after written notice from the Building
Commissioner. If such a sign is not removed after such ten (10) day period, the
Building Commissioner is authorized to cause the sign to be removed forthwith.
Any expense incident thereto shall be paid by the owner, agent or person having
the beneficial use of the building, structure or premises on which such sign is
found.
   G.   Unsafe Signs. If the Building Commissioner or designee finds that any
sign, retractable canopy or awning is unsafe or insecure, or is a menace to the
public, he or she shall give written notice to the person displaying such sign.
Correction of the condition shall be effected within ten (10) days after
receipt of the notice. If such condition is not corrected after such ten (10)
day period, the Building Commissioner is authorized to cause the sign to be
removed forthwith at the expense of the person displaying the sign.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the Building Commissioner is
authorized to cause any sign, retractable canopy or awning to be removed
summarily and without notice whenever he or she finds that such a sign, canopy
or awning is an immediate peril to persons or property.
   H.   Other Remedies. The remedies set forth in this section are not
exclusive, and are available in addition to any other remedy provided by law.
 
   1201.10 CONFLICTS AND SEVERABILITY.
   A.   Conflict of Laws. In the event of any conflict between the provisions
of this Chapter and other provisions of the Zoning Ordinance, including but not
limited to
Title 13 , Non-Conforming Lots, Structures and Uses, the stricter provision
shall control.
   B.   Severability. In the event that any provision of this Chapter is found
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, for
any reason, such provision shall be individually severable and shall not be
construed as a basis to invalidate either the remainder of this Title or the
Zoning Ordinance as a whole.
LEGISLATIVE HISTORY: Amended Ord. 4999, passed 6/3/2024; Repealed Ord. 4884,
passed 5/6/19; Amended Ord. 4657, passed 10/06/08.
 
TITLE 13. NON-CONFORMING LOTS, STRUCTURES AND USES
Sec. 1300  Purpose
The purpose of this Title is to provide for the regulation and treatment of
buildings, structures, lots and land uses considered nonconforming under the
provisions of this Ordinance and specify those circumstances and conditions
under which nonconforming structures shall be repaired, enlarged, moved,
restored or terminated.
Sec. 1301 Authority to Continue Nonconforming Buildings, Structures, and Uses
Any nonconforming building, structure, or use which existed lawfully at the
time of the adoption of this Ordinance, and which remains nonconforming, and
any such building, structure, or use which shall become nonconforming upon the
adoption of this Ordinance, or of any subsequent amendments thereto, may be
continued subject to the regulations which follow.
Sec. 1302 Nonconforming Lots of Record
   A.   No new use shall be established on a lot recorded after the effective
date of this Ordinance which is of less area or less width than prescribed
hereinafter for such use in the zoning district in which it is to be located.
   B.   The following exceptions apply to the general rule set forth in
subsection A:
      1.   An undersized lot of record that previously met lot size
requirements under this Ordinance, but which has been made nonconforming in
size by adoption of this Ordinance may be used as a buildable lot, as long as,
all zoning requirements (other than lot size) are met. This exception shall not
apply, however, if the lot is subject to subparagraph 2 below; and to prove
that subparagraph 2 does not apply the lot owner must submit a real estate
title search, by a person or entity satisfactory to the City Attorney.
      2.   Where two or more contiguous recorded lots, substandard as to lot
size, are in common ownership constitute a "zoning lot" meeting the lot size
requirements as combined, such lots or portions thereof are considered joined
for the purpose of meeting the minimum lot size requirements of this Ordinance.
Such contiguous lots in common ownership may be re-platted to conform to this
Ordinance. Any division of a zoning lot (whether or not previously platted as
such) shall be deemed to be a subdivision under said subdivision regulations.
This rule is subject to the exception set forth below in subparagraph 3.
      3.   Provided, however, that an undersized lot of record may be used for
a single family residence and need not be joined as part of a full sized
"zoning lot" under subparagraph 2 above, even though contiguous with another
lot in common ownership, if a majority of the single family residences situated
on the same side of the street in the same block or, in the event there are no
blocks in that area, on the same side of the street and within four hundred
(400) feet of each side of the borders of such lot of record (and within the
same zoning district) are located upon zoning lots no larger than such
undersized lot of record. Improvements on the lot, in all respects, shall meet
the requirements of this Ordinance.
    C.   Relationship to Zoning Map Amendments
Whenever the boundaries of a zoning district shall be changed so as to transfer
an area from one zoning district to another, the foregoing provisions shall
also apply to any lots made nonconforming by such change in zoning district.
Sec. 1303 Continuance of Nonconforming Buildings Structures and Uses
   1303.1 Generally
      A.   Any nonconforming building, structure, or use which existed lawfully
at the time of the adoption of this Ordinance and which remains nonconforming
and any building, structure, or use which shall become nonconforming upon the
adoption of this Ordinance, or of any subsequent amendment thereto, may be
continued indefinitely subject to the regulations which follow.
      B.   For the purpose of this Section a building or structure lawfully
constructed or established on the effective date of this Ordinance shall be
deemed to include any building or structure for which a building permit has
been lawfully issued, and on which construction has begun within the required
period of time allowed by the unexpired building permit then in effect.
   1303.2 Nonconforming Buildings and Structures - Repairs, Alterations,
Enlargements and Discontinuance
      A.   Ordinary Repairs
         1.   Building or structure designed or intended for a use not
permitted within the district. Repairs and alterations may be made to a
nonconforming building or structure, provided that no structural alterations
which increase the bulk of the building or structure shall be made, all or
substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use not permitted in
the district in which it is located, except those required by law or except to
make the building or structure conform to the regulations of the district in
which it is located. For the purpose of this section, repairs include the
replacement of storage tanks where the safety of operation of the installation
requires such replacement, and other replacements of storage tanks where the
safety of operation of the installation requires such replacement, and other
replacements of, or substitutions for, machinery or equipment not involving
structural alterations to the building or structure, except as hereinabove
provided.
         2.   Building or structure designed or intended for a permitted use.
Repairs, alterations and structural changes may be made to a nonconforming
building or structure, all or substantially all of which is designed or
intended for a use permitted in the district in which it is located.
      B.   Additions and enlargements
         1.   A principal building or structure which is designed or intended
for a use permitted within the district and is nonconforming as to yard, height
or area regulations may be expanded or enlarged, provided such expansion
conforms to all of the regulations of the district in which it is located.
Except, however, where an expansion or addition to the rear of a principal
single family residential structure is proposed, regardless of any existing
nonconforming front, side or corner side yard, the structure may be expanded to
follow the existing building line within a side or corner side yard. Any
improvement shall meet the minimum required rear yard. Where the existing
exterior building wall results in an uneven or irregular setback distance, the
average depth of the established side or corner side yard shall apply.
Permitted obstructions in required yards (as defined in Section 402.2) shall
not be included in the calculation of the average depth of the side or corner
side yard.
 
[Image]
         2.   A nonconforming building or structure which is nonconforming as
to bulk, all or substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use
not permitted in the district in which it is located, shall not be added to or
enlarged in any manner unless such additions or enlargements thereto are made
to conform to all of the regulations of the district in which it is located,
and unless such nonconforming building or structure, including all additions
and enlargements thereto, must conform to the following:
            a.   Applicable regulations concerning the amount of lot area
provided per dwelling unit.
            b.   The allowable floor area ratio.
            c.   The allowable gross floor area per establishment.
      C.   Relocation of building or structure
No building or structure shall be moved in whole or in part to any other
location on the same or any other lot unless every portion of such building or
structure which is moved, and the use thereof, is made to conform to all the
regulations of the district in which it is to be located.
 
      D.   Reconstruction or restoration of nonconforming structures or uses
Any nonconforming structure and any structure designed or intended for a
nonconforming use may be restored or reconstructed in whole or in part without
being required to eliminate the nonconformity, as long as:
         1.   The size of the structure is not enlarged;
         2.   The location of the structure is not changed; or, if changed, any
nonconformity as to the location is not increased;
         3.   If the need for restoration or reconstruction was caused by a
casualty loss or act of God, the restoration or reconstruction is commenced
under a duly issued building permit within nine months after the occurrence of
such loss or act of God; and
         4.   If the restoration or reconstruction is diligently prosecuted to
completion so as to finish the work within six (6) months from the date it
began, subject to delays caused by weather, strikes, war, acts of God, and
other matters beyond the control of the owner.
If the conditions set forth herein are not met, any restoration or
reconstruction may be completed but must conform to all regulations of the
district in which the structure is located, so that the nonconformity is
eliminated. In that event, any of the restoration or reconstruction work that
has already been completed and that is not in such conformance (or that
continues the nonconformity) must be removed at once before further work may be
undertaken.
      E.   Nonconformity caused by City. In the event that a building,
structure or use is caused to become nonconforming as to setback requirements
after the date of the adoption of this Ordinance and because of street or
highway construction of the City such building, structure or use shall not be
subject to the restrictions contained in this section as to such nonconforming
setbacks.
      F.   Vacant lot setback requirements. In the event that a portion of a
vacant lot has been taken by, or conveyed to, the City of Oakwood for the
purpose of widening or realigning an adjacent street or highway, the front yard
setback requirements for such vacant lots shall be deemed to be measured from
the front lot line which existed previous to the taking or conveyance.
      G.   Addition of more land so as to eliminate nonconformity.
         1.   A nonconforming situation with regard to any yard, setback,
location of building, total area or width of lot, or other similar matter, may
be cured and eliminated by the property owner having acquired additional and
contiguous land. If the combination of such additional land with the previous
owned tract would have the effect of eliminating such a nonconformity, the two
parcels of ground shall be deemed to have been joined and combined, to the
extent necessary to eliminate the nonconformity.
         2.   If, after allocating enough of the additional land to eliminate
the nonconformity on the original tract, there is sufficient additional land
left to constitute a separate conforming lot, the combination of the parcels of
land shall be deemed to have created two conforming zoning lots, with the
dividing line located so as just to cure the nonconformity on the original
tract. If, however, there is not enough additional land to eliminate the
nonconformity and still leave a balance large enough for another conforming
lot, the combination of the parcels of land shall be deemed to have produced
one zoning lot in common ownership. Any division of part of such a zoning lot
must be accomplished by following the subdivision regulations of this City.
   1303.3 Non-Conforming Use of Buildings or Structures
      A.   Expansion of Nonconforming Use
         1.   Building or structure designed or intended for nonconforming use.
The nonconforming use of part of a building or structure, all or substantially
all of which is designed or intended for a use not permitted in the district in
which it is located (such as a structure designed for single family residential
use converted to retail space within a business zoning district), may be
extended throughout the building or structure in which such use is presently
located, but no changes or structural alterations which increase the bulk of
the building or structure shall be made unless such changes of structural
alterations, and the use thereof, conform to all the regulations of the
district in which the building or structure is located.
         2.   Building or structure designed or intended for permitted use. The
nonconforming use of part of a building or structure designed or intended for a
use permitted in the district in which it is located must not be expanded or
extended into any other portion of such building or structure, nor changed to
any nonconforming use.
      B.   Change of Nonconforming Use
         1.   Building or structure designed or intended for nonconforming use.
The nonconforming use of a building or structure, all or substantially all of
which is designed or intended for use not permitted in the district in which it
is located, may be changed to a use permitted in the same district as the
building or structure, or if that same district is residential, the use may be
changed to any use permitted in a more restrictive residential zoning district.
For the purpose of this subsection only, the R1 Single-Family Residence
District shall be considered the most restrictive and the Business District the
least restrictive.
         2.   Building or structure designed or intended for permitted use. No
nonconforming use shall be changed to another nonconforming use when such
nonconforming use is located in a building or structure designed or intended
for a permitted use.
      C.   Expansion of Use in a Nonconforming Building or Structure
A conforming use in a nonconforming building or structure, may be expanded
within the building or structure in which said use is presently located.
However, no changes or structural alterations shall be made unless such changes
or structural alterations and the use thereof conform to all the regulations of
the district in which the building or structure is located.
 
   1303.4 Discontinuance of Nonconforming Use
If the nonconforming use of a building or structure is voluntarily discontinued
for a continuous period of one hundred eighty (180) days, it shall not be
renewed; and any subsequent use of the building, structure or premises must
conform to the use regulations of the district in which it is located.
Sec. 1304 Non-Conforming Use of Land
The nonconforming use of land not involving a building or structure ( such as a
storage yard or parking lot), or in connection with which any building or
structure thereon is incidental or accessory to the principal use of the land,
may be continued subject to the following provisions.
   A.   Expansion
A nonconforming use of land must not be expanded or extended beyond the area it
occupies.
   B.   Discontinuance
If a nonconforming use of land is discontinued for a period of one hundred and
eighty (180) consecutive days, it shall not thereafter be renewed. Any
subsequent use of the land shall conform to the regulations of the district in
which the land is located.
   C.   Change of Use
A nonconforming use of land shall not be changed to any other use except to a
use permitted in the district in which the land is located.
Sec. 1305 Nonconforming Fences and walls
   A.   Nonconforming Fences and Walls
Fences and walls (except for plant material) constructed prior to the adoption
of this Ordinance which do not conform to the provisions of this section will
be considered legal nonconforming structures. However, any replacement of a
nononforming fence or wall, either by sections or of the whole, in excess of
fifty (50) percent of its total area, the entire fence shall be made to conform
to the provisions of this Ordinance. No portion of an existing nonconforming
fence may be expanded or lengthened.
Ordinary repairs and maintenance may be made, provided such repairs and
maintenance do not increase the height, or cause any other structural change,
or the relocation of the fence.
Sec. 1306 Non-Conforming Driveway Setback
Where a driveway is legally nonconforming as to its setback along a lot line
(see Section 1101.5) normal maintenance or reconstruction of the driveway will
not require conformance to the setback regulation, unless a new attached or
detached accessory garage is proposed in association with a driveway
improvement.
 
APPENDIX
TABLE 1
CONTAMINANT HAZARD POTENTIAL RANKING CLASSIFIED BY SOURCE
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f752eac09bdab3a31096240af57a326796d5b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4648.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f752eac09bdab3a31096240af57a326796d5b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4652.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f752eac09bdab3a31096240af57a326796d5b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4657.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f752eac09bdab3a31096240af57a326796d5b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4663.jpg]
TABLE 2
CONTAMINANT HAZARD POTENTIAL RANKING CLASSIFIED BY TYPE
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f752eac09bdab3a31096240af57a326796d5b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4670.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f752eac09bdab3a31096240af57a326796d5b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4678.jpg]
CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF OAKWOOD
PART ELEVEN - SUBDIVISIONS
   TITLE SEVEN - SUBDIVISIONS
      Chapter
1171 . Subdivision Regulations.
      Chapter
1175 . Underground Utility Lines.
***** TITLE SEVEN - SUBDIVISIONS *****
      Chapter
1171 . Subdivision Regulations.
      Chapter
1175 . Underground Utility Lines.
CHAPTER 1171
Subdivision Regulations
1171.01   Definitions.
1171.02   Procedure for preliminary and final plat approval.
1171.03   General principle of procedure.
1171.04   General principles of design; minimum requirements for layout.
1171.05   Preliminary plat requirements.
1171.06   Requirements for improvements.
1171.07   Final plat requirements; surety bond for improvement completion.
1171.08   Variances.
1171.09   Lot splits on which no plat is required.
1171.10   Fees for subdivision.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Planning Commission - see CHTR.
7.01. 
Plat and contents - see ORC 711.01 et. seq.
Planned development - see Z. 1101.58, Appx. H.
 
 
1171.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in these Subdivision Regulations, the following terms have the
meaning respectively ascribed to them:
   A.   "Commission" means the Planning Commission of this City.
   B.   "Secretary" means the person who acts as clerk of and who prepares
minutes of meetings of the Commission.
   C.   "Subdivision" means a division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into
two or more lots, plots, sites or other divisions of land for immediate or
future sale, transfer of ownership or building development, including all
changes in street or lot lines. It also means the combination of more than one
lot, tract or parcels of land into a smaller number or different arrangement of
lots, plots, sites or other divisions of land for immediate or future sale,
transfer of ownership or building development, including all changes in street
or lot lines.
   D.   "Thoroughfares, boulevards and parkways" means the thoroughfares,
highways, boulevards and parkways designated as such by the City Manager,
acting on advice of a qualified traffic engineer.
    E.   "Local service street" means a street intended to serve and to provide
access exclusively to the properties abutting thereon.
   F.   "Minor street" means any street not a thoroughfare, boulevard, parkway
or local service street.
1171.02 PROCEDURE FOR PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   A.   No person proposing to make or having made a subdivision within the
City shall sell or transfer, make any contract for the sale or transfer of, or
shall offer to sell such subdivision or any part thereof, or shall proceed with
any construction work on the proposed subdivision, including grading, which may
affect the arrangement of the streets, or of any existing or proposed lot,
until he has obtained from the Commission at least tentative approval of the
preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision.
   B.   In planning and developing a subdivision, the subdivider or his agent
shall in every case pursue the following procedure:
      1.   The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat of the proposed
subdivision in accordance with requirements set forth in Section
1171.05 , and shall file with the Commission Secretary an application in
writing for the tentative approval of such plat, accompanied by four
blueprints, at least two weeks prior to the meeting of the Commission at which
action is desired.
      2.   The subdivider shall submit a topographical plan and impact study
with and as a part of the preliminary plat. This plan and study must be
certified by a surveyor or engineer registered or licensed with or by the State
of Ohio. The plan shall be on such scale with such elevation lines and shall
include such surrounding land as may reasonably be required by the City
Manager.
The preliminary plat shall not be approved unless the topographical plan and
impact study are approved (with or without modifications) by the Planning
Commission. No such approval of the plan and study shall be made by the
Planning Commission unless it shall find that:
      The establishment of the proposed plat and development of the land will
not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of any other property in the
immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted, nor substantially
diminish or impair any property values within the neighborhood.
The establishment of the proposed plat will not create any lot with topography
that would endanger any aspect of the public health, safety, morals, comfort,
convenience or general welfare.
The topographical plan and impact study must provide for preservation of the
existing topography on that part of the area to be platted which abuts or is
across the street from a wooded park (designated as such on the list of parks
maintained by the City Manager under Section
935.02)  through a topographical preservation easement. The topographical
preservation easement requirement shall apply for a depth of between 20 feet
and 50 feet to be measured from any such contiguous park or, if the park is
across the street, from the dividing line between the property to be platted
and the street right-of-way. The final depth of the easement shall be
established by the planning commission with that decision to be based on the
standard or test of what depth is necessary or appropriate to protect the
integrity of the designated wooded park from the effect of a change in the
topography abutting or across the street from in that wooded park. That
topographical preservation easement shall not give the public any right of
entry onto the property, but instead shall merely require that the existing
topography may not be changed except as follows:
By a driveway, or by a variance authorized under Section 1
171.08,  subject to the additional requirements that a driveway must be limited
in size and location as described in Section 1101.5 (B) of the zoning code and
that the applicant must establish by a preponderance of the evidence that the
only reasonable driveway access to the property would be through the easement
area and that the proposed location of a driveway within the easement area is
such that it maximizes preservation of the topography, to the extent reasonably
possible. (Ord. 4298, passed 6/19/95; Ord. 4518, effective 10/16/02).
      3.   The subdivider shall submit a horticultural plan and impact study
with and as a part of a preliminary plat.
The plan and study shall be on such scale and shall contain such information as
may reasonably be required by the City Manager. The Horticultural Committee (if
one exists) of this City shall be given an opportunity to submit its
recommendation as to the horticultural plan and study. If no such committee
exists, the horticulturist for the City shall act in that capacity. The
preliminary plat shall not be approved unless the horticultural plan and study
are approved (with or without modifications) by the Planning Commission. No
such approval of the plan and study shall be made by the Planning Commission
unless it shall find that:
The establishment of the proposed subdivision will not be detrimental to or
endanger trees, bushes, flowers and other forms of growth which could be
preserved through the exercise of special care, i.e. substantially more than
reasonable care, in developing the land.
The establishment of the proposed subdivision will not be injurious to the use
and enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes
already permitted, nor substantially diminish or impair property values with
the neighborhood.
The horticultural plan and impact study must provide for preservation of wooded
areas on that part of the area to be platted which abuts, or is across the
street from, a wooded park (designated as such on the list of parks maintained
by the city manager under Section
935.02 ) through a tree preservation easement. This preservation easement
requirement applies for a depth of 20 to 50 feet to be measured from any such
contiguous park or, if the park is across the street, from the dividing line
between the land to be platted and the street right-of-way. The final depth of
the easement shall be established by the planning commission with that decision
to be based on the standard or test of what depth is necessary or appropriate
to protect the integrity of the designated wooded park from the effect of a
change in the density and maturity of wooded park trees, excluding underbrush,
abutting or across the street from that wooded park. The tree preservation
easement shall not give the public any right of entry onto the property, but
instead shall merely require that no living, non-diseased trees may be cut down
or damaged except as follows:
By a driveway, or by a variance authorized under Section 1
171.08 , subject to the additional requirements that a driveway must be limited
in size and location as described in Section 1101.5 B of the zoning code and
that the applicant must establish by a preponderance of the evidence that the
only reasonable driveway access to the property would be through the easement
area and that the proposed location of a driveway within the easement area is
such that it maximizes preservation of the wooded area, to the extent
reasonably possible, or
For underground utility lines, subject to the condition that the area where
trees have been removed is to be subject to an immediate tree-replanting
requirement, with the size, species and location of replacement trees to be as
reasonably determined by a city horticulturist. Any utility easement granted
after the effective date of this portion of the codified ordinances shall be
deemed subject to this requirement, whether or not expressed in the utility
easement. (Ord. 4298, passed 6/19/95; Ord. 4518, effective 10/16/02).
      4.   The preliminary plat will be checked by the Commission as to its
conformity with the principles, standards and requirements hereinafter set
forth, and the Secretary will transmit a copy of such preliminary plat to the
City Manager for his comments.
      5.   The Commission will tentatively approve or disapprove the
preliminary plat, or approve it with modifications, noting thereon any changes
that will be required. One copy will be returned to the subdivider with the
date of such tentative approval or disapproval endorsed thereon. Similar copies
will also be transmitted to the City Manager.
      6.   The subdivider may then secure from the appropriate authorities the
necessary permits to proceed from the street and sanitary improvements.
      7.   After the completion of all improvements to the satisfaction of the
authorities having jurisdiction, the subdivider shall file with the City
Manager an original tracing in waterproof ink on tracing cloth together with
three blueprints of the final plat in accordance with the requirements of
Section
1171.07 . The final plat shall be accompanied by a certificate of title, i.e. a
title report or title insurance, showing the ownership of all lands to be
dedicated to public use and that the title therefor is free and unencumbered.
      8.   The City Manager shall check the final plat as to computations,
certifications, lot areas and numbers, monuments, etc. If found satisfactory,
he will transmit all copies of the final plat to the Commission, together with
the certificate of title and a two-fold certificate showing:
         a.   That the technical details of the plat itself have been checked
and found satisfactory, and
          b.   That all improvements have been completed to the satisfaction of
the authorities having jurisdiction.
      9.   After the final plat, together with such certificates, has been
received, and provided that the final plat is found to conform with the
preliminary plat as tentatively approved and with the requirements set forth in
these Regulations, the Commission will give the final plat its final approval
and endorse the same thereon. The original tracing so endorsed will then be
returned to the subdivider.
      10.   The final plat of the subdivision so approved shall then be filed
in the office of the Montgomery County Recorder.
      11.   To ensure that the above standards are met for any land that is the
subject of a proposed plat, both the preliminary and the final plat must depict
and also describe in words not only the yard setbacks required by applicable
sections of the zoning code but also any topographical and tree preservation
easements. (Ord. 4298, passed 6/19/95).
1171.03 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF PROCEDURE.
   A.   It is suggested that the subdivider or his engineer consult with the
City Manager while the plat is in sketch form and before the preliminary plat
is prepared, to ascertain the location of proposed thoroughfares, boulevards
and parkways, parks, playgrounds and other planned projects and related
developments.
   B.   The tentative approval of the preliminary plat by the Commission is
revocable and does not constitute acceptance of the subdivision. It is to be
considered only as approval of the layout, with the understanding that the City
Manager will examine the grades of streets, the types of improvements, the
design of the drainage, sewerage and water system, as proposed, and may modify
any engineering or construction details whenever the protection of the public
interest may so require.
   C.   Tentative approval of a preliminary plat is to be effective for one
year unless extended by the Commission.
   D.   The final plat of any portion of a larger subdivision, the preliminary
plat of which has been tentatively approved, may be submitted for final
approval.
   E.   The approval of the final plat by the Commission shall not be deemed to
constitute or affect an acceptance by the public of the dedication of any
street or other proposed way or space shown on the plat.
 
1171.04 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF DESIGN; MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR LAYOUT.
   In the laying out of subdivisions, the subdivider shall observe the
following general principles and requirements:
   A.   Street and block layout.
      1.   The subdivision layout shall conform to the location of all forms of
streets in the City of Oakwood and to the location of proposed streets as
determined by the City Manager (on the advice of a duly-qualified traffic
engineer). Whenever a tract to be subdivided embraces any part of a
thoroughfare, highway, boulevard or parkway designated by the City Manager,
such part of the proposed public way shall be provided for by the subdivider in
the location indicated by the Manager.
      2.   The street layout shall be in conformity with a plan for the most
advantageous development of the entire neighborhood.
         a.   As far as practicable, all proposed streets shall be continuous
and in alignment with existing, planned or platted streets with which they are
to connect.
         b.   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the
tract to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical
conditions, or unless, in the opinion of the Commission, such extension is not
necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of the subdivision
with the existing layout, or the most advantageous future development of
adjacent tracts. Dead-end streets of reasonable length will be approved where
necessitated by topography or where, in the opinion of the Commission, they are
appropriate for the type of development contemplated.
         c.   Should there be, along the adjoining boundary line of another
plat, a half-width street or alley duly transferred or dedicated and recorded,
the other half width of such street or alley must be dedicated on the proposed
plat to make the same complete.
         d.   Streets shall follow contour lines wherever practicable.
         e.   Streets shall intersect one another as nearly at right angles as
topography and other limiting factors of good design permit.
          f.   Alleys shall be provided in all business sections and in the
rear of lots fronting on thoroughfares, boulevard and parkways, but will not be
approved in residential areas, other than fronting on such public ways, unless
required by rugged topography or other unusual conditions.
         g.   Sidewalks shall be provided if required by the Planning
Commission and to the extent that requirement is based upon vehicular and
pedestrian traffic reasonably to be expected in the neighborhood and upon all
other conditions within the applicable block.
         h.   No plat may be approved if an easement over or use of an
adjoining lot or tract of land is necessary to provide means of vehicular or
pedestrian ingress and egress to any part of it or the tract from which it
came. Nor shall a proposed plat be approved if any portion of a lot is subject
to an easement for the use of other lots in the immediate vicinity (for
example, an easement allowing adjoining property to use part of the lot to be
subdivided for ingress or egress or for any other purposes) except for utility
easements.
      3.   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two tiers of lots
of appropriate depths.
         a.   Blocks shall not exceed 1,800' in length.
         b.   A crosswalk or pedestrian way, not less than 10' wide, shall be
provided near the center and entirely across any block over 1,000' in length.
         c.   The number of intersecting streets along thoroughfares,
boulevards and parkways shall be held to a minimum. Wherever practicable,
blocks along such traffic ways should be not less than 1,200' in length.
   B.   Minimum right-of-way widths of streets; alleys and easements for
utilities.
      1.   Thoroughfares, boulevards and parkways: Not less than 80' wide.
      2.   Minor streets: 60'.
       3.   Local service streets and dead-end streets not over 600' long: 50'.
All dead-end streets shall terminate in a circular turnaround having a minimum
right-of-way diameter of 80', unless the Commission approves a "T" or "Y"
shaped paved space in place of the required turning circle.
      4.   Alleys: 20'.
      5.   Easements for utilities shall be provided along rear and side lot
lines. Such easements shall be at least 10' wide.
   C.   Minimum roadway widths.
      1.   Thoroughfares, boulevards and parkways: Not less than 27' and not
required to be more than 40'.
      2.   Minor streets: 27'.
      3.   Local service streets and dead-end streets not over 600' long: 24'.
The pavement of a turning circle at the end of a dead-end street shall have a
minimum outside diameter of 60'. A "T" or "Y" shaped paved space, when approved
by the Commission in place of a turning circle, shall extend entirely across
the width of a street right-of-way, shall be at least 10' wide and shall be
rounded by minimum radii of 20'.
      4.   Alleys, where required: 20'.
   D.   Street grades, curves and sight distances.
      1.   The grade of streets shall not exceed the following:
         a.   Main thoroughfares, boulevards, parkways: 7%.
         b.   Minor streets, local service streets and alleys: 10%.
         c.   Pedestrian ways or crosswalks: 20%, unless steps of an acceptable
design are to be constructed.
      2.   All changes in street grades shall be connected with vertical curves
of a minimum length equivalent to 15 times the algebraic difference in the rate
of grade for thoroughfares, boulevards and parkways, and one-half of this
minimum for all other streets.
       3.   The radii of curvature on the center line shall not be less than
the following:
         a.   Thoroughfares, boulevards and parkways: 300'.
         b.   Minor and local service streets: 100'.
      4.   A tangent of at least 100' in length shall be provided between
reversed curves.
      5.   The following minimum sight distances or clear visibility measured
along the center line shall be provided:
         a.   Main thoroughfares, boulevards and parkways: 300'.
         b.   Minor and local service streets: 100'.
   E.   Intersections.
      1.   At street and at alley intersections property line corners shall be
rounded by an arc, the minimum radius of which shall be 10' and 5',
respectively. In business districts a chord may be substituted for such arc.
The above minimum radii shall be increased when the smallest angle of
intersection is less than 60 .
      2.   Street curb intersections shall be rounded by radii of at least 20'.
   F.   Lots.
      1.   The size, shape and orientation of lots shall be appropriate for the
location of the proposed subdivision and for the type of development
contemplated.
      2.   Every lot shall front or abut on a street.
      3.   Lots for residence purposes shall have an area of not less than
6,000 sq. ft., shall be at least 60' wide on the building lines, and shall be
at least 100' deep.
      4.   Double-frontage lots and reversed-frontage lots at street
intersections shall be avoided.
      5.   Side lot lines shall be approximately at right angles to the street
line on which the lot fronts.
       6.   Corner lots shall be platted desirable 10' to 15' wider, in order
to permit near conformance with the setback line on the side street as required
by the Zoning Code, and butt lots for residence use at least 5' wider than
those in mid- block.
      7.   In case a tract is subdivided into larger parcels than normal
building lots, such parcels shall be so arranged as to allow the resubdivision
of any such parcels into normal lots in accord with the requirements of these
Regulations.
      8.   If a lot with an existing residence building is to be platted or
replatted, all yard requirements of the applicable zoning district shall be
increased by 1' for each 2' the building exceeds a height of 20'.
      9.   No tract or lot which is nonconforming (as to area, width or yard
requirements or bulk limitations or any other aspect) may be platted or
replatted until and unless that nonconformity has been eliminated through the
granting of a variance. This section of the Subdivision Regulations shall not
be deemed to authorize or encourage the granting of such variances.
      10.   No subdivision shall be approved if it would create a building lot
which is directly or partially in front of an existing building so as to lie
between that building and the adjacent or nearby street. This requirement shall
be subject to the possibility of a variance being granted by the Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission shall not grant such a variance unless it
finds that the topographical plan, horticultural plan and all aspects of the
land being subdivided and the surrounding property are such that doing so:
         a.   Will not have a material adverse impact on the use and enjoyment
of any other property in the immediate vicinity for purposes already permitted.
         b.   Will not substantially diminish and impair any property values
within the neighborhood; and
         c.   Will not otherwise have a material adverse impact on any aspect
of the public health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience or general welfare.
      11.   The size of lots shall also be affected by application of a Lot
Area Ratio. This is a figure derived by dividing the buildable area of a
minimum lot for a zoning district into the square foot size of that minimum
lot. The building area is determined by subtracting the basic amount or level
of required yard size for a particular use from the minimum lot area required
for that use. For example, if the buildable area of a lot were 8,000 sq. ft.
and if the minimum lot size in the applicable zoning district were 40,000 sq.
ft., the Lot Area Ratio would be 5.
The Lot Area Ratio would be applied in the following manner. The total amount
of impervious surface on a lot (including the principal building, accessory
structures and all other forms of impervious surface) shall be multiplied by
the Lot Area Ratio. The result is the amount of land which must accompany and
be reserved for an existing principal building if the land on which that
building is located is being subdivided so as to create a new lot. Similarly,
this is the amount of land which must be available for a new principal
building, accessory structures, etc. If, for example, a house and its accessory
impervious surfaces in a particular zoning district were so large that the
total impervious surface on the tract of land amounted to 16,000 sq. ft., and
if the Lot Area Ratio were 5 for that district, that figure of 16,000 sq. ft.
would be multiplied by the Lot Area Ratio of 5. The resulting figure of 80,000
sq. ft. would represent the minimum amount of land required to accompany that
principal building.
Accordingly, if such a house and accompanying impervious surfaces already
existed and were located upon a tract of 80,000 sq. ft. of land in R- 1
district (in which the minimum lot size is 40,000 sq. ft.), it might appear at
first that the land could be subdivided so as to create an extra buildable lot.
Once the Lot Area Ratio is applied, however, it becomes apparent that the
existing house requires all of that 80,000 sq. ft. for itself, and thus no
subdivision would be permitted and no extra building lot could be created.
Although the Lot Area Ratio may be applied in this fashion to increase land
requirements above the minimum lot size required for any particular residential
zoning district, in no event may a lot be created or a principal building
located upon a tract of ground smaller than that minimum lot size. As a result,
even if a particularly small house were to be constructed in the R-1 district
and if that house had no accessory structures and very little impervious
surface accompanying it, the minimum lot size for newly platted or for
replatted lots may not be reduced below the 40,000 sq. ft. required for that
zoning district.
Any division of a zoning lot authorized under sub-section (B) (3) of Section
1302, which deals with lot size requirements, shall be exempt from the
application of the lot area ratio.
   G.   Open spaces other than streets.
Due consideration should be given to the allocation of suitable areas for
school, parks and playgrounds to be dedicated for the public use or reserved
for the common use of all property owners within the proposed subdivision by
covenant in the deeds. In the interest of the public welfare, it is urged that
at least 5% of the area of every subdivision, exclusive of streets, be set
aside for recreational purposes. Where the tract contains less than 40 acres,
such reservation for open space should be combined, wherever possible, with
similar reservations in adjoining tracts.
1171.05 PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   The preliminary plat of a proposed subdivision shall be prepared by a
registered professional engineer or surveyor. Four blueprints shall accompany
an application in writing to the Commission for the tentative approval of the
subdivision.
   B.   The horizontal scale of the preliminary plat shall be 100' or less to
the inch, and the vertical scale of street and sewer profiles 20' or less to
the inch.
   C.   The preliminary plat shall clearly show the following features and
information:
      1.   The proposed name of the subdivision. The proposed name shall not
duplicate or closely approximate the name of any other subdivision in
Montgomery County.
      2.   The tract designation according to the real estate records of the
Auditor and Recorder of Montgomery County.
      3.   Names and addresses of the owner of record, the subdivider and the
engineer or surveyor.
      4.   Sufficient information to locate accurately the subdivision.
Reference to existing thoroughfares, plat, etc., may be used; if such do not
exist within reasonable distance of the proposed subdivision, a vicinity plat
on a small scale shall accompany the preliminary plat.
      5.   The location and names of adjacent subdivisions and the names of
owners of adjacent acreage.
      6.   The location, width and names of all existing or platted streets and
ways adjacent to the tract, and other important features within 200' of the
boundary lines, such as railroad lines, water courses, exceptional topography,
etc.
      7.   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts and other underground
structures within the tract and immediately adjacent thereto.
      8.   The boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided, accurate in scale
and bearing with a relative error of closure of less than 1 to 10,000.
      9.   Contours at 5' intervals.
       10.   The layout, names and widths of proposed streets, alleys and
easements, and the layout of lots and typical lot dimensions. Proposed street
names shall not duplicate or closely approximate any existing names in the City
of Oakwood or the City of Dayton, except coterminous streets.
      11.   Thoroughfares, boulevards and parkways and all other streets as may
be approved by the City Manager on the advice of a duly-qualified traffic
engineer. Such streets shall be distinctly marked "thoroughfare," "boulevard"
or "parkway" on the plat, and their official right-of-way widths and roadway
widths shall be shown.
      12.   The approximate profile of each street, with tentative grades
indicated.
      13.   The cross sections of proposed streets, showing width of roadways
and location of sidewalks.
      14.   The plans and profiles of proposed streets, showing width of
roadways and location of sidewalks.
      15.   Zoning boundary lines, if any; proposed uses of property and
setback lines.
      16.   Any corporation lines which pass through the tract.
      17.   All parcels of land intended to be dedicated for public use or
reserved in the deeds for the use of all property owners, with the purpose
intended.
      18.   North point, scale and date.
      19.   Copies of any private restrictions to be included in the deeds
should be attached to the preliminary plat.
 
   D.   All subdivision applications and/or issues are subject to all
provisions and requirements of the City's stormwater management code (Part
Twelve - Stormwater Management Code). (Ord. 4672, passed 5/4/09, effective 6/4/
09).
1171.06 REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Improvements shall be installed in accordance with the following
regulations:
    A.   Streets shall be graded to full width and fully constructed with a
type of roadway and sidewalks approved by the City Manager and in accordance
with the specifications and the inspection of this City. A serviceable and
properly drained roadway surface, and sidewalks on at least one side of the
street, shall be provided in every case.
   B.   Whenever there is within reasonable distance a sanitary or storm sewer
main, the subdivision or individual lot shall be provided with a complete
sewerage system which shall connect with the proper main. Where connections
with the existing sewerage system cannot be reasonably provided, proper
provision shall be made for the disposal of sanitary wastes by means of septic
tanks or other approved methods of disposal. The storm flow may be discharged
into the natural drainage system. In general, the entire sewerage system and
the disposal of sanitary and storm sewage shall be planned and built to meet
the reasonable approval of the proper authorities.
   C.   The water distribution system shall be designed to meet the approval of
the City Manager, the County Sanitary Engineer or other officials having
jurisdiction. Fire plugs shall be placed not over 300' apart.
   D.   Poles or underground conduits for electric light or telephone lines
shall be placed in easements along rear lot lines, wherever practicable.
   E.   Trees of a type appropriate for the specific location shall be planted
on both sides of every street. These trees shall be planted from 40' to 60'
apart.
   F.   Permanent monuments of a type and design approved by the City Manager
shall be accurately set and established at the intersection of all outside
boundary lines of the plat, at intersections of these boundary lines with all
street lines, at least at diagonally opposite corners of each street
intersection, at the beginning and end of all curves, at points on curves where
the radius or direction changes, and at such other points as are necessary to
establish definitely all lines of the plat, except those outlining individual
lots.
In general, permanent monuments shall be placed at all critical points
necessary to enable any skilled surveyor to correctly lay out any lot in the
subdivision.
Monuments, if stones, must be not less than 30" square, and must have a cross
cut or other suitable mark indication of the center of the same. Iron pins at
least 1" in diameter and 30" long will be accepted in lieu of monument stones.
   G.   Surface and storm water drainage shall be provided on the site of the
development in accordance with the drainage plan required by Section
1171.05  C 20.
1171.07 FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS; SURETY BOND FOR IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION.
   A.   The final or record plat of the subdivision shall be submitted in the
form of an original drawing in black India ink on tracing cloth, together with
three blueprints of same.
   B.   The final plat shall be drawn at the scarce of 50', or less, to the
inch, and shall clearly show the following features and information:
      1.   All plat boundary lines with lengths of courses to hundredths of a
foot and bearings to half minutes. The boundaries shall be determined by an
accurate survey in the field, which shall be balanced and closed. The error of
closure shall not exceed 1 to 10,000. The exact location and the width along
the property line of all existing or recorded streets intersecting or
paralleling the boundaries of the tract.
      2.   True bearings and distances to nearest established street bounds,
section lines or other official monuments, which monuments shall be located or
accurately described on the plat. Any section lines and corporation lines shall
be accurately monument-marked and located on the plat, and their name shall be
printed on them.
      3.   The accurate location and material of all permanent reference
monuments.
      4.   The exact layout including:
         a.   Street and alley lines, their names, bearings, angles of
intersection and widths, including widths along the line of any obliquely-
intersecting streets.
         b.   The length of all arcs; radii, points of curvature and tangent
bearings.
         c.   All easements whether public or private, with the name of the
person or entity owning the easement rights, and the recording reference to the
legal document(s) that granted the easement rights being set forth on the plat.
         d.   All lot lines with dimensions in feet and hundredths, and with
bearings and angles to minutes if other than right angles to the street and
alley lines.
      5.   Lots numbered in numerical order. In tracts containing more than one
block, the blocks shall be lettered in alphabetical order. In case there is a
resubdivision of lots in any block, such resubdivided lots shall be designated
by their original number prefixed with the term most accurately describing such
division, such as w 1/2 of 3, N 40' of 5, etc., or they shall be numbered
numerically beginning with the number following the highest lot number in the
block.
      6.   The accurate outline of all property which is offered for dedication
for public use, and of all property that may be reserved by covenant in the
deed for the common use of the property owners in the subdivision, with the
purpose indicated thereon.
       7.   Setback building lines as fixed by the Zoning Code and any other
setback lines or street lines established by public authority, and those
stipulated in the deed restrictions.
      8.   Private restrictions, if any:
         a.   Boundaries of each type of use restriction.
         b.   Other private restrictions for each definitely restricted section
of the subdivision.
      9.   Name of the subdivision and name or number of the largest
subdivision or tract of which the tract now subdivided forms a part.
      10.   Names and locations of adjoining subdivisions and location and
ownership of adjoining unsubdivided property.
      11.   Names and addresses of the owner of record, the subdivider, and of
the engineer or surveyor.
      12.   North point, scale and date.
      13.   Statement that any lot transferred will have a minimum width and
area substantially the same as those shown on the plat, and that only one
principal building will be permitted on any such lot.
      14.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or surveyor to
the effect that the plat represents a survey made by him and that all monuments
indicated thereon actually exist and their location, size and material are
correctly shown, and that all requirements of these Subdivision Regulations
have been fully complied with.
   C.   In lieu of the completion of the improvements in connection with a
subdivision, the Commission may accept a bond executed by a surety company as a
condition of final plat approval. Such bond shall be based upon an estimate by
the City Engineer of the cost of completing such improvements, shall be
furnished by the subdivider in an amount equal to the estimated cost of the
completion of such improvements, shall be written by a surety company
satisfactory to the Commission and shall be conditioned upon the satisfactory
completion of such improvements within one year after approval of the final
plat and full payment by the subdivider of all claims of subcontractors,
materialmen, laborers, general contractors and employees of such subdivider in
connection with the work and materials involved in such improvements. As an
alternative, the subdivider may deposit a cashier's check with, and payable to,
the City Treasurer in place of such surety bond and such deposit shall be
deemed to be upon the same conditions as described immediately above. In the
event such improvements are not completed within the period of one year, the
City shall proceed with the work of completing such improvements and shall hold
the subdivider and the bonding company jointly responsible for the costs
thereof if a surety bond has been posted, or shall first exhaust the cashier's
check deposit and shall hold the subdivider responsible for any remaining costs
in the event the subdivider has elected to deposit a cashier's check instead of
posting a surety bond.
   D.   All streets, alleys, thoroughfares, boulevards, parkways and highways,
together with the required right-of-way therefor, shall be offered for
dedication in fee simple to the City through language on the final plat.
 
1171.08 VARIANCES.
   In any particular case where, because of topographic or other conditions,
strict compliance with the foregoing provisions would cause practical
difficulties or exceptional and undue hardship on the subdivider, the
Commission may authorize a variance from the strict application of these
provisions so as to relieve such difficulties or hardship, provided such relief
may be granted without substantial detriment to the public good and without
substantially impairing the intent and purpose of these Regulations or the
desirable general development, in accordance with the plans of the Commission,
the City and the surrounding area.
1171.09 SUBDIVISIONS FOR WHICH NO FORMAL PLATTING PROCESS IS REQUIRED.
   A.   The City Manager shall have authority to approve small subdivisions, to
include carve-offs and parcel consolidations, without necessity of a formal
platting process if the proposed subdivision meets all of the conditions set
forth below and if, in the City Manager's discretion, such subdivision is of a
de minimis nature and does not rise to the level of necessitating Planning
Commission review to ensure compatibility with the standards within this
Subdivision Code. The City Manager shall not be obligated or required, however,
to grant such administrative approvals without a formal platting process, and
the action of the City Manager in approving any one or more such subdivisions
without a plat or plats shall not be deemed to constitute a precedent in favor
of similar approvals on other subdivisions:
      1.   The proposed subdivision is located along an existing dedicated
public street and involves no opening, widening or extension of any street or
road.
      2.   No single lot shall be divided into more than five lots, nor shall
more than five lots be consolidated into a single lot, under this Section
1171.09 .
      3.   The proposed subdivision is not contrary to applicable zoning or
subdivision regulations of this City (in this respect, the subdivision
regulations specifically require a formal platting process; and the requirement
that the proposed subdivision is not contrary to the subdivision regulations
can be met only if the City Manager exercises his discretion under this Section
1171.09  so as to waive the formal platting process requirement).
      4.   All lots involved shall have been surveyed and a survey drawing
showing the entire property and all buildings and driveways thereon and a metes
and bounds or other legal description, satisfactory to the City Attorney, of
the original tract of land and any parcel or parcels to be split off, shall be
submitted with the application. Such drawing and description shall have been
prepared by a surveyor or engineer registered with the State of Ohio and shall
be certified by that surveyor or engineer to be accurate and complete.
      5.   With the application for approval without a formal platting process,
there must also be submitted the proposed record mylar, deed or other
instrument of conveyance.
 
   B.   If the City Manager exercises his discretion so as to approve the
proposed subdivision without necessity of a formal platting process, the City
Manager shall, within seven working days after the application has been filed
and after the above conditions have been met, stamp or endorse the proposed
record mylar, deed or other conveyance the words "Approved by the City Manager;
No further authorization required if recorded within 30 days from this
approval. Ord.
1171.09., " or words of similar import. Such stamp or signature block shall
provide a place for the City Manager or his designee to sign and date the
approval, and only upon such approval by the City Manager the authorized
representative shall so sign and date the conveyance.
   C.   A nonrefundable fee shall be charged for the City Manager's review of
any subdivision application under this Section
1171.09. The amount of the fee shall be set by the City Manager under Chapter
153 of the Administrative Code.
1171.10 FEES FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   The following fees shall be applicable to subdivisions:
   A.   An application fee shall be charged for the submission to the Planning
Commission of the plat of any proposed subdivision of real estate within the
City. The amount of the fee shall be set by the City Manager under Chapter
153  of the Administrative Code.
   B.   An engineering fee shall be charged for the filing with the Planning
Commission of a plat for any proposed subdivision, such fee to be applied to
engineering costs incurred by the City in connection with the subdivision. The
amount of the fee shall be set by the City Manager under Chapter
153  of the Administrative Code. An additional engineering fee deposit also
shall be charged for such filing of a proposed plat with this additional fee to
be applied to engineering costs incurred by the City in reviewing the drainage
plan and opinion required for new plats under Section
1171.05  C 20. Any direct or indirect expenses incurred by the City for
engineering and/or advertising in excess of the total engineering fee and
deposit shall be paid by the applicant before the plat of the proposed
subdivision is approved or disapproved by the Planning Commission. If the
engineering expenses incurred by the City for drainage review are lower than
the engineering fee and deposit, the difference shall be refunded to the
applicant as soon as reasonably possible after the plat of the proposed
subdivision is approved or disapproved by the Planning Commission.
Legislative History: Ord. 2536, passed 2/19/68; Ord. 2537, passed 3/4/68; Ord.
2690, passed 7/6/70; Ord. 2694, passed 8/3/70; Ord. 2737, passed 5/17/71; Ord.
2738, passed 5/17/71; Ord. 2940, dated 11/17/75; Ord. 3127, passed 4/17/80;
Ord. 3211, passed 7/6/81; Ord. 3243, passed 1/4/82; Ord. 3263, passed 5/3/82;
Ord. 3311, passed 11/15/82; Ord. 3314, passed 11/15/82; Ord. 3352, passed 6/6/
83; Ord. 3369, passed 8/1/83; Ord. 3390, passed 12/19/83; Ord. 3559, passed 7/
14/86; Ord. 3588, passed 10/20/86; Ord. 3594, passed 11/3/86; Ord. 3768, passed
6/20/88; Ord. 3868, passed 6/26/89; Ord. 3869, passed 6/26/89; Ord. 4152,
passed 8/24/92; Ord. 4298, passed 6/19/95; Ord. 4516, effective 9/5/02; Ord.
4518, effective 10/16/02; Ord. 5000, effective 6/5/2024.
 
CHAPTER 1175
Underground Utility Lines
 
1175.01    Required underground installation.
1175.02    Restoration; costs.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCE
Underground conduits - see Z.
 1171.07D.
 
 
1175.01 REQUIRED UNDERGROUND INSTALLATION.
   The City Planning Commission is hereby authorized and empowered to require
that certain new utility lines and certain extension of existing utility lines
be installed underground. Such underground installation shall be required in
those instances where underground lines
are in keeping with the character of the neighborhood and where overhead
service would not be appropriate in view of existing and proposed development.
1175.02 RESTORATION; COSTS.
   The disturbance of any public street, sidewalk, paved area, right-of-way or
public land which occurs in connection with such underground installation shall
be repaired and restored to as good a condition as existed before such
installation, at no cost to the City. The City shall not pay any part or all of
the cost of such installation.
Legislative History: Ord. 2535, passed 2/19/68.
CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF OAKWOOD
PART TWELVE - STORMWATER MANAGEMENT CODE
Chap.
1201. Intent, Scope and Administration.
Chap.
1202. Definitions.
Chap.
1203. Illicit Discharge Detection and Elimination.
Chap.
1204. Development of Construction and Post-Construction Site Runoff Control.
Chap.
1205. Implementation and Enforcement of Construction and Post-Construction Site
Runoff Control.
Chap.
1206. Operation and Maintenance of Permanent Stormwater Management Controls.
Chap.
1207. Stormwater System and Detention Facility Design.
Chap.
1208. Violations and Penalties.
CHAPTER 1201
Intent, Scope and Administration
1201.01   Intent.
1201.02   Scope.
1201.03   Authorization of Manager.
1201.04   Fees.
 
 
1201.01 INTENT.
   A.   To comply with the requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) Phase II Stormwater Program promulgated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) under the provisions of the Federal
Clean Water Act;
   B.   To comply with the requirements of the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency General Permit No. OHQ000002, "Authorization for Small Municipal
Separate Storm Sewer Systems to Discharge Storm Water Under the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System" or its successor permits; and
   C.   To protect the land and water resources of the City of Oakwood by
establishing standards to achieve a level of soil erosion and stormwater
control that will minimize and abate degradation of land and water resources
and damage to public and private property resulting from earth-disturbing
activities. To further this general intention, the ordinance further intends
to:
      1.   Assure that those involved in earth-disturbing activities minimize
both soil erosion and the volume and rate of stormwater runoff from their
sites;
      2.   Preserve to the extent practicable the natural drainage
characteristics of the city and minimize the need to construct, repair, and
replace enclosed, subsurface storm drain systems;
      3.   Assure that stormwater controls are incorporated into site planning
and design at the earliest possible stage and that all stormwater management
practices are properly designed, constructed, and maintained;
      4.   Prevent unnecessary stripping of vegetation and loss of soil and to
promptly re- vegetate and stabilize sites following earth-disturbing
activities;
       5.   Reduce the need for costly maintenance and repairs to roads,
embankments, ditches, water resources, and wetlands, through the design and use
of stormwater management practices;
      6.   Encourage the construction of stormwater management practices that
serve multiple purposes such as flood control, erosion control, fire
protection, water quality protection, recreation, and habitat preservation; and
      7.   Preserve to the maximum extent practicable natural infiltration and
groundwater recharge.
1201.02 SCOPE.
   A.   This Ordinance shall apply to both the development and redevelopment of
land proposed for the following:
      1.   Residential, institutional, commercial, office, and industrial
purposes, including subdivision and land development proposals for non-
agricultural uses in rural areas;
      2.   Recreational facilities, non-agricultural water impoundments and
waterway construction or improvement;
      3.   Public infrastructure uses, including transportation and utilities;
and
      4.   Any earth-disturbing activity within critical and sensitive natural
areas, including floodways, floodplains, highly erodible lands and wetlands.
   B.   This Ordinance does not apply to earth-disturbing activities associated
with agricultural activities.
   C.   No earth-disturbing activity subject to regulation under this Ordinance
shall be undertaken on any land proposed for development or redevelopment for
uses specified under Section
1201.02 herein without the following:
      1.   an approved Site Development Plan (SDP) as required under Section
1204.03  herein,
      2.   an approved Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP) as required under
Section
1204.04  herein,
      3.   compliance with the City's Engineering Standards for Design of
Stormwater Systems and Detention Facilities, and
      4.   implementation of required elements of the approved Stormwater
Management Plan (SWMP).
1201.03 AUTHORIZATION OF MANAGER.
   A.    The City Manager, or his designated representative(s), shall be
responsible for administration of this ordinance and for compliance with the
Ohio Environmental Protection Agency General Permit OHQ000002 "Authorization
for Small Municipal Separate Storm Sewer Systems to Discharge Storm Water Under
the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System," or its successor permits.
 
1201.04 FEES.
   A.    The City Manager shall establish a schedule of fees, charges, expenses
and collection procedure for same and other matters pertaining to this
Ordinance. The schedule of fees shall be available at the city of Oakwood
offices. Until all applicable fees, charges and expenses have been paid in
full, no action shall be taken on any application or appeal.
CHAPTER 1202
Definitions
1202.01   Definitions.
 
 
1202.01 DEFINITIONS.
   All words used in this Ordinance shall have their customary meanings and/or
as defined by the Rainwater and Land Development1 publication, except those
specifically defined in this section.
Applicant is the owner and/or developer of a property applying for approval for
a new development or redevelopment site.
Authorized agent is a City official, organization, or group of designated
representatives to provide technical guidance in the development,
implementation and enforcement of these regulations and to review and approve/
disapprove all plans and calculation submittals for new development and
redevelopment sites.
Buffer is a designated transition area around water resources or wetlands that
is left in a natural, usually vegetated, state so as to protect the water
resources or wetlands from runoff pollution. Construction activities in this
area are restricted or prohibited.
Detention basin is a dry impoundment area created by constructing an
embankment, excavating a pit, or both, for the purpose of temporarily storing
stormwater so that stormwater flows are released at a rate equal to or less
than the pre-development peak rate, until the basin is dry.
Detention facility is a detention basin or alternative structure designed to
temporarily store stormwater runoff and gradually release the stored water at a
controlled rate, until the facility is dry.
Development area is any contiguous area owned by one person or operated as one
development unit included within the scope of these regulations, upon which
earth-disturbing activities are planned or underway.
Earth-disturbing activity is any grading, excavation, filling, or other
alteration of the earth's surface where natural or man-made ground cover is
destroyed and which may result in or contribute to erosion and sediment
pollution except that such term shall not apply to agricultural activities.
1 Rainwater and Land Development: Ohio's Standards for Stormwater Management,
Land Development and Urban Stream Protection. Second Edition, 1996. Ohio
Department of Natural Resources, as amended.
 
Erosion is the wearing away of soils by the action of water and/or wind.
Home Sewage Treatment System (HSTS) is a residential underground system in
which waste matter is treated through bacterial action.
Illicit connection is any man made conveyance, other than the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) connecting an illicit discharge directly to
the MS4.
Illicit discharge is any discharge that is not composed entirely of stormwater
except discharges authorized by a state or federal NPDES permit and those
described in Section 1.04(b).
Impervious area is any land area covered by buildings, pavement or other
materials that prevent stormwater from penetrating the soil. (one instance)
Infiltration basin is an impoundment area created by constructing an
embankment, excavating a pit, or both, for the purpose of temporarily storing
stormwater until such time as stormwater infiltrates into the ground until the
basin is dry.
Municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) means all stormwater conveyances
and structural controls including, but not limited to municipal streets, catch
basins, manholes, dry wells (outside the Wellfield protection area), curbs,
gutters, ditches, storm drains, storm sewer pipes, drive pipes, bridges,
culverts, man-made channels, natural channels, detention basins, retention
basins and infiltration basins, overflow weirs, orifice plates and other
similar facilities owned by the City of Oakwood, which are designed or used for
collecting, controlling or conveying stormwater.
New development is the performance of construction activities on a vacant
parcel of land for the use of new buildings and public/private infrastructure,
including but not limited to roadways, sidewalks and utilities, parking lots,
etc.
Parcel is any legally described piece of land created by a partition,
subdivision, deed or other instrument recorded with the appropriate entity or
agency.
Qualified inspection personnel means a person knowledgeable in the principles
and practice of erosion and sediment controls, who possesses the skills to
assess all conditions at the construction site that could impact stormwater
quality and to assess the effectiveness of any sediment and erosion control
measures selected to control the quality of stormwater discharges from the
construction activity.
Re-development is the performance of demolitions and/or construction activities
on a used parcel of land for the use of new/expanded buildings and public/
private infrastructure, including but not limited to roadways, sidewalks,
utilities and parking lots, etc.
Sediment consists of materials, such as soils, which are deposited by water or
wind through erosion.
Sedimentation is the process through which materials, such as soils, are formed
and deposited.
 
Single Residential Property means a single residential structure on a single
zoning lot that consists of not more than four separate residential units.
Site Development Plan (SDP) means the written document and/or set of plans
meeting the requirements of this Ordinance that provides information on the
location of the area proposed for development, the site in relation to its
general surroundings, and existing characteristics of the site, including
limits of earth-disturbing activities.
Stop-work order is an order issued which requires that all work on the site
must cease except work associated with bring the site into compliance with the
approved SDP, SWMP and/or SWP3.
Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP) is the document meeting the requirements of
this Ordinance that sets forth the plans and practices to be used to minimize
stormwater runoff from a site and to safely convey or temporarily store and
release post-development stormwater runoff at an allowable rate to minimize
flooding and erosion.
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWP3) is the document required by the
Ohio EPA for compliance with its applicable NPDES Construction Activities
General Permits. The requirements of the SWP3 are also required as part of the
SWMP as described above and in this Ordinance.
Stormwater is any water flow created by a storm event that collects and runs
off a site such as rain runoff, snow melt runoff, ice melt runoff or flooding.
Stormwater can exist as surface drainage/runoff via overland flows, subsurface
drainage/runoff through storm sewer pipes or open channel flow through natural
or man-made drainage channels.
Structural controls are any man-made facility, structure, or device that is
constructed to provide temporary storage and/or treatment of stormwater runoff.
Examples include, but are not limited to detention basins, infiltration basins,
retention basins, rock check dams, swales, and constructed wetlands.
Watercourse is any natural or artificial waterway (including, but not limited
to, streams, rivers, creeks, ditches, channels, canals, conduits, culverts,
drains, waterways, gullies, ravines, or washes) in which waters flow in a
definite direction or course either continuously or intermittently and
including any area adjacent thereto which is subject to inundation by reason of
overflow of flood waters. (used once)
Wetlands are swamps or marshes, watercourses, drainage tributaries, pools or
ponds in either a perennial or intermittent state.
Zoning Lot is one or more contiguous tracts of land located within a single
block, which (at the time of application for a building permit) is or was
designated in that application or accompanying documents by its owner or
developer as the tract to be used, developed or built upon as a unit, under
single ownership or control as the site for the structure to be built under
that building permit.
CHAPTER 1203
Illicit Discharge Detection and Elimination
1203.01   General.
1203.02   Illicit Discharges.
1203.03   Non-Prohibited Discharges.
1203.04   Home Sewage Treatment Systems (HSTS).
1203.05   Complaint Procedures.
1203.06   Notifying Officials.
 
 
1203.01 GENERAL.
   A.   For the support of this Chapter, the city of Oakwood maintains a
comprehensive set of plans and maps depicting and defining the entire storm
sewer system. Current storm sewer system plans are on file at the Oakwood
Public Works Center.
   
1203.02 ILLICIT DISCHARGES.
   A.   No person(s) shall place, cause to be placed or maintain any material
in the MS4 (Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System) which enters, obstructs or
pollutes the stormwater flow or any part thereof;
   B.   No person(s) shall erect any structure over any part of the MS4 so as
to interfere with stormwater flow, or the maintenance or cleaning of the storm
sewer system infrastructure;
   C.   No person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into,
use, alter, or disturb any part of the MS4 without obtaining written approval
from the city of Oakwood and/or its authorized agent(s);
   D.   No person(s) shall install, cause to be installed, or maintain any
illicit connection to the MS4;
   E.   No person(s) shall cause any illicit discharge to the MS4;
   F.   No person(s) may discharge, spill or dump sewage, industrial wastes,
other wastes, or any substances or materials which are not entirely composed of
stormwater into any water body or into the MS4 or streets, driveways,
sidewalks, parking lots or other areas that drain into the MS4, except those
discharges enumerated in Section
1203.03 herein;
 
   G.   No person(s) causing or contributing to the occurrence of the above
prohibitions shall fail to take all reasonable actions to prevent contamination
or damage to the MS4;
1203.03 NON-PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   A.   Unless an individual discharge is identified by the city of Oakwood
and/or its authorized agent(s) as a significant source of stormwater
contamination, the following non- stormwater discharges are not prohibited by
this ordinance to enter the MS4:
      1.   Potable water line flushing,
      2.   Landscape irrigation,
      3.   Diverted stream flows,
      4.   Rising ground waters,
      5.   Rising flood waters,
      6.   Uncontaminated ground water infiltration,
      7.   Uncontaminated pumped ground water,
      8.   Discharges from potable water sources,
      9.   Foundation drains,
      10.   Air conditioning condensation,
      11.   Irrigation water,
      12.   Springs,
      13.   Uncontaminated water from sump pumps,
      14.   Footing drains,
      15.   Lawn watering,
      16.   Non-commercial washing of vehicles or equipment,
      17.   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands,
      18.   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges,
      19.   Street wash waters,
      20.   Discharges or flows from emergency fire fighting and emergency
response activities,
      21.   Unanticipated utility repairs or failures of potable water systems,
and
      22.   Discharges from a properly operating Home Sewage Treatment Systems.
1203.04 HOME SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEMS (HSTS).
   A.   An existing HSTS may be connected to the Oakwood MS4 only if it is
determined by the City that is was legally installed and is properly
functioning.
   B.   For each existing HSTS that is non-functioning, the City will determine
whether the system requires elimination and connection to the sanitary sewer or
upgrade/replacement of the system if feasible and appropriate. For those HSTS
that cannot be feasibly eliminated, the owner shall obtain coverage under an
appropriate Ohio EPA general NPDES permit.
   C.   A new HSTS will only be approved by the City if the City determines
that it is not feasible to connect to a sanitary sewer and the owner obtains
coverage under an appropriate Ohio EPA general NPDES permit.
1203.05 COMPLAINT PROCEDURES.
   A.   Existing procedures for all types of property complaints, including
stormwater, are based on the city of Oakwood Property Maintenance Code, Chapter
17-One Administration, Enforcement, Inspections. The Ordinance and Zoning
Department procedures include mechanisms for logging of complaints by the
public, inspections by City officials and/or its authorized agent(s),
notification to responsible parties of suspected and/or actual violations,
remediation requirements, enforcement of requirements and penalties, if
remediation is not ultimately performed.
1203.06 NOTIFYING OFFICIALS.
   A.   Any person(s) witnessing violation(s) of this ordinance should contact
the Oakwood Zoning Department or the Oakwood Public Safety Department, who will
notify appropriate departments and agencies to halt the violation(s) and/or
begin the above compliant procedure(s).
CHAPTER 1204
Development of Construction and Post-Construction Site Runoff Control
1204.01   General.
1204.02   Performance Standards for Development of Site Runoff Controls.
1204.03   Site Development Plan (SDP).
1204.04   Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP).
 
 
1204.01 GENERAL.
   A.   Any person or persons proposing to develop, redevelop land, or
undertake any activity covered in Section
1201.02, unless exempted under Section
1204.01(D), shall prepare and submit to the City Engineer for his approval a
Site Development Plan (SDP) as described in Section
1204.03.
 
   B.   Based on the information provided in the Site Development Plan, the
City Engineer shall determine if the preparation and submission of a Stormwater
Management Plan (SWMP) as described in Section
1204.04 will be required. This determination will be made based on the
potential to result in erosion, runoff, or sedimentation impacts to the MS4.
   C.   A SWMP shall always be required for any of the following:
      1.   Any project requiring coverage under Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency General Permit No. OHC00003, "Authorization for Storm Water Discharges
Associated with Construction Activity Under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System," or its successor permits.
      2.   Any project involving one or more of the following earth-disturbing
activities:
         a.   Activities that require the extension of public utilities
(roadways, water mains, sanitary sewer mains, storm sewers, etc.);
         b.   Activities that will modify an existing and/or approved drainage
way, drainage structure, and/or drainage easement;
         c.   Activities that will channelize, straighten, and/or modify a
watercourse.
   D.   Any person or persons seeking approval to undertake any activity
covered in Section
1201.02  herein shall be exempted from having to prepare a SDP and a SWMP
provided they meet all of the following:
      1.   Construction takes place on one zoning lot;
      2.   The earth-disturbing activity takes place on a residentially zoned
property and does not affect more than one acre of the development site;
      3.   The site is not located within 100 feet of a sensitive natural area,
including floodways, floodplains, highly erodible lands or wetlands;
      4.   Earth-disturbing activities will not adversely affect adjacent
properties or impacts to existing stormwater facilities including, but not
limited to the general existing site drainage pattern(s), drainage structure,
drainage tiles, drainage easements, storm sewers, detention facilities,
retention facilities, infiltration facilities, drainage swales, watercourses,
etc.; and
      5.   One or both of the following:
         a.   Specifications are obtained and followed for controlling
potential off-site stormwater and erosion impacts from single residential
properties as set forth in Section
1207.03 ; or
         b.   The parcel is part of an overall development plan, which has an
approved SWMP and the developer certifies that earth-disturbing activities will
comply with said SWMP.
   E.   Exemption under Section
1204.01(D) does not exempt any person or persons from other provisions of this
Ordinance or liability from their activities.
   F.   No development, redevelopment, construction or other earth-disturbing
activities shall be undertaken except in conformance with an approved SDP, and
where required, an approved SWMP, or with the City specifications if a SDP and
SWMP are not required.
1204.02   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF SITE RUNOFF CONTROLS.
   A.   Erosion and Sediment Kept on Site. Erosion and sedimentation caused by
accelerated wind or stormwater runoff over the site due to earth-disturbing
activities shall be stabilized and confined to be within the boundaries of the
development site to the maximum extent practicable.
   B.   Discharge of Untreated Stormwater. To the maximum extent practicable,
the site shall not discharge untreated stormwater directly into a receiving
body of water during or after construction activities.
   C.   Stream and Wetland Riparian Buffers. The site owner and/or applicant
shall leave an undisturbed riparian buffer on both sides of and/or surrounding
water resources, except for crossings and other riparian area and wetland
impacts approved by the city of Oakwood Engineer and all other authorities
having jurisdiction, if applicable. Buffer width will be determined using
criteria established in the city of Oakwood Zoning Ordinance. The City Engineer
may increase the widths required based upon floodplain, topography, vegetative
cover, canopy cover, and soil types, etc if deemed necessary.
   D.   Accessibility and Easements. All permanent stormwater management
measures shall have easements sufficient to cover the facility and to provide
access for inspection and maintenance.
   E.   Best Management Practices. The City Engineer shall maintain a list of
Best Management Practices, which shall be available to an applicant and serve
as guidelines for determining whether the Performance Standards identified in
this Section have been met. Each application shall be reviewed on a case by
case basis and some may require additional and more stringent practices, while
others may have individual practices waived by the City Engineer and/or his
authorized agent(s).
1204.03 SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN (SDP).
   A.   Site Development Plan Submission, Review and Action.
      1.   Applicants are encouraged to have a pre-submission meeting with the
city of Oakwood to determine the need for, and requirements of, a SDP.
      2.   Submission of five copies of a SDP and supporting documentation as
required in Section
1204.03 (B) by an applicant seeking approval initiates the review process;
      3.   The city of Oakwood or its authorized agent(s) shall review the Site
Development Plan (SDP) and conduct a site inspection of the proposed site;
      4.   Review of the Site Development Plan (SDP) shall commence within
seven (7) working days after receipt of the submittal;
      5.   Following its review, the city of Oakwood or its authorized agent(s)
shall:
         a.   Approve the Site Development Plan (SDP); or
         b.   Conditionally approve the Site Development Plan (SDP) pending   
additional information and/or the incorporation of required changes; and/or
         c.   Require the submission of a Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP)
based on written findings of the city of Oakwood or its authorized agent(s).
   B.   Site Development Plan Requirements.
      1.   Each applicant shall provide information that details the location
of the area proposed for development, the site in relation to its general
surroundings, predevelopment site conditions, existing characteristics of the
site, and the extent of proposed earth- disturbing activities. At a minimum the
Plan shall include the following elements:
         a.   General location map that shows the area proposed for development
and pertinent adjacent areas and features;
         b.   A description of the nature and type of the earth-disturbing/
construction activity (e.g. residential, commercial, roadway, etc.);
         c.   A photocopy of the appropriate soil survey sheet found in the
USDA Soil Survey of Montgomery County with location of site identified;
         d.   A Site Plan Map that shows the location of existing features and
proposed improvements on the site including:
            i.   For sites with relief less than 50', the scale provided shall
be not smaller than 1" = 60'; for sites with greater than 50' relief, the scale
provided shall be not smaller than 1' = 40';
            ii.   Total area of the site and the area of the site that is
expected to be disturbed (i.e. grubbing, clearing, excavation, filling or
grading, including off-site borrow areas);
            iii.   Surface water locations, including springs, wetlands,
streams, lakes, water wells, etc., on or within 200 feet of the site, including
the boundaries of wetlands or stream channels and the first subsequent named
receiving water(s) the permittee intends to fill or relocate for which the
permittee is seeking approval from the Army Corps of Engineers and/or Ohio EPA;
            iv.   The general directions of surface water flow;
            v.   All improvements, including buildings, retaining walls,
0sidewalks, streets, parking lots, driveways, utilities and stormwater basins,
drainage impoundments, channels and outlets, etc.
         e.   An estimate of the impervious area and percent imperviousness
created by the earth-disturbing activity.
   C.   Review of a Site Development Plan under this section is solely for the
purpose of determining compliance with the Stormwater Management Code and does
not constitute, nor substitute for, a plan review under any other Ordinance of
the city of Oakwood.
1204.04 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN (SWMP).
   A.   Stormwater Management Plans (SWMPs) are intended to provide information
on all soil erosion, sediment and runoff control activities and Best Management
Practices (BMPs) to be used and incorporated on the site both during and after
site development. This information includes, but is not limited to, site
grading, stormwater management facilities and practices, erosion, sediment and
runoff control information, maintenance plans, and other measures that focus on
managing the effects of earth-disturbing activities that occur as a result of
site development.
   B.   Stormwater Management Plan Administration.
      1.   The applicant is encouraged to have a pre-submission meeting with
the city of Oakwood, and its authorized agent(s) if necessary.
      2.   Submission of five (5) sets of the SWMP and other supporting data
required by this ordinance to the city of Oakwood initiates the review process.
      3.   Upon submission of the SWMP, the city of Oakwood and/or its
authorized agent(s) shall complete a review of the SWMP provided that the
applicant has submitted all information required. The SWMP shall be reviewed by
the City of Oakwood and/or its authorized agent(s) to:
         a.   Verify background information furnished by the applicant and
evaluate the proposed development in relation to existing site conditions; and
         b.   Assess the SWMP in relation to the Performance Standards and
requirements of this Ordinance.
      4.   Within thirty (30) days of receiving a complete SWMP, the city of
Oakwood shall:
          a.   Approve the SWMP as submitted by the applicant; or
         b.   Conditionally approve the SWMP and require the submission of
additional and/or revised information by the applicant, in order to fully meet
the intent and standards of this Ordinance. Revisions to conditionally approved
SWMPs shall be prepared and submitted by the applicant to the city of Oakwood
for final review to ensure that the plan requirements have been fully met; or
         c.   Disapprove the SWMP.
            i.   Upon disapproval of the SWMP, the applicant shall be required
to contact the city of Oakwood and/or its authorized agent(s) within thirty
(30) days of denial to discuss the status of the project;
            ii.   If the project does not proceed, the applicant shall pay all
related fees incurred by the city to date within thirty (30) days of the
disapproval and the project file shall be closed.
            iii.   If the project does proceed, the applicant shall schedule a
review meeting with the city of Oakwood and/or its authorized agent(s) to
discuss how the SWMP will be modified to fit the requirements and standards of
this Ordinance.
      5.   Once a SWMP has been approved all fees related to the SWMP have been
paid to the city of Oakwood, the Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Permit shall be
issued.
   C.   When a SWMP is required under Sections
1204.01(C), the SWMP shall meet the requirements of a Stormwater Pollution
Prevention Plan as described in Ohio Environmental Protection Agency General
Permit No. OHC00003, "Authorization for Storm Water Discharges Associated with
Construction Activity Under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System," or its successor permits.
   
   D.   When a SWMP is required under Section
1204.01(B) but not under Section
1204.01(C), the City Engineer may reduce the requirements for a SWMP as long as
he determines that the elements that are required will ensure that earth-
disturbing activities at the site during and after development will be managed
in a manner that will not result in increased erosion and sedimentation from
the site nor result in negative impacts to water quality.
   E.   When applicable as determined by the City Engineer, the SWMP shall
incorporate the requirements of Chapter
1207, Stormwater System and Detention Facility Design. This requirement is in
addition to the requirements of Section
1204.04(C) and
1204.04(D).
 
CHAPTER 1205
Implementation and Enforcement of Construction and Post-Construction Site
Runoff Control
1205.01   General.
1205.02   Performance Standards for Implementation and Enforcement of Site
Runoff Controls.
1205.03   Construction and Post-Construction Requirements.
1205.04   Inspection and Enforcement.
 
 
1205.01 GENERAL.
   A.   The intent of this Chapter is that the site runoff controls approved
for construction and post-construction are constructed, operated and maintained
in good working order prior to final acceptance of permanent stormwater
management facilities.
   B.   During the construction activities and up to final acceptance by the
city, the developer/owner and/or contractor shall install, maintain and inspect
all construction and post-construction site runoff controls in conformance with
the approved plans, and any additional instructions provided by the City
Engineer and/or by the Zoning Inspector.
   C.   The Zoning Inspector and/or his designee or authorized agent(s) shall
ensure the implementation and enforcement during construction of both
construction and post- construction site runoff controls. The specific
procedures meeting the below requirements are on file at the city of Oakwood
Administrative Offices.
1205.02   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR IMPLEMENTATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF SITE
RUNOFF CONTROLS.
   A.   The owner/developer shall implement the SWMP as approved by the City
Engineer in all respects including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Implementation, maintenance and inspection of all temporary
stabilization practices throughout the construction period, and until final
site stabilization is achieved.
      2.   Removal of temporary measures within thirty (30) days after final
site stabilization is achieved or after the temporary measures are no longer
needed.
      3.   Installation and maintenance of all permanent runoff controls.
      4.   Establishment of all required easements for permanent runoff
controls.
      5.   Maintenance of required records.
   B.   Properties, public right-of-ways, and thoroughfares within the city of
Oakwood adjacent to the site of an earth-disturbing activity, either within or
outside the city of Oakwood, shall be protected from sediment deposition at all
times. If the protection measures fail during the course of construction
activities, the owner/developer shall cease all work and restore said measures
to good working order within three (3) days.
   C.   All inlet protection devices shall be inspected, maintained and
repaired weekly and after all significant storm events by the owner/developer
as needed to ensure proper working order throughout the course of construction
activities.
1205.03 CONSTRUCTION AND POST-CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   Earth-disturbing activities regulated under this Ordinance shall not
begin until all required city, state and federal permits and appropriate
approvals of SDP and/or SWMP have been granted to the site owner/developer.
   B.   The applicant is responsible for carrying out all provisions of the
approved SDP and/or SWMP and for meeting all the standards and requirements of
this Ordinance.
   C.   Internal Inspections By Owner/Developer
      1.   For sites under construction, all controls on the site shall be
inspected at least once every seven (7) calendar days and within twenty-four
(24) hours after any storm event greater than three-quarters of an inch (0.75")
of rain per twenty-four (24) hour period. The site owner and/or applicant shall
assign qualified inspection personnel experienced in the installation and
maintenance of erosion and runoff controls to conduct these inspections to
ensure that all stormwater control practices are functional, that all
provisions of the SWMP and this regulation are being met, and whether
additional control measures are required;
      2.   As a post construction measure, the site owner/developer shall
maintain for three (3) years following the final stabilization of the site and
final inspection conducted by a City official or its authorized agent(s), a
record summarizing inspections, names(s) and qualifications of personnel making
the inspections, the date(s) of inspections, major observations relating to the
implementation of the SWMP and a certification as to whether the site is in
compliance with the SWMP and identify any incidents of non-compliance. A copy
of these records shall be provided to the city of Oakwood on a quarterly basis.
      3.   If the city of Oakwood deems, via inspections, that any stormwater
control practice is not functional, the site owner/developer may be required to
install additional erosion and runoff controls, assign other inspection
personnel and/or cease all other work until the City accepts the stormwater
control practices.
1205.04 INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   A.   The city of Oakwood shall have the right and authority to inspect, at
any reasonable time and without prior notice, all site runoff controls, whether
temporary or permanent. Inspections under this Section in no way relieve the
owner/developer of the inspections required by them under the SWMP.
      1.   During construction, and until final acceptance by the city of
Oakwood, the City Engineer and/or his designee or authorized agent(s) shall
have primary responsibility for City inspections and for enforcement of this
Ordinance as he deems necessary.
       2.   After final acceptance by the city of Oakwood, the City Zoning
Inspector and/or his designee or authorized agent(s) shall have primary
responsibility for City inspections and for enforcement of this Ordinance as he
deems necessary.
   B.   Enforcement.
      1.   All development sites are subject to inspections by the city of
Oakwood and/or its authorized agent(s) under Section 
1205.04 (A) to ensure compliance with the approved SDP and/or SWMP.
      2.   After each inspection a status report shall be prepared and placed
on file at the City offices or with its authorized agent(s).
      3.   If it is found that the operations are being conducted in violation
of the approved SDP and SWMP, a stop-work order may be issued until the
identified violations cease and are corrected.
      4.   After the issuance of a stop-work order provided for above, but
before the imposition of any fines, the applicant shall have the opportunity to
request a meeting with the city of Oakwood and/or its authorized agent(s) to
show cause why work should not be stopped. A meeting shall be scheduled at the
time that a request for such a meeting is made to the city of Oakwood.
      5.   Following the issuance of a stop-work order, the city of Oakwood
and/or its authorized agent(s) shall determine if and when the development may
proceed.
      6.   If the applicant ceases work and vacates the site, the entire site
shall be stabilized by the applicant and inspected by the city of Oakwood and/
or its authorized agent(s) to determine that adequate stabilization is
achieved.
      7.   Any determination by the city of Oakwood or its authorized agent(s)
pursuant to this section is a final order for purposes of judicial review.
   C.   Complaints.
      1.   The city of Oakwood or its authorized agent(s) shall investigate any
complaint related to earth-disturbing activities covered by this Ordinance.
CHAPTER 1206
Operation and Maintenance of Permanent Stormwater Management Controls
1206.01   General.
1206.02   Ownership and Maintenance of Stormwater Management Facilities.
 
 
1206.01 GENERAL.
   A.   The intent of this Chapter of the Stormwater Management Code is to
ensure the long- term maintenance and functionality of all permanent stormwater
management controls after construction is complete and the post-construction
stormwater management controls have been accepted by the city of Oakwood.
1206.02   OWNERSHIP AND MAINTENANCE OF PERMANENT STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
FACILITIES.
   A.   In cases where permanent stormwater management facilities are proposed
on single private properties, the city of Oakwood and/or its authorized agent
(s) shall approve an inspection and maintenance agreement. This agreement shall
bind all current and subsequent owners and tenants of land served by the
permanent stormwater management facilities;
   B.   In the case of proposed industrial, commercial and/or residential
subdivisions, inspection and maintenance agreements shall be approved before
the city of Oakwood accepts the final plat of the proposed development. This
agreement shall bind all current and subsequent owners and tenants of land
served by the permanent stormwater facilities;
   C.   All inspection and maintenance agreements shall do the following:
      1.   Designate the party(ies) responsible for the maintenance of all
permanent stormwater management facilities and practices including mowing,
landscaping, debris pick-up, and to ensure all inlet and outlet structures are
free of obstructions and in good repair;
         a.   This includes, but is not limited to an individual property
owner, a tenant, a homeowner association, a condo association, etc. Unless
otherwise approved by the city of Oakwood, there shall be an entity of common
ownership (e.g. Land/Homeowner's Association) within a proposed subdivision.
Each parcel sold in the proposed subdivision shall require continued membership
in the Land/Homeowners Association, until dissolved, at which time the
individual property owners shall be held responsible for the ownership and
maintenance of stormwater management facilities.
      2.   Allow approved authorized alterations of all permanent stormwater
management facilities provided that such alterations are designed by a
professional engineer and are submitted to the city of Oakwood and/or its
authorized agent(s) for review and approval.
      3.   Provide adequate access to all stormwater management facilities for
inspection by the city of Oakwood and/or its authorized agent(s) and corrective
actions by the owner.
   D.   In the case of subdivisions, all permanent stormwater management
facility easements shall be included on the final plat, prior to approval by
the city of Oakwood, and a reference shall be made to the entity or individual
(s) responsible for their maintenance;
   E.   The owner/developer shall submit five (5) sets of as-built drawings of
all stormwater management facilities and improvements to the city of Oakwood.
   F.   The following conditions shall apply to all drainage easements:
      1.   Easements shall be approved by the city of Oakwood and/or its
authorized agent(s) prior to recording, or in the case of subdivisions prior to
approval of the final plat and shall be recorded with said plat;
      2.   Unless otherwise required or approved by the city of Oakwood and/or
its authorized agent(s) drainage easements shall have a width no less than the
following:
         a.   A storm sewer easement minimum width shall be the greater of
twelve (12) feet or as determined by the total of the outside diameter of the
pipe, plus three (3) feet, plus one (1) foot of width for every one (1) foot of
depth over the top of the pipe;
         b.   A conveyance channel easement minimum width shall be determined
by the total top width of the channel plus five (5) feet on each side of the
channel;
         c.   A detention, retention and/or infiltration basin easement minimum
width shall be determined by the total top width of the structure, plus the
width of any section of berm constructed in fill, plus ten (10) feet on each
side of the structure;
         d.   Where an underground type of detention, retention and/or
infiltration system is used, the easement minimum width shall be determined by
the total of the outside to outside width of the structure, plus three (3)
feet, plus one (1) foot of width for every one (1) foot of depth from the
ground surface to the bottom of the structure.
      3.   Unless otherwise required or approved by the city and/or its
authorized agent(s), permanent stormwater management facilities, including
basins, ponds or other retention/detention/infiltration practices, shall be on
separate lots held and maintained by an entity of common ownership (Land/
Homeowners Association) or on individually owned private property; and
       4.   Those lots that contain and/or are crossed by a drainage easement
shall have the following restriction:
         a.   "Any lot area reserved for drainage purposes, shall at all times
be kept free of any obstructions to the flow of water. No improvements,
structures or modifications within the identified drainage easement area will
be allowed without the approval of the city of Oakwood's Engineer. Maintenance
of the drainage easement area, stormwater management control facility(ies), and
drainage areas shall be the responsibility of the individual owner(s) of the
lot or Land/Homeowners Association, whichever is applicable, on which these
facilities and/or drainage areas are located."
CHAPTER 1207
Stormwater System and Detention Facility Design
1207.01   Purpose and Intent.
1207.02   Conventional Retention/Detention Facility Design.
1207.03   Single Residential Property Retention/Detention Facility Design.
1207.04   Stormwater Quality Control.
1207.05   Storm Sewer System Design.
1207.06   Exemptions.
 
 
1207.01 INTENT AND SCOPE.
   The intent and scope of this Ordinance is to provide the city of Oakwood
requirements for the design of stormwater systems and their components
including retention/detention facilities for new or re-development projects.
   This stormwater ordinance provides guidance for conforming with the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Phase II Stormwater Program as
required and regulated by the city of Oakwood and the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency (Ohio EPA).
1207.02 CONVENTIONAL RETENTION/DETENTION FACILITY DESIGN.
   A.   Design of stormwater controls for storage volume and runoff rate for
all sites, with the exception of those exempted on single residential
properties under the provisions of Section
1207.03, shall be provided by a civil engineer licensed by the State of Ohio
and having substantial experience in drainage matters, who shall determine that
on-site drainage facilities will be adequate to accommodate surface and storm
drainage from water falling upon, or passing across, the land according to the
following requirements:
      1.   All proposed land uses and developments, which increase the runoff
rate and/or volume, shall be required to control the rate of runoff discharging
from the site.
      2.   The United States Department of Agriculture, Conservation
Engineering Division of the Natural Resources Conservation Service, "Urban
Hydrology for Small Watersheds," Technical Release No. 55, June 1986 or the
most current edition, shall be the method used by the applicant to determine
the changes in runoff rates and volumes for the proposed development, unless an
alternate method is approved in advance by the City Engineer.
       3.   The type and amount of runoff control required for the site shall
be as determined using the engineering standards and procedures maintained by
the City Engineer.
      4.   Detailed construction plans for all measures to control runoff rate
and/or volume shall be submitted to, and approved by, the City Engineer or his
designee prior to commencing construction.
1207.03   SINGLE RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY RETENTION/DETENTION FACILITY DESIGN.
   A.   A written stormwater runoff opinion shall be required for all new or
redevelopment projects on single residential properties except in the following
situations:
      1.   If the proposed buildings or improvements are on a property where a
SDP is required under
1204.01  herein.
      2.   If the proposed buildings or improvements will create a net increase
in the impervious surface area on the lot of less than 350 square feet. In this
case, no retention or detention facilities are required.
      3.   If the proposed buildings or improvements are to be located upon an
area that has an existing impervious surface. Provided, however, that this
exception shall not apply and the drainage opinion must still be given if the
entire surface of the site is impervious or if an existing building or
improvement on the site is to be torn down completely in order to make room for
the new improvements.
      4.   If the site is to be limited to particular buildings or improvements
that do not exceed 625 sq. ft. for any lot that is 40,000 sq. ft. or less, or
1,000 sq. ft. for any lot that exceeds 40,000 sq. ft. in size. Provided,
however, that in such event an on-site retention/detention facility, designed
in accordance with the City's specifications to accommodate drainage for up to
625 or 1,000 sq. ft., as applicable based on the total lot size, shall be
installed by the property owner.
      5.   If a sufficient amount of impervious surface has been removed from
the lot and not replaced to equal or exceed the new impervious surface
resulting from the proposed buildings or improvements. Any such surface removed
may be counted only one time as an offset against subsequent buildings or
improvements.
      6.   If a sufficient amount of impervious surface has been removed from
the lot and not replaced thereby reducing the new impervious surface to the 625
or 1,000 sq. ft. area, whichever is applicable, based on lot size as described
in subparagraph "4" above. Provided, however, that in such event an on-site
retention/detention facility, designed in accordance with the City's
specifications to accommodate drainage for up to 625 or 1,000 sq. ft., as
applicable based on the total lot size, shall be installed by the property
owner. Any such impervious surface removed may be counted only one time as an
offset against subsequent buildings or improvements.
   B.   Where the written stormwater opinion is required, it shall be prepared
and signed by a civil engineer licensed by the State of Ohio and having
substantial experience in drainage matters. The opinion shall state whether or
not on-site drainage facilities will be adequate to accommodate surface and
storm drainage from water falling upon the land or passing across it and
whether the site runoff rate or volume will increase as a result of a 10-year,
24-hour rainfall yielding 4 inches of rain. This opinion shall assume that the
proposed buildings or other improvements creating the greatest possible run-off
problem has been added to the property, and otherwise shall be based on site
conditions existing on the date of the opinion.
   C.   If the stormwater runoff opinion states that the buildings or
improvements will cause an increase in the runoff rate and/or volume, a
drainage plan will be required. The drainage plan shall show the stormwater
retention/detention facilities to be added to the site to prevent the post-
development runoff from exceeding the pre-development runoff. The plan shall
also show the manner in which surface and storm drainage from that land will be
channeled into the drainage system of the City.
   D.   All such opinions and drainage plans must be approved by the City
Engineer and/or his designated agent(s).
1207.04 STORMWATER QUALITY CONTROL.
   A.   All proposed land uses and developments that disturb one acre or more
or land shall incorporate post-construction Best Management Practices (BMPs)
for control of stormwater quality.
      1.   A list of stormwater quality BMPs approved for use in the city of
Oakwood shall be maintained by the City Engineer.
      2.   Alternative stormwater quality BMPs may be proposed by the owner/
developer for review and approval by the city of Oakwood.
      3.   The approved stormwater quality BMPs shall be incorporated into the
SDP required under Section
1204.03  and the SWMP required under Section
1204.04 .
   B.   All proposed land uses and developments, which disturb five acres or
more of land shall design one or more BMPs to detain and treat a water quality
volume equivalent to the volume of runoff from a 0.75-inch rainfall.
      1.   Procedures for determining water quality volume and a list of
stormwater quality BMPs approved for use in the city of Oakwood shall be
maintained by the City Engineer.
      2.   Alternative stormwater quality BMPs may be proposed by the owner/
developer for review and approval by the city of Oakwood.
      3.   The approved stormwater quality BMPs shall be incorporated into the
SDP required under Section
1204.03  and the SWMP required under Section 
1204.04 .
   
1207.05 STORM SEWER SYSTEM DESIGN.
   A.   All street curb and gutters, closed pipes, manholes, culverts and open
channels/drainage ways used to collect and convey water through a site shall be
classified as a storm sewer system.
   B.   All proposed storm sewer system elements shall be designed by a
professional engineer registered in the State of Ohio in accordance with the
city of Oakwood design standards
as maintained by the City Engineer.
   C.   All proposed storm sewer system elements shall be shown on the SDP
required under Section
1204.03 and the SWMP required under Section
1204.04.
1207.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   A.   Stormwater Control Facilities. All stormwater control facilities shall
be contained within the proposed development. Exceptions to requiring that
permanent runoff control be located on the site may be considered by the City
of Oakwood's Planning Commission and the authorized agent(s) provided the
applicant can prove that:
      1.   The intent and standards of this Ordinance for runoff control can be
best achieved by the utilization of off-site stormwater control facilities;
      2.   Runoff from the site can be conveyed to off-site stormwater
facilities in a manner and by means, which satisfies or surpasses the standards
of this Ordinance;
      3.   The applicant has ownership of or the right to use the off-site
facility in question.
      4.   Easements meeting the conditions of Section
1206.02(F) are provided for off-site stormwater facilities where required by
the city of Oakwood.
      5.   An inspection and maintenance agreement is provided that meets the
requirements of Section
1206.02.
CHAPTER 1208
Violations and Penalties.
1208.01   Violations.
1208.02   Penalties.
1208.03   Penalties Subsequent to Issuance of Stop-Work Order.
1208.04   Performance Liability.
1208.05   No Release from other Requirements.
1208.06   Effective Date and Validity.
 
 
1208.01 VIOLATIONS.
   Any violation of this ordinance constitutes a public nuisance. No person
shall violate or cause or knowingly permit to be violated any of the provisions
of this Ordinance, or fail to comply with any of its provisions or with any
lawful requirements of any public authority made pursuant to it, or knowingly
use or cause or permit the use of any lands in violation of this Ordinance or
in violation of any approval permit granted under this Ordinance.
1208.02 PENALTIES.
   A.   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed to be committed each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City
officials and/or its authorized agent(s) from taking such other lawful action
as necessary to prevent or remedy any violation;
   B.   Upon notice from the city of Oakwood and/or its authorized agent(s),
that work is being done contrary to this Ordinance, and where applicable, the
approved Stormwater Management Plan, such work shall immediately stop. Such
notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the applicant, and shall state
the conditions under which such work may resume; provided, however, in
instances where immediate action is deemed necessary for the public safety or
the public interest, the city of Oakwood and/or its authorized agent(s) may
require that work be stopped upon verbal order pending issuance of the written
order. A stop work order remains in effect until lifted by the city of Oakwood
and/or its authorized agent(s).
1208.03 PENALTIES SUBSEQUENT TO ISSUANCE OF STOP-WORK ORDER.
   A.   Subsequent to the issuance of a stop-work order, one or more of the
following penalties may be imposed:
      1.   All non-compliant earth-disturbing activities are subject to
applicable penalties (including fines) of the city of Oakwood;
       2.   The city of Oakwood and/or its authorized agent(s), on behalf of
the city of Oakwood, may enter the site and make any modifications necessary to
correct the situation(s) involving excessive erosion or sedimentation, and
invoice the owner for actual costs incurred;
      3.   The city of Oakwood and/or its authorized agent(s) may request the
legal representative of the city of Oakwood to seek an injunction or other
appropriate relief to abate excessive erosion or sedimentation and secure
compliance with this Ordinance. In granting such relief, the court may order
the construction of sediment control improvements and/or the implementation of
other control measures and/or fines or any other relief the court determines.
The owner shall be invoiced for actual costs incurred by the city and/or its
authorized agent(s).
   B.   The imposition of any other penalties provided herein shall not
preclude the city of Oakwood, from instituting an appropriate action or
proceeding in a Court of proper jurisdiction to prevent an unlawful
development, or to restrain, correct, or abate a violation, or to require
compliance with the provisions of this regulation or other applicable laws,
ordinances, rules, or regulations, or the orders of the authorized agent(s).
1208.04 PERFORMANCE LIABILITY.
   No provision of this Ordinance shall limit, increase or otherwise affect the
liabilities of the applicant nor impose any liability upon the city of Oakwood
not otherwise imposed by law.
1208.05 NO RELEASE FROM OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   No condition of this permit shall release the applicant from any
responsibility or requirements under other federal, state, or local
environmental regulations. If requirements vary, the most restrictive
requirement shall prevail.
1208.06 EFFECTIVE DATE AND VALIDITY.
   This Ordinance shall take effect from and after the earliest period allowed
by law. If any section, subsection, paragraph, clause, phrase, or provision of
this Ordinance is adjudged invalid or held unconstitutional, such a decision
shall not affect or void any of the remaining portions of this Ordinance.
(Ord. 4670, enacted 5/4/09, effective 6/4/09)
CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF OAKWOOD
PART THIRTEEN - BUILDING CODE
TITLE ONE - Standards Adopted.
      Chapter
1301 .Adoption, Administration, General Matters.
      Chapter
1302 .Permits.
      Chapter
1303 .Building Relocation and Demolition.
      Chapter
1304 .One, Two and Three-Family Dwelling Code.
TITLE FIVE - Local Provisions.
      Chapter
1321 .Swimming and Other Pools.
      Chapter
1322 .Moving of Buildings.
      Chapter
1325 .Numbering Buildings.
      Chapter
1329 .Plumbers.
      Chapter
1331 .Unreasonable Noises in Construction.
      Chapter
1333 .Minimum Floor Area.
      Chapter
1335 .(Reserved for possible future use).
      Chapter
1337 .Air Conditioning Systems.
      Chapter
1339 .Driveways.
      Chapter
1341 .Sidewalks.
      Chapter
1343 .Traffic Studies.
      Chapter
1345 .Fences.
 
 
TITLE ONE - Standards Adopted.
      Chapter
1301 .Adoption, Administration, General Matters.
      Chapter
1302 .Permits.
      Chapter
1303 .Building Relocation and Demolition.
      Chapter
1304 .One, Two and Three-Family Dwelling Code.
CHAPTER 1301
ADOPTION, ADMINISTRATION, GENERAL MATTERS
1301.01   Adoption of Local Building Code for One, Two and Three-Family
Dwellings; Reference to State Statutes and Ohio Building Code as being Separate
Code Applicable to all other Construction; Standard of Work.
1301.02   Two Separate Building Officials.
1301.03   Fees.
1301.04   Time Limits.
1301.05   File and Distribution of Copies.
1301.06   Number of Plans.
1301.07   Grading and Utility Plans and Topographical Surveys under the City
One, Two and Three-Family Dwelling Code.
1301.08   Inspection and Approval.
1301.09   Sump Pump.
1301.10   Retaining Walls.
1301.11   Duty to Repair Damage to Streets; Bond as Security.
1301.12   Indemnification and Insurance regarding Demolition Damage or Injury
to Persons or Property on a Public Street, Sidewalk or right-of-way.
1301.13   Violations and Equitable Remedies.
1301.14   Conflict of Laws.
1301.15   Penalties.
 
 
1301.01 ADOPTION OF LOCAL BUILDING CODE FOR ONE, TWO AND THREE FAMILY
DWELLINGS; REFERENCE TO STATE STATUTES AND OHIO BUILDING CODE AS BEING SEPARATE
CODE APPLICABLE TO ALL OTHER CONSTRUCTION; STANDARD OF WORK.
   A.   The One, Two and Three Family Dwelling Code for this city (C123DC) is
hereby adopted as set forth in Chapters
1301 ,
1302 ,
1303  and
1304  of the Codified Ordinances. It is applicable to one, two and three family
dwelling houses which have not been constructed or erected as industrialized
units as referred to in 3781.06 and 3781.10 O.R.C. The material in Chapter
1304  incorporates by reference the 2004 edition of the Ohio Residential Code
for One, Two and Three Family Dwelling Code, with certain amendments as set
forth in that Chapter
1304  as the C123DC. The 2004 edition of the Ohio Residential Code for One, Two
and Three Family Dwellings is based on the International One, Two and Three
Family Dwelling Code (2003 Edition) as amended by the Ohio Building Officials
Association.
   B.   The construction, erection, repair, maintenance or alteration of, or
addition to, any building other than one subject to C123DC shall be governed by
the 2002 edition of the Ohio Building Code (OBC). The 2002 OBC includes
requirements as set forth in the Building Officials and Code Administration
(BOCA) National Building Code, International Building Code, Standard Building
Code, Uniform Building Code, International Plumbing Code, International
Mechanical Code, Code for the Installation of Heat-Producing Appliances,
Standard Gas Code, Standard Mechanical Code, Uniform Mechanical Code and the
National Electrical Code Control of such matters as to the buildings subject to
the OBC has been declared to be, for the most part, a matter of statewide
concern governed by the general laws in the above-cited chapters of the O.R.C.
Accordingly, except in limited situations and circumstances, the City of
Oakwood may not enact any legislation in conflict with those chapters of the
O.R.C. or with the OBC or any other rules issued by the Ohio Board of Building
Standards.
   C.   In addition to compliance with the technical regulations of the codes
referred to in A and B above, all work subject to either of those codes shall
be performed in a workmanlike manner.
1301.02 TWO SEPARATE BUILDING OFFICIALS.
   The City Manager or his designee shall serve as the Building Official for
the one, two and three family dwelling units covered by Chapter
1304  of the Codified Ordinances. It shall be the duty of the Building Official
to manage the enforcement of that building code and any regulations issued
thereunder. For buildings subject to the OBC, the Oakwood Building Official
shall be the same person who serves as Building Official in whatever certified
building department contractually serves the City of Oakwood for review,
inspection and enforcement of the building code.
1301.03 FEES.
   As part of the schedule of fees to be established under Chapter
153  of the Administrative Code of this city, the City Manager shall have
authority to set the fees for all matters subject to the Ohio Building Code and
also to set the fees for all matters under the residential building code
applicable to one, two and three family dwellings (i.e., the C123DC).
1301.04 TIME LIMITS.
   In lieu of any reference to time limits governing approval of plans in the
OBC, the following shall govern. The approval of plans or drawings, and
specifications or data in accordance with the rules of the OBC is invalid if
construction, erection, alteration or other work on the building has not
commenced within 180 days of the approval of the plans, drawings or
specifications.
   A.   One extension may be granted for an additional 180 day period if
requested by the owner at least ten days in advance of the expiration date of
the permit and upon payment of the established fee.
   B.   If, in the course of construction, work is delayed or suspended for
more than 90 days, the approval of plans or drawings and specifications or data
is invalid. Two extensions may be granted for 90 days each if requested by the
owner at least ten days in advance of the expiration of the permit and upon
payment of the established fee for each extension.
 
1301.05 FILE AND DISTRIBUTION OF COPIES.
   One copy of this Code and its accompanying Building Codes shall be placed on
file with the Clerk of Council for inspection by the public. Additional copies
will be made available to the public at cost by the Building Official.
1301.06 NUMBER OF PLANS.
   The actual number of plans required to be submitted to the City shall be in
accordance with the policy of the Building Official, and shall adhere to the
following:
   A.   One set of plans which has been approved by the Building Official shall
be retained for permanent city records for the period required for the
retention of public records.
   B.   One set of plans which has been approved shall be returned to the owner
and shall be kept at the site of the work and shall be available for reference
by the Building Official at all times during working hours while such work is
in progress. The Building Official shall stamp or endorse additional sets of
plans which have been approved when so requested by the owner or his or her
agent.
1301.07 GRADING AND UTILITY PLANS AND TOPOGRAPHICAL SURVEYS UNDER THE CITY ONE,
TWO AND THREE-FAMILY DWELLING CODE.
   Under the C123DC, when the Building Official or City Engineer deems it
necessary because of the contour of the particular property involved or of the
adjoining land, he or she may require that there shall be submitted with the
application for a building permit a topographical survey and a grading and
utility plan. In the event that the grading and utility plan and the
topographical survey, together with the other documents and information
submitted in connection with the application for such a building permit, do not
conform to good engineering practice, the application for the permit shall be
denied.
1301.08 INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   When the installation, extension, alteration or repair of an elevator,
moving stairway, mechanical equipment, refrigeration, air conditioning or
ventilating apparatus, plumbing, gas piping, electrical wiring, heating system
or any other equipment is specifically controlled by the provisions of the OBC
or the C123DC, it shall be unlawful to use such equipment prior to an
authorized inspection, as provided in the appropriate Code, and approved by the
Building Official or his agent.
1301.09 SUMP PUMP.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, a permit is required for
the installation of a sump pump for the purpose of disposing of ground water
from a structure. The discharge of a sump pump shall be so constructed so that
the discharge of water will not run onto or across public streets, sidewalks,
or be discharged into any sanitary sewers. The fees for said permits shall be
in accordance with fee schedules established by the City Manager.
 
1301.10 RETAINING WALLS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this ordinance, a permit is required
for the installation, construction or alteration of a retaining wall. Design
for retaining walls over four (4) feet in height shall be certified by a
registered engineer or architect or as approved by the Building Official.
1301.11 DUTY TO REPAIR DAMAGE TO STREETS; BOND AS SECURITY.
   A.   General:
      1.   To provide assurance that any damage to the public streets,
thoroughfares, or rights-of-way including vegetation, improvements of any type
and utilities therein caused by agents, employees, equipment, or activities of
the contractor or his subcontractors will be repaired at no cost to the City,
the contractor shall enter into a written agreement (prior to issuance of a
building or demolition permit) whereby the contractor agrees to repair any such
damage. The form of the contract shall be satisfactory to the City Attorney.
      2.   As security for performance of the contract, the contractor shall
enter into a performance bond with a surety company approved by the city and
deliver that bond to the city prior to beginning any work authorized by said
permit. In lieu of such a surety bond, the contractor may deliver to the city
an irrevocable letter of credit or cash deposit, and any such form of surety is
included within the meaning of the word "bond." The form of such bond shall be
satisfactory to the City Attorney.
      3.   The contractor shall be obligated under this Code and the contract
to repair all damage to any public street, thoroughfare, or right-of-way
including vegetation, improvements of any type (including repairing and
replacing adjacent walls thereto) and utilities therein, caused by agents,
employees, equipment, or activities of the contractor or his subcontractor
whether or not such damage was the result of negligence on the part of the
contractor, subcontractors, or their agents or employees.
      4.   With regard to an application for a demolition permit, this Code and
the written agreement of the demolition contractor shall require that
contractor supply and complete such material and work as may be necessary to
shut off water and sewer utility service to the site, and shall require that
contractor repair all damage caused to adjacent lots and improvements thereon
as caused by agents, employees, equipment, or activities of the demolition
contractor or his subcontractors, whether or not such damage was the result of
negligence on the part of the contractor, subcontractors, or their agents or
employees. (See also Chapter
1303  Building Relocation and Demolition.)
 
   B.   Conditions:
      1.   The bond with regard to a building permit shall be in an amount
equal to 15% of the estimated cost of the original job contract but in no case
more than $1,000.00. With regard to a demolition permit, the bond shall be in
an amount equal to 25% of the estimated cost of the original job contract, but
in no case less than $25,000.00. The Building Official shall have authority to
waive or reduce the requirements of a demolition bond with regard to small
buildings such as sheds and garages and also based on location of the buildings
to be demolished, or the lack of utilities therein.
      2.   The bond shall be payable to the order of the City of Oakwood.
   C.   Notice of Damage:
   Written notice to the contractor, surety company, or any owner of the land
involved of any damage requiring repair will be given by the city within forty-
five (45) days after final inspection under the building permit. If no notice
is given, the bond shall expire automatically at the end of that period of
time.
   D.   Time for Performance:
   Repairs by the contractor of all such damage shall be completed within one
month after notice by the city to the contractor, surety company, or any owner.
This time limitation is subject to reasonable delays caused by strikes, wars,
public emergencies, acts of God, or other events beyond the contractor's
reasonable control.
   E.   Remedy:
   If the necessary repairs are not completed by the contractor within this
one-month period, the city may exercise its rights under the bond and may use
the proceeds of the bond to defray cost of the city in making those repairs, or
contracting to have them made, without necessity of any court order.
1301.12 INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE REGARDING DEMOLITION DAMAGE OR INJURY TO
PERSONS OR PROPERTY ON A PUBLIC STREET, SIDEWALK OR RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Every demolition contractor or one who obtains a permit for demolition work
shall be obligated under this paragraph to indemnify and hold the city harmless
from any and all claim, demand, lawsuit or judgment in favor of any person
whomsoever, arising out of the exercise of any privilege granted by the
demolition permit and based upon property damage or personal injury, or both,
to persons or property on a public street, sidewalk or right-of-way. Further,
such indemnification and hold harmless obligation shall protect the city from
any expense that might otherwise be incurred by the city by reason of any such
claim, demand, lawsuit or judgment, and shall require that the demolition
contractor or permit applicant assume responsibility for and defend any lawsuit
which may arise therefrom. Any person granted such a demolition permit, whether
or not that person is in the business of acting as a demolition contractor,
shall be bound by the terms of this requirement without further contract or
agreement. Each applicant for a demolition permit shall procure and furnish
satisfactory evidence that such applicant has and maintains in full force and
effect a policy of liability insurance from any one accident, and not less than
seventy-five thousand dollars ($75,000.00) for such property damage from any
one accident, so as to provide to the demolition permit holder and to the city
protection as an insured party against any such claim, demand, lawsuit or
judgment. The requirements of such insurance may be waived or reduced by the
Building Official in the same manner and on the basis of the same factors set
forth in Subsection B of Section
1301.11  (See also Chapter
1303  Building Relocation and Demolition.)
1301.13 VIOLATIONS AND EQUITABLE REMEDIES.
   A.   No person shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, improve,
remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building
regulated by this Code in violation of the regulations of this Code or any
approved amendment or supplement thereto.
   B.   In the event any building is or is proposed to be erected, constructed,
enlarged, altered, repaired, improved, removed, converted, demolished,
equipped, used, occupied or maintained in violation of this Code or any
amendment or supplement thereto, the Building Official or the City Attorney or
any owner of adjacent property who would be specifically damaged by such
violation may institute injunctive, mandamus, abatement or any other
appropriate actions or proceedings, in addition to other remedies provided by
law, in order to prevent, enjoin, abate, or remove such unlawful erection,
construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, improvement, conversion, use or
occupancy.
1301.14 CONFLICT OF LAWS.
   In the event of any conflict between the requirements of this Code and those
requirements of any other codes, ordinances or regulations adopted by the city,
that requirement which establishes the higher or more strict standard shall
prevail. This principle shall also apply to conflicts, if any, between the
typical language in any portion of Part Thirteen of the Codified Ordinances of
this City (dealing with the Building Code) and the Ohio Residential Code
adopted in Chapter
1304  or the Ohio Building Code (OBC) which has also been adopted by reference
as part of the Building Code of this City.
1301.15 PENALTIES.
   Whoever violates any regulation or provision of the OBC or the C123DC or any
amendment, revision or attachment thereto, shall be deemed to be guilty of a
third degree misdemeanor. A separate offense may be deemed committed each and
every day during or on which an alleged construction, erection, repair or
maintenance occurs or continues.
   The provisions of this Chapter
1302  shall apply under both the C123DC and the OBC, except to the extent that
the City may be precluded by law from revising the OBC provisions.
Legislative History: Ord. 4292, passed 5/1/95; Ord. 4419, passed 8/10/98 and
which
CHAPTER 1302
PERMITS
1302.01   Application for Permit.
1302.02   Permit Approval, Revocation and Conditions.
1302.03   Annual Permit.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
For Ohio Building Code (OBC) see Ohio Administrative Code 4101:2 Edition of
Ohio Residential Code for One, Two and Three Family Dwellings.
 
 
1302.01 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A.   When Permit is Required:
   It shall be unlawful to construct, alter, enlarge, repair, move, remove, or
demolish any building or structure, or change the occupancy thereof from one
use or use group to another, or to install, alter, repair, remove, correct or
replace any equipment for which provision is made or the installation of which
is regulated by this Code, without first filing an application with the
Building Official in writing and obtaining the required permit therefore;
provided, however, that ordinary repairs as defined in Subsection U of Section
1302.01 and that do not involve any violation of the Code shall be exempt from
this provision. Except as specifically otherwise authorized, an application for
a permit for any work requiring a permit shall be submitted to and approved by
the Building Official before any contract for installation and/or construction
of the proposed work has been awarded, unless such award is made contingent
upon the approval and issuance of the permit.
   B.   Emergency Repairs:
   Where equipment replacements and repairs must be performed in an emergency
situation, the permit application shall be submitted within the next working
business day to the Building Official.
   C.   Form of Permit Application:
   Each application for a permit shall be submitted in such a form as the
Building Official may prescribe. In any event, the application must contain a
representation by the applicant that every aspect of the work that does not
conform to the description in the permit application will be torn down,
removed, or otherwise corrected within a reasonable time after written
notification from the Building Official, or his or her designate, to do so.
   D.   By Whom Application is Made:
   Except as provided in Subsection E immediately below in this Section
1302.01, an application for a permit shall be made by the owner or lessee of a
property concerned, if the owner or lessee is to perform the work requiring a
permit. No person intending to perform any work on behalf of an owner or lessee
of property, or under contract or agreement with an owner or lessee to do so,
shall perform any such work unless that person has submitted an application for
any required permit and until the permit has been issued solely in the name of
such person as the permit holder. Accordingly, if an owner or lessee of
property intends to use a third person contract to perform work requiring a
permit, that permit must be issued to the third person contractor and not to
the owner or lessee. The full names and addresses of the owner, any lessee, and
any applicant if other than the owner or lessee, and of the responsible
officers of owner and lessee if a corporate body or unincorporated association
shall be stated in the application. All applicants for permits shall be duly
qualified under applicable law.
   E.   Home Owners Exception:
   The provisions of Subsection D above in this Section
1302.01 shall not be interpreted to require that the owner of a single-family
dwelling shall be licensed to perform work on that owner's residence. All such
work shall be done in conformity with the provisions of this Code and rules or
regulations promulgated thereunder and no work shall be done unless all
permits, inspections, and approvals required by this Code are secured.
   F.   Description of Work:
   The application for a permit shall contain a general description of the
proposed work, its location, the use and occupancy of all parts of the building
or structure, the estimated cost of the proposed work and such additional
information as may be required by the Building Official, including but not
restricted to the project plans and specifications, plot plans, stormwater
drainage plan (when required), and such other information as may be required
elsewhere in this Code, all of which shall be submitted pursuant to Subsection
D of Section
1302.01. All charges for transportation of such information accompanying the
application shall be borne by the applicant for the permit.
   G.   Verification of Information:
   All facts in the application shall be subject to affirmation or oath. If, in
the judgment of the Building Official, any part or all of the data or
application is incorrect (including but not limited to the estimated cost), he
or she shall have the right, as a condition precedent to the issuance of the
permit, to have said data or application verified and/or amended either by the
Building Official or by others appointed by him or her and when so authorized
the cost of such verifications and/or amendment shall be paid by the applicant.
   H.   Acting on Applications:
   All applications for permits shall be dated on receipt by the Building
Official and examined, within a reasonable time after filing, in order of their
receipt, and no application shall be acted on out of its regular order unless
the work involved is of a complex character which requires prolonged
examination. Applications which are returned without action because of being
incomplete or because of violations of some of the provisions of this Code
shall be taken in order as of the date of resubmission.
   I.   Plans and Specifications:
   The plans and specifications submitted with the application for a permit
shall be lettered, giving the name and address of the owner of the building,
the purpose for which the building or structure is to be used, its location,
and the name, address and telephone number of the architect, engineer, or other
person by whom the plans and specifications were prepared. Electronic media
documents are permitted to be submitted when approved by the Building Official.
When quality of materials is essential for conformity to the Code, specific
information shall be given to establish such quality, and in no case shall the
Code be cited or the term "legal" or its equivalent be used as a substitute for
specific information.
   J.   Drawings:
   The drawings to be filed for buildings or structures shall consist of a plot
plan; a foundation and footing plan, basement or cellar plan; plans of the
upper floors and roof; all elevation sections; and such additional drawings as
may be necessary to illustrate fully and show the style, size and other
dimensions of all the structural parts and service equipment of the building,
except as set forth otherwise in this Code, except that all drawings shall be
drawn upon suitable material or by some approved photographic process that will
not fade or obliterate within 5 years, to a scale that will clearly show the
work to be done, but in no event less than 1/8 inch to the foot, and except
that plot plan or other plans when specifically approved by the Building
Official may be at an approved smaller scale. All distances, heights,
dimensions, thicknesses and sizes of walls, supporting members, structural
parts and openings shall be accurately listed by legible figures and drawings
made accurate and complete. The drawing shall show all pertinent parts of the
structures to be constructed and/or the service equipment and accessory
mechanical and electrical piping and duct work to be installed including but
not limited to the entire sewage, drain, soil, waste and vent pipes, location
of all plumbing fixtures, hot water heaters, furnaces, steam or hot water
heating boilers, power boilers, heater rooms, hot air registers, hot air riser
ducts, cold air registers, steam or hot water radiators, plenum chambers, fans,
ventilation ducts and flues, smoke flues, elevator hatchway enclosures,
refrigeration units, gas lighting or heating outlets, electric wiring outlets
including outlets for heating units, cooling units, motors, generators and
transformers. The drawings accompanying an application for a demolition permit
shall be prepared on the same scale but, at the discretion of the Building
Official, may not be required to include drawings showing the internal layout
or internal service, mechanical and electrical equipment.
 
   K.   Special Requirements of Plans:
   The plans for each room, apartment, or part of the building or structure
shall be lettered clearly, showing the purpose for which the same is designed
to accommodate or the number of persons to be assembled therein. If the room,
apartment, or part of the building or structure is to be used for any purpose
for which the various sections of this Code restrict or limit the number of
persons to be assembled or accommodated therein, the plans shall be clearly
lettered to indicate the prescribed limitation.
   L.   Drawing for Alterations and Additions:
   The requirements relative to the sections and elevations to be provided may
be waived in the case of alterations in or additions to existing buildings, but
not to the extent that such plans, sections or elevations as are submitted
fully describe the parts of the building or service equipment which are to be
altered or the addition added thereto and the extent to which the occupancy
thereof will be changed.
   M.   Alterations and Erasures:
   It shall be unlawful to erase, alter, or modify any lines, figures,
coloring, written or printed matter contained upon any drawing or in any
specifications or stormwater drainage plan filed with the Building Official
after it has been approved by him or her except as follows:
      1.   If, during the progress of the execution of the work or prior
thereto, and subject to the limitations of Subsection U of this Section
1302.01  as to ordinary repairs which require no application or notices to the
Building Official, it is desired to deviate in any manner affecting the
construction or other essential or vital feature of the work from the terms of
the application, plans, specifications, or stormwater drainage plan, notice of
such intention to alter or deviate shall be given in writing to the Building
Official and his written consent shall be obtained before such alteration or
deviation may be made.
      2.   If such change or deviation affects the bearing or structural parts
of such work or its class of occupancy, new plans and specifications therefore
shall be submitted for approval.
      3.   Notices of alterations and approvals therefore shall be filed with
the original application for permit.
   N.   Plot Plan:
      1.   The certified plot plan shall consist of a plan of the lot or site
upon which it is intended to build, erect, alter or add to such building or
structure, and shall show the location and dimensions of such lot, as well as
all existing structures, appurtenances, and impervious areas, if deemed
necessary by the Building Official. The plot plan shall be a property survey
bearing the name, address, telephone number, seal, and registration number of
an individual licensed by the State of Ohio to make such surveys.
      2.   The plot plan shall show the location of all easements and rights-
of-way on such lot and all drainage facilities; the widths of the streets,
alleys or court ways upon which the lot or site abuts; adjacent grades, and
property lines the sidewalk and curb lines thereof; the location of car tracks,
fire hydrants, and fire cistern manholes; the amount of space on such street or
alley that will be used when such space is desired for the storage of building
materials and rubbish; the location of any building or structure on the lot;
the plan of the first story in heavy lines and all projections in their
extremes in broken lines; the legible dimensions of the body of the building,
its extreme projections and the distances thereof from the adjoining street or
lot lines; and the distance between the building or structure and any other
building or structure on the same lot or site. The plot plan shall be drawn to
a uniform scale, and the scale and compass points shall be legibly marked on
the plan. Where such plot plan indicates a conflict with any easement, right-
of-way or facility of a public utility or public authority, the Building
Official shall notify the utility or authority concerned of this conflict as
soon as practicable after the application for the permit is filed and shall not
issue the permit until the conflict has been resolved to his satisfaction.
 
   O.   Stormwater Runoff Mitigation:
      1.   All building applications and/or issues are subject to all
provisions and requirements of the City's stormwater management code (Part
Twelve - Stormwater Management Code). (Ord. 4673, passed 5/4/09, effective 6/4/
09).
 
   P.   Additional Information Required:
   In addition to the drawing and stormwater drainage requirements as above
specified, the Building Official may require that such detailed installation
drawings or other technical data accompany applications for permits as he deems
necessary to determine compliance with the provisions of this Code as pertain
thereto. The Building Official may require adequate details of structural,
mechanical and electrical work including computations, stress diagrams and
other essential technical data to be filed. All engineering plans and
computations shall bear the signature of the engineer or architect responsible
for the design.
   Q.   Specifications:
   Except as provided below, each set of drawings submitted for a permit shall
be accompanied by a set of specifications describing all materials to be used
and the work contemplated to be done. The specifications shall be written in
ink, typewritten or printed. The various subjects therein shall be grouped in
the order of their construction, and all matters relating to the same subject
shall be incorporated in that part of the specifications devoted to that
subject. Where, in the opinion of the Building Official, all pertinent
specification data necessary to determine compliance with this Code are
adequately shown on the drawings, he may waive the requirement for submission
of the specifications.
   R.   Imperfect Application, Drawings, Specifications or Statement:
   If the application for a permit or the drawings, specifications, details, or
stormwater drainage plan accompanying same indicate to the Building Official
that the work to be done is not clearly or specifically defined and/or
dimensioned or is imperfect, or is not in all respects in accordance with the
provisions of this Code, he or she shall refuse to issue a permit until such
application, drawings, specifications, details, and stormwater drainage plan
shall have been made to conform in every respect with the requirements thereof.
All drawings which are not completely dimensioned or which are illegible shall
be deemed incomplete. Drawings may be adjusted, corrected or otherwise marked
so as to show revisions or corrections.
   S.   Action on Application:
   The Building Official shall examine or cause to be examined all applications
for permits and amendments thereto within a reasonable time after filing. If
the application or the plans do not conform to the requirements of this Code
and of all pertinent laws and ordinances, he or she shall reject such
application in writing, stating the reasons therefore. If the Building Official
is satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the requirements of this Code
and all laws and ordinances applicable thereto, he or she shall issue a permit
therefore as soon as practicable.
   T.   Previous Approvals:
   This Code shall not require changes in the plans, construction or designated
use of a building for which a lawful permit has been heretofore issued or
otherwise lawfully authorized, and the construction of which shall have been
actively prosecuted within 180 days after the effective date of adoption of
this Code and has not been abandoned.
   U.   Ordinary Repairs:
   Ordinary repairs to structures may be made without application or notice to
the Building Official, but such repairs shall not include the cutting away of
any load bearing wall, partition or portion thereof, adding partition walls,
the removal or cutting of any structural beam or bearing support, or the
removal or change of any required means of egress, or rearrangement of parts of
a structure affecting the exit way requirements; nor shall ordinary repairs
include addition to, alteration of, replacement or relocation of any standpipe,
water supply, sewer, drainage, drain leader, gas, soil, waste, vent or similar
piping, electric wiring or mechanical or other work affecting public health or
general safety.
1302.02 PERMIT APPROVAL, REVOCATION AND CONDITIONS.
   A.   Signature to Permit:
   The Building Official shall attach his or her signature to each approved
permit, or may authorize a subordinate to affix such signature thereto.
   B.   Approved Plans:
   The Building Official shall stamp or endorse in writing all sets of
corrected plans APPROVED, and one set of such approved plans shall be retained
by him or her and another set shall be kept at the building site, open to
inspection of the Building Official or his or her authorized representative at
all reasonable times.
   C.   Revocation of Permits:
   The Building Official may revoke any permit or approval issued under the
provisions of this Code or may stop the work for any of the following reasons:
      1.   Whenever there is a violation of any provision of this Code or law
or ordinance relating to the same subject matter.
      2.   Whenever the continuance of any work becomes dangerous to life or
property.
      3.   Whenever there is a violation of any condition on which the issuance
of the permit or approval was based.
      4.   Whenever any false statement or misrepresentation has been made upon
the application, plans or specifications, plot plan, or stormwater drainage
plan on which the issuance of the permit or approval was based.
   The revocation notice of the permit in every instance shall be in writing
and shall be served upon the holder of the permit, the owner, his or her agent,
or the person having charge of the work. Any revocation notice shall also be
posted upon the building or structure in question by the Building Official.
After the notice is received or posted, it shall be unlawful for any person to
proceed with any operation for which such a permit was issued. No part of the
fees for such permit shall be returned. Revocation of a permit shall be subject
to appeal as provided in this Code.
   
   D.   Approval in Part:
   The Building Official may issue a permit for the construction of foundations
or any other part of a building or structure before the entire plans and
specifications for the whole building have been submitted, provided adequate
information and detailed statements have been filed to demonstrate that an
unjustifiable hardship will be placed upon the applicant if he is required to
delay initiation of said work until completion and approval of the drawings and
specifications, together with such other data as may be necessary to
demonstrate that the work will comply with all the pertinent requirements of
the Code. The holder of such permit for the foundations or other part of the
building or structure shall proceed at his own risk with the building operation
and without assurance that a permit for the entire structure will be granted.
   E.   Payment of Fee:
   A permit shall not be valid until the fees prescribed by law have been paid,
nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until the additional fee, if
any, has been paid.
   F.   Posting of Permit:
   A true copy of the building permit shall be kept on the site of operations
open to public inspection during the entire time of prosecution of the work and
until the completion of same.
   G.   Conditions of Permit:
      1.   Compliance with Code: A permit shall be an authorization to proceed
with the work, but shall not be construed as authority to violate, cancel, or
set aside any of the provisions of the Code, zoning laws or other applicable
laws or ordinances except as specifically allowed by any lawfully granted
modification or deviation.
      2.   Compliance with Permit: All work shall conform to the approved
application and plans for which the permit has been issued and any approved
amendments thereto.
      3.   Compliance with Plot Plan: All new work shall be located strictly in
accordance with the approved plot plan.
      4.   Change in Plot: No lot or plot shall be changed, increased or
diminished in area from that shown in the application for permit without first
amending the application to that effect, except where the change is caused by
reason of an official street opening, street widening, or other public
improvement.
      5.   Stormwater Drainage: The holder of the permit shall provide
stormwater drainage both on and off the site in accordance with the stormwater
drainage plan required by Subsection O N of Section
1302.01 . (Cross Reference: See
1171.05  for similar language that is part of the subdivision regulations.)
   H.    Expiration:
   Every permit shall become invalid unless the work authorized by such permit
is commenced within 180 days after its issuance, or if the work authorized by
such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of 180 days after the work
is commenced. A permit shall be deemed abandoned if no inspections have been
approved in a 180 day period. The Building Official may grant, in writing, one
or more extensions of time, for permits of not more than 180 days each. The
extension shall be requested in writing and justification cause demonstrated.
   I.   Permit Renewal:
   A permit which has expired for 180 days or less shall be permitted to be
renewed provided no changes have been made in the original plans and
specifications for such work. The renewal fee shall be one half the amount
required for a new permit. Permits which have expired for greater than 180 days
require a new application and payment of the full permit fee.
1302.03 ANNUAL PERMIT.
   A.   In lieu of requiring separate permits for operations incidental to
regular maintenance and/or minor repairs of the structural, electrical, or
mechanical systems, or installation of equipment or fixtures in existing
buildings (to the extent such work is not exempt from permit requirements as
minor or ordinary repairs), the Building Official may issue an annual permit.
Two types of annual permits are available as follows:
   B.   Annual permits issued to organizations with a staff of mechanics
qualified in the various disciplines of construction and supervised by
qualified personnel:
   Work done under such permits may include minimal rearrangement or
replacement in kind of such elements or equipment. Any new construction,
increases in height or area, additional building service equipment, deletion or
reduction or removal of any load bearing elements, fire walls, smoke
partitions, fire protection facilities, exitways or any changes in type of use
or occupancy of a room or space will require plans and specifications for
separate regular permits for each project. Such annual permits will be issued
or renewed yearly for that current year in accordance with the provisions
herein prescribed and upon application and only to persons, firms or
corporations conforming to all of the following criteria:
      1.   They have a regularly established maintenance staff for performing
the proposed work;
       2.   The maintenance staff is supervised by qualified personnel,
satisfactory to the Building Official, which personnel will be held responsible
for conformance of the proposed operations to the requirements of this Code;
and
      3.   They shall keep records of all projects which require permits, which
records shall be submitted to the City upon demand and the premises made
available for inspection as required by Code.
   C.   The annual permit shall list the personnel authorized to supervise the
specific types of work for which they will be held responsible:
   If, at any time, it is desired to change the designations of persons listed
on the permit, such request shall be made in writing to the Building Official
and an amendment to the permit shall be issued. All work performed under the
annual permit shall be in conformance with the requirements of the Code, and
the holder of an annual permit shall obtain an individual permit prior to
commencing work.
   D.   Misrepresentations:
   No person shall misrepresent a material fact in securing permits or appeals
required under this Chapter.
(Ord. 4029, passed 12/17/90; Ord. 4505, passed 5/6/02, effective 6/6/02; Ord.
4568, passed 1/10/05, effective 2/1/05).
CHAPTER 1303
BUILDING RELOCATION AND DEMOLITION
1303.01   Relocation of Buildings.
1303.02   Demolition of Buildings.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
For Ohio Building Code (OBC) see Ohio Administrative Code 4101:2. Also see
Chapter 1322. 1999 edition of Ohio Residential Code for One, Two and Three-
Family Dwelling Code.
 
1303.01 RELOCATION OF BUILDINGS.
   No building, other than temporary buildings, shall be relocated prior to
compliance with the provisions of Section
1303.02 C and Section
1322.01 and until a permit has been issued. All work shall be in conformity
with the following:
   A.   Notification:
   The Building Official shall be notified and furnished the required
information by the owner of the building under consideration not less than
seven (7) days before the date on which it is proposed to relocate the
building.
   B.   Contents of Notification:
   The notification and required information shall include the following
concerning the building:
      1.   Present and proposed address;
      2.   Type of construction;
      3.   A certified plot plan of the proposed location drawn to scale and
having the distance from the building to all lot lines and other buildings on
the same lot;
      4.   The approval of the highway and police authorities having
jurisdiction when a street is to be used in relocation operations; and
      5.   Certification by the owner that the building will be relocated from
the existing site within forty-five (45) days after issuance of the permit.
      6.   Submission of a performance bond or letter of credit in a form
satisfactory to the city attorney guaranteeing completion of the relocation in
the manner required by the provisions of this Code.
       7.   Such other information, as requested by the Building Official,
which may be necessary to insure compliance with necessary Building Codes.
   C.   Landscaping, Screening and Stormwater Runoff Plan:
   A landscaping screening and stormwater runoff plan that meets all of the
requirements of Section
1303.02 C.
   D.   Inspection:
   After the required notification and information have been received by the
Building Official of his or her designate, he or she shall inspect said
building or cause it to be inspected and if he or she finds it can be safely
relocated in the manner proposed and that the proposed new location of the
building will conform to the provisions of applicable Building Codes, zoning
codes, and other applicable City of Oakwood requirements, and that the building
in its new location will not be in conflict with provisions of such codes or
requirements, he or she shall notify the owner or his agent in writing that the
building may be relocated.
   E.   Permit and Fees:
   No building shall be relocated until a Building Official has approved the
relocation thereof through the issuance of a permit. The fees for permits and
inspections shall be set by the City Manager under Chapter
153  of the Administrative Code.
(Amended by Ord. 4479, effective 2/15/01).
1303.02 DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS.
   No building shall be demolished until a permit has been issued. This section
shall apply only to the demolition of fifty percent (50%) or more of any
building. This section shall not apply to detached garages, sheds, accessory
buildings or temporary structures. The fees for permits and inspections shall
be set by the City Manager under Chapter
153  of the Administrative Code. All work shall be in conformity with the
following:
   A.   Service Connection:
      1.   Before a structure can be demolished or removed, the owner or agent
shall give notice of that proposed work to all utilities having service
connections within the structure. This includes utilities providing water,
electric, gas, sewer and all other utility services.
      2.   Before a permit to demolish or remove will be issued, all such
utility lines, connections and equipment shall have been removed from the
structure and from the lot or tract of land on which the structure is located,
except as otherwise provided in this subsection A. At the option of the city
manager, all such utility lines, connections and equipment must also have been
removed from any adjoining street, alley or other city property back to the
main line to which the lateral line serving this particular structure was
connected. If the city requires this procedure, it shall not be sufficient to
use a shut-off valve at the lateral connection to the main line, but instead it
shall be plugged, filled, grounded and/or stopped in some manner consistent
with good utility practices and acceptable to the city. If the city exercises
its discretion to allow the lateral to continue to exist from the main line and
extend across the adjoining city property to the edge of the lot on which the
structure is located, the city shall also have the option to require that
lateral to be plugged instead of valve-stopped at its contact with the lot and/
or filled so as to deter its collapse.
      3.   A permit to demolish or remove a structure shall not be issued until
a signed document is obtained from all affected utilities stating that the work
required by the city has been accomplished in a safe manner. Each such document
shall require the utility company to indemnify, defend and hold the city
harmless from any loss or damage which results from the work not having been
performed in a safe manner.
      4.   To minimize excavations in recently paved streets or sidewalks, the
Building Official may require that removal of underground utility lines,
connections and equipment under streets, alleys or other public grounds be
delayed for up to five years. This decision may be made as part of the options
of the city referred to in paragraph 2 above. Further, the Building Official
may allow certain utilities to continue in place and/or in use to the extent he
determines that such utilities will be reasonably necessary for the property
owner to meet the standards applicable to the screening plan described in sub-
section C below in this
1303.02.
      5.   The Building Official shall also have discretion to allow the
utility lateral to remain in place under abutting public property on the basis
of a written undertaking by the property owner, in a form acceptable to the
city attorney, to erect and complete within one year a new structure to be
served by that lateral.
      6.   Whether or not the city makes a determination under this
1303.02  to allow any utility lateral to remain in place in adjoining public
property, the bond referred to in sub-section C 6 below shall include the cost
of eventual removal of the lateral from that property and of all accompanying
matters included but not limited to the expenses of plugging the lateral and/or
main line, repairs of the street and street openings and permit fees.
   B.   Lot Regulations:
   Whenever a structure is demolished or removed, the premises shall be
maintained free from all unsafe or hazardous conditions by the proper
regulation of the lot and restoring of established grades and erection of the
necessary retaining walls and fences in accordance with the provisions of the
City of Oakwood Codified Ordinances. Such required walls, fences and any other
safety precautions shall be continued until any basement on the premises is
filled in as required by the City and the grade of the lot restored. Further,
the premises shall also be maintained in such a manner as to insure the safety
of persons and improvements on adjoining public and private property. The
Building Official must approve all regulation of the lot and safety precautions
referred to in this paragraph prior to issuance of a demolition permit. All
such regulations and safety precautions must continue in effect until such time
as the demolition work is completed according to inspection by the city. Within
sixty (60) days after the work of demolishing or removing the structure has
been completed (weather permitting), the premises shall be planted with sod
and/or with other vegetation or shall be seeded as described in the plan
referred to below, except to the extent new construction is commenced within
those sixty (60) days. The grass and other vegetation shall be maintained
thereafter except to the extent such vegetation is replaced by structures or
other improvements that comply with all city requirements.
   C.   Landscaping, Screening and Stormwater Runoff Plan:
   Prior to the issuance of a relocation or demolition permit, a plan for such
landscaping screening and stormwater runoff to protect adjacent properties,
must be submitted in advance to the Planning Commission which shall approve,
disapprove or modify that plan under the following standards:
      1.   The plan must describe plantings and/or other screening of such a
nature as to make the appearance of the premises consistent with the appearance
of adjacent residential properties and to screen those adjacent properties from
any negative visual impact of such items as traffic, noise, parking, light
spillage, or pedestrian traffic.
      2.   The plan must include such evergreen and/or deciduous plantings as
will be necessary to protect abutting properties from any significant reduction
of value that would otherwise result from the structure being demolished or
removed.
      3.   The plan must include such structure(s), wall(s), evergreen and/or
deciduous plantings as will be necessary to protect the occupants of abutting
properties from any significant injury to the use and enjoyment of those
properties that would otherwise result from the structure being demolished or
removed.
      4.   All such plans shall include removal of all accessory structures and
impervious surface if the principal structure is to be removed. If only an
accessory structure is being demolished, it must be replaced with sod or other
vegetation as described in the plan, but the screening requirements in the
paragraphs above shall not apply.
      5.   The plan must describe how stormwater runoff from the property will
be addressed. (see Part Twelve - Stormwater Management Code of the Oakwood
Codified Ordinances). (Ord. 4673, passed 5/4/09, effective 6/4/09).
       6.   The plan must contain language obligating the permit holder to
complete the work within the time required by this section. That language must
be approved by the City Attorney. Further, the plan must be accompanied by a
valid, recordable easement signed by the property owner giving the city the
right to enter upon the property to implement or complete the plan if the
permit holder fails to do so in a timely manner. A bond or letter of credit
must be submitted at the time of permit issuance in a form acceptable to the
City Attorney and in an amount which would reimburse the city if it became
necessary for the city to implement the plan so as to bring the lot into
compliance with the approved plan. The plan shall include a method to protect
the subject area of the property from intrusion of motor vehicles.
      7.   Screening lines shall be established that coincide with the building
setback lines, except that the Planning Commission may allow screening to be
established in rear yards at locations other than the rear yard setback lines
to the extent the Planning Commission determines that screening at such other
locations will meet the standards required for a screening plan. If two or more
adjacent properties are removed, the front yard setback lines shall be
determined using one of the following alternatives, whichever results in
establishing a greater distance from the right of way:
         a.   the setback line of the principal structure situated the greater
distance from the right of way; or in the alternative
         b.   the setback line as described in the zoning ordinance Section
600.3.
   D.   Notice:
   A notice of the Planning Commission meeting to consider the plan shall be
mailed to all property owners within two hundred (200) feet of the perimeter of
the property. Notice shall be by regular mail and a legal advertisement is not
required. In measuring the 200', adjacent right of ways will be excluded from
the measurement. The cost of such notice shall be paid by the applicant to the
city, and the applicant shall be obligated to supply the city with the names
and addresses of all such owners.
   E.   Exception:
      1.   When, in the opinion of the Building Official, the delay caused by
the plan review requirements would endanger the public, he may temporarily
waive the plan review to allow for the immediate razing of the structure. In
such an event, the Building Official shall require a bond or letter of credit
in an amount to insure compliance with these regulations as soon as practicable
thereafter.
      2.   If a building permit for a replacement building has been applied for
and is to be issued at the same time as the demolition permit, the Building
Official may grant an exemption from the plan submission and approval
requirements of subsection C of this
1303.02.  The standards to be met in order to obtain that exception are as
follows:
          a.   the size and location of the replacement structure must be such
that its substitution for the building being demolished will not expose
adjacent residential properties to any significantly greater negative impact
than they had experienced (before the demolition began) from traffic, noise,
parking, light spillage and pedestrian traffic.
         b.   the building permit application must be accompanied by a written
undertaking from the owner and/or contractor to landscape and/or screen the
site and replacement building in a manner approved by a horticulturist (or
other landscaping expert) on behalf of the city as being consistent with
landscaping and/or screening of adjacent residential properties.
         c.   the building permit must be accompanied by a written commitment
from the owner that construction of the replacement building will be commenced
within sixty (60) days after the demolition is completed and that the exterior
walls, windows, doors and roof will be completed within ninety (90) days after
construction began. Further, the same written commitment must assure that the
landscaping and/or screening will be completed within one hundred twenty (120)
days after construction began. All these time periods shall be subject to
delays caused by weather.
         d.   to provide security for completion of the landscaping and/or
screening (or for completion of the landscaping and/or screening and water
runoff measures that would have to be implemented if no replacement building
construction is commenced within sixty (60) days after demolition is
completed), a request for this exemption must be accompanied by a valid,
recordable easement signed by the property owner giving the city the right to
enter upon the property to complete the screening and/or landscaping plan or
(if construction of the replacement building is not commenced within the
required time after demolition is completed) to complete the landscaping and/or
screening and water runoff measures required by the plan which would have been
submitted under subsection C above. Further, a bond, cash deposit or letter of
credit must be submitted at the same time in a form acceptable to the city
attorney and in an amount which will be sufficient to cover the costs to the
city of completing any such work not performed within the applicable time
deadlines, including but not limited to the direct and indirect costs to the
city employee who performed administrative, supervisory or other services in
connection with these matters. (Ord. 4132, passed 5/4/92)
   F.   Miscellaneous Demolition Regulations:
      1.   The demolition must be completed and the site and grade restored
within thirty (30) days after issuance of the permit, subject to delays caused
by fire or other casualty, acts of God, or strikes. The fact that a demolition
contractor (or any subcontractor) is busy on another job, or the inability to
obtain or rent demolition equipment, shall not be a valid excuse for failure to
complete the demolition work on time; such matters shall be taken into account
by the contractor in making application for a demolition permit.
       2.   No water supplied by or through the city is to be used on the
demolition work without advance express approval by the city on the basis of
satisfactory arrangements having been made for payment of water charges. The
hours of demolition work shall be limited to those permitted for construction
work under Chapter
1331.01  of the Codified Ordinances of this city. If the demolition work is not
completed within the time required, the demolition contractor shall be
obligated to pay the sum of $500.00 per day to the city for each additional day
(or part thereof) that it takes to complete the work through final inspection
and approval by the city. This per day payment is to defer direct and indirect
administrative costs incurred by the city with regard to continuing
inspections, rerouting plans, and all time of city employees and agents devoted
to matters caused by failure to complete the work in time.
      3.   Prior to the issuance of a demolition permit, a performance bond or
letter of credit (hereinafter jointly referred to as "bond") in a form
satisfactory to the City Attorney must be submitted so as to guarantee
completion of the demolition in the manner required by the provisions of this
Code. The bond shall also guarantee completion of all landscaping, screening
and storm water runoff work required under Subsection C of this Section
1303.02 . The amount of the bond shall be not less than 100% of the cost of
completing the performance of work guaranteed thereby, including all such work
as may be necessary or appropriate to meet the standards of Subsection C of
this Section
1303.02  if a new structure is or is not erected on the site. The Building
Official shall determine the amount of the bond. The permit application shall
be accompanied by a valid, recordable easement signed by the property owner
giving the city the right to enter upon the property to complete the work
guaranteed by the bond if the permit holder fails to do so within the time
limit provisions of Subsection F of this Section 
1303.02 . All landscaping, screening and storm water runoff work required to be
installed or provided for under Subsection C of this Section
1303.02  must continue to be maintained in good condition by the property
owner. This shall include but not be limited to the obligation to replace
deceased vegetation within thirty (30) days after notification by the city,
weather permitting.
   G.   Conference with Demolition Contractor:
   With regard to any application for a demolition permit, there shall be a
conference between the permit applicant and the city prior to the permit being
issued. The purpose of such conference will be to review information contained
in the application and to enable the demolition contractor to supplement the
application, if necessary, with such information and/or representations as may
be necessary to demonstrate that said contractor has available or will obtain
the proper equipment and manpower to commence and complete the work in advance
with the requirements of this city.
   H.   Method of Demolition, Safety Procedures; Approval:
   An application for a demolition permit shall indicate what method of
demolition is to
be used and what safety measures are to be taken to insure persons, vehicles
and improvements on adjacent public and private property. Such method of
demolition and the safety measures must meet the reasonable approval of the
Building Official before the permit is issued.
Legislative History: Ord. 4132, passed 5/4/92; Ord. 4158, passed 9/21/92; Ord.
4479, passed 1/15/0; Ord. 4505, passed 5/6/02, effective 6/6/02; Ord. 4568,
passed 1/10/05, effective 2/1/05.
 
CHAPTER 1304
ONE, TWO AND THREE-FAMILY DWELLING CODE
Part 1 -- Administrative (including Sections 1-1 through -116).
Part 2 -- Building Planning (incorporating Chapters 2 through 28 of the Ohio
Residential Code for One, Two and Three-Family Dwelling Code, 1999 Edition,
with exceptions, deletions and/or additions as set forth in this Part 2).
1304.01 Penalty.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCE
Ohio Residential Code One, Two and Three-Family Dwelling Code, 1999 Edition,
Chapters 2 through 28.
 
 
PART 1 -- ADMINISTRATIVE.
SECTION 101-TITLE
 
These provisions shall be known as the "City of Oakwood One, Two and Three-
Family Dwelling Code (C123DC)," may be cited as such, and will be referred to
herein as "this code." This code constitutes and incorporates the Ohio
Residential Code for One, Two and Three Family Dwellings Code, 2004 Edition,
with the amendments set forth in the various chapters of this Part Thirteen of
the Codified Ordinances of the City of Oakwood. The 2004 edition of the Ohio
Residential Code for One, Two and Three-Family Dwellings is based on the
International One, Two and Three-Family Dwelling Code (2003 edition) as amended
by the Ohio Building Officials Association. Chapter 1 of the 2003 International
One, Two and Three Family Dwelling Code is entirely omitted and is replaced by
Chapter
1301 of the Codified Ordinances.
 
SECTION 102-PURPOSE
 
The purpose of this code is to provide minimum standards for the protection of
life, limb, health, property, environment and for the safety and welfare of the
consumer, general public and the owners and occupants of residential buildings
regulated by this code.
 
SECTION 103-SCOPE
 
Notwithstanding any word, term or phrase, the provisions of this code apply to
the construction, movement, addition, prefabrication, alteration, enlargement,
replacement, repair, use and occupancy and maintenance of detached one, two and
three-family dwellings not more than three stores in height, with a separate
means of egress, and their accessory structures.
 
SECTION 104-APPLICABILITY
 
104.1   - Other Laws.  The provisions of this Code shall not be deemed to
nullify any provisions of local, state or federal law.
 
104.2   - Referenced Codes and Standards. The codes and standards referenced in
this Code shall be considered part of the requirements of this Code to the
prescribed extent of such reference.
 
104.3   - Partial Invalidity. In the event any part or provision of this Code
is held to be illegal or void, this shall not have the effect of making void or
illegal any of the other parts or provisions.
 
SECTION 105-BUILDING OFFICIAL, DUTIES AND POWERS
 
The Building Official charged with the administration enforcement of the entire
code shall in the enforcement and administration of the code act on any
question relative to the make or manner of construction and the materials to be
used in the erection, repair, removal, demolition, location, use, occupancy of
any structure and the maintenance of, addition to and installation of service
equipment in all buildings and structures, except as may otherwise be
specifically provided for by requirements of others' laws or by other
provisions of this Code. The standards referenced in this code shall be
considered part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of
such reference.
 
One, Two and Three-Family Dwelling Code
 
Where differences occur between provisions of this code and referenced
standards, the provisions of this code shall apply.
 
SECTION 106-ENTRY
 
Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Official or their duly
authorized representative, shall be permitted to enter at reasonable times any
building, structure of premises in the jurisdiction to perform any duty imposed
upon the Building Official by this code, or whenever there is reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in the building or premises a violation or
condition which is unsafe, dangerous or hazardous. If such structure or
premises is unoccupied, the Building Official shall first make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or control of the
structure or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the Building
Official shall have recourse to the remedies provided by law to secure entry.
 
SECTION 107-VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES AND ADJUDICATION ORDERS
 
107.1   - Unlawful Acts. It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership,
joint venture, firm, or corporation whether as owner, lessee, sub-lessee or
occupant to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, improve, move, remove,
convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any one, two or three family
dwellings or accessory structure regulated by this Code, or cause or permit the
same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the provisions of this
code.
 
107.2   - Violations. It is hereby declared that any violation of this code
constitutes a public nuisance, and in addition to any other remedies provided
by this code for its enforcement, the city may bring civil suit to enjoin the
violation of any provisions of this code.
 
When the Building Official finds that work or equipment is contrary to any
provisions of this code, he or she shall send a notice in writing to the owner
of said building or his or her agent. The notice shall state where and in what
respect the work or equipment does not confirm to this code, and specify a
reasonable period of time in which to abate the violation or appeal.
 
107.3   - Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this code shall be deemed guilty of a third degree misdemeanor
and each such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and
every day or portion thereof during which any violation of any of the
provisions of this code is committed, continued or permitted, and upon
conviction of any such person shall be punishable by a fine, or by
imprisonment, or by both such fine and imprisonment as established by state or
local applicable laws.
 
107.4   - Adjudication Order, Required Before Legal Proceedings. Before the
city attempts to enforce this code, by any remedy, civil, or criminal, it shall
issue an adjudication order. Such orders shall be prepared and executed in
accordance with the Ohio Building Code, as adopted by the State of Ohio.
 
SECTION 108-RIGHT OF APPEAL
 
108.1   - General Residential Board of Appeals. In order to hear and decide
appeals of orders, decisions or determinations made by the Building Official
relative to the application and interpretation of this Code, there shall be
Boards of Appeals established by the Montgomery County Commission and the
Greene County Commission to hear all appeals of each jurisdiction adopting this
Code within each respective county, in accordance with Section 108.1.1 through
108.10.
 
108.1.1 - Limitations on Authority. An application for appeal shall be based on
a claim that the true intent of this Code or the rules legally adopted
thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this Code do
not fully apply, or an equally good or better form of construction is proposed.
The Board shall have no authority to waive requirements of this Code.
 
108.2   - Board. There is hereby created a Residential Board of Appeals,
hereinafter referred to as "the Board." The Greene County Board shall have the
power to adopt and promulgate rules and regulations interpreting the process of
this code. The Montgomery County Board shall have power to adopt and promulgate
rules and regulations interpreting the provisions of this code and the most
recent fire code adopted by the Southwest Ohio Fire Safety Council. The Board
shall consist of five members.
 
108.3   - Qualifications of Members. The Board shall consist of five (5)
members as follows:
      1.   One fire official;
      2.   One builder;
      3.   One architect or engineer, registered as such in Ohio;
      4.   One attorney, licensed to practice in Ohio;
      5.   One Building Official.
 
Each member shall be appointed for a term of five (5) years, or until his or
her successor is appointed, except that appointments to fill vacancies arising
in mid-term shall be only for the unexpired portion of such terms.
 
Nomination Sources:
 
The fire official shall be nominated by the Southwest Ohio Fire Safety Council.
The builder shall be nominated by the Home Builders' Association of Dayton and
the Miami Valley. The architect or engineer shall be nominated by the City of
Dayton, the City of Kettering, or Montgomery County, in turn, by alphabetical
order. The attorney shall be nominated by other jurisdictions which have
adopted this Code, in turn, by alphabetical order. The Building Official shall
be nominated by the Miami Valley Building Officials' Council. Members of both
Boards shall have a minimum of six years of building design, construction or
inspection experience, except the attorney, who shall have six years legal
experience.
 
108.4   - Chairman and Secretary. The Board shall appoint one of its members to
serve as its Chairman, and one as Vice-Chairman and shall appoint a person to
act as secretary for the Board who shall keep a detailed record of all Board
proceedings. The terms of service by the Chairman, Vice-Chairman, and Secretary
shall be renewable in one year. The Secretary need not be a member of the
Board.
 
108.5   - Disqualification. No member of the Board shall discuss or pass
judgment on any question involving work on which he or she or his or her
employer is or has been engaged or involved as a contractor or material dealer
or superintendent, or for which he or she or his or her employer has prepared
plans or specifications, or in which he or she has any personal or financial
interest.
 
108.6   - Meetings. The Board shall meet within thirty (30) days after the
filing of any appeal or request for action with the Secretary of the Board, and
also periodically if the volume of its work so warrants. The Secretary shall be
responsible for scheduling meetings, notifying the Board members of such
meetings and for giving the required public notices for meetings.
 
108.7   - Representation. Each appellant or applicant, the building official,
and any other person whose interests may be affected by an appeal or
application, shall be given a fair opportunity to be heard orally, in person or
by counsel, and to present written evidence to the Board.
 
108.8   - Application for Appeal or Action. Any person adversely affected may
apply for an appeal a decision of a Building Official or Fire Official refusing
to grant a permit, or to permit the use of a particular material and/or
equipment or method of construction in a proposed structure, provided such
appeal is filed within thirty (30) days of date of receipt of the written
decision from the building official. The appeal application must include
pertinent information, and payment of fees. A hearing shall be held within a
reasonable time but not to exceed thirty (30) days following receipt of the
appeals application by the Secretary of the Board. The Board shall provide the
appellant with written notice of its determination within thirty (30) days
after the hearing.
 
108.8.1 - Fee for Appeal or Action. Each application for an appeal to the Board
from an action of a Building Official shall be accompanied by a fee of $100.00.
Fees shall be deposited in accordance with applicable laws and shall be used to
defray the normal expenses of the Board including the payment for time of the
Secretary, payment for the preparation of transcript of hearings by a court
reporter when deemed necessary, or such similar expenses as the Board may
authorize. The Secretary or the Board may provide for the presence of a court
reporter at a hearing at the Secretary's discretion or at the discretion of the
Board. The Appellant may require the presence of a court reporter at a hearing
by giving notice to the Secretary to that effect at the time of filing the
application for appeal.
 
108.8.2 - Delegation of Test. The Building Official shall, when he or she deems
it desirable, request the Chairman to designate members of the Board to make an
investigation into the facts and ramifications of an appeal and to make a
report of findings to the Board. In this event, the decision of the Board may
be postponed to a later date, within the discretion of the Board, but not to
exceed sixty (60) days after the hearing at which such investigation was
requested.
 
108.9   - Quorum. A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a
quorum. A majority of the quorum shall be necessary to make a decision on an
appeal, modification, deviation or an approved rule.
 
108.10 - Re-hearing. The Board shall, upon application of either the appellant
or the Building or Fire Official, grant a re-hearing before the Board in any
case where new evidence is presented which, in the opinion of the Chairman, may
justify each re-hearing. Such re-hearing shall not serve to stop execution of
the previous decision of the Board so directing.
 
SECTION 109-PERMIT
 
109.1   - Permit Required. A permit shall be obtained before beginning
construction, alteration, removal, demolition or repairs, other than ordinary
repairs, using application forms furnished by the Building Official.
Ordinary repairs are non-structural repairs and do not include addition to,
alteration of, or replacement or relocation of water supply, sewer, drainage,
drain leader, gas, soil, waste, vent or similar piping, electric wiring, or
mechanical or other work for which a permit is required by the Building
Official.
 
109.1.1 - Permit Application. Any owner or contractor, who desires to obtain a
permit, and who will be performing the work under the project shall first make
application to the Building Official.
 
109.2   - Permit and Inspection Fees. Permit and inspection fees shall be set
by the City Manager under Chapter
153 of the Administrative Code.
 
109.3   - Permit Expiration. A permit for any proposed work shall be deemed to
have been abandoned 180 days after date of issue unless construction has been
diligently pursued. Additionally, any permit shall be deemed to be abandoned if
authorized work has not been diligently pursued for any 180 day period. For the
purpose of this section, it shall be prima fascia evidence that construction
has not been diligently pursued if there has been no approved inspection made
on the project during a 180 day period.
   When the Building Official determines a permit has been abandoned, he may
serve notice
upon the holder of the permit, the owner, his agent, or the person having
charge of the work. Within 30 days of notification, the permit holder, the
owner, his agent or the person having charge of the work, shall apply for a
permit extension, arrange for final inspection of the project, file an appeal
to the Residential Board of Appeals or remove all construction done to that
point restoring the site to the condition before work was done. If requested,
the Building Official may grant for just cause, one, but not more than two,
extensions for an additional period not to exceed 90 days each.
   If the permit holder, the owner, his agent, or the person having charge of
the work does not remedy the abandoned permit within the stipulated 30 days,
the Building Official may declare any partially completed work a public
nuisance and may begin proceedings to eliminate a public nuisance as provided
by local or state law.
 
109.3.1 Permit Extension - A permittee holding an unexpired permit may apply
for a one- time 180 day extension, provided the permittee can show good and
satisfactory reasons beyond permittee's control that the work cannot be
commenced within the 180 day period from the original permit issue date. No
additional fee is required for this one-time extension.
 
109.3.2 Permit Renewal - A permit which has expired for 180 days or less may be
renewed provided no changes have been made in the original plans and
specifications for such work. The renewal fee shall be one half the amount
required for a new permit. Permits which have been expired for greater than 180
days require a new application and payment of the full permit fee.
 
109.3.3  Permit Validity - The issuance of a permit shall not authorize the
violation of any of the provisions of this code or of any other city ordinance.
The Building Official is also authorized to prevent occupancy or use of a
structure when in violation of this Code or any other ordinances of this city.
 
109.4   - Previous Approvals. Nothing in the code shall require changes in the
plans, construction, or designated use of a building for which a lawful permit
has been issued or otherwise lawfully authorized before the effective date of
the code, provided that work under such permit or authorization is under active
prosecution upon such date, or is actively prosecuted within 90 days after such
date, and that all work thereunder is completed, as so authorized, within two
years after the date thereof or duly authorized extension of time; provided
however, that if the work has been diligently prosecuted, an extension of time
shall be granted for the completion of such work which shall permit its
completion in accordance with the original permit.
 
109.5   - Approved Papers. All approved plans, specifications and other papers
filed with the application for permit shall be so stamped or endorsed by the
Building Official and one set shall be returned to the applicant for a permit.
The stamped copies shall be kept at the building or work site until the project
has been completed. True copies of all or as many of the drawings,
specifications and statements as determined by the Building Official shall
become public records.
 
109.6   - Revocation of Permits. The Building Official may revoke any permit or
approval issued under the provisions of this code or may stop the work on an
entire project or a portion of a project for any of the following reasons:
      1.   Whenever there is a violation of any provision of this code and/or
statute relating to the subject matter.
      2.   Whenever the continuance of any work for which such a permit was
issued or required becomes dangerous to life or property.
      3.   Whenever there is a violation of any condition on which the issuance
of the permit of approval was based.
      4.   Wherever any false statement or misrepresentation has been made upon
the application, plans or specifications on which the issuance of the permit or
approval was based.
 
The revocation notice of the permit in every instance shall be in writing and
shall be served upon the holder of the permit, the owner, his agent or the
person having charge of the work. Any revocation notice shall also be posted
upon the building or structure in question by the Building Official. After the
notice is received or posted, it shall be unlawful for any person to proceed
with any operation for which such a permit was issued. No part of the fees for
such permit shall be returned. Revocation of a permit shall be subject to
appeal to the Board (See Section 108).
 
109.7   - Approval in Part. The Building Official may issue a permit for the
construction of foundations or any other part of a building or structure before
the entire plans and specifications for the whole building have been submitted.
The holder of such permit for the foundations or other part of the building or
structure shall proceed at his own risk with the building construction and
without assurance that a permit for the entire structure will be granted.
 
SECTION 110-PLANS
 
110.1   - Information on Plans: When required by the Building Official, plans
shall be drawn to scale and shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the
nature and extent of the work proposed and shall show in detail that it will
conform to the provisions of this code and all relevant laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations. Electronic media documents are permitted to be submitted when
approved by the Building Official. Plans shall include a plot plan drawn to
scale showing the location of all easements, drainage facilities, adjacent
grades, property lines, the proposed building including foundations plans,
floor plans, all elevations, sections and details to adequately describe the
work and the location and use. The name, address and telephone number of the
person preparing the plans shall appear on the plans. The design loads shall be
clearly indicated on the plans.
 
110.2   - Amended Plans: Work shall be constructed in accordance with the
approved plans, and any changes made during construction that are not in
compliance with the approved plans shall be resubmitted for approval as an
amendment to the construction documents.
 
110.3   - Plans on Job Required: A copy of approved plans when required by the
Building Official shall be kept on the site of the building or work at the time
of inspection.
 
SECTION 111-INSPECTIONS
 
111.1   - Types of Inspections. For on-site construction, from time to time,
the Building Official, upon notification from the permit holder or his or her
agents shall make or cause to be made any necessary inspections and shall
either approve that portion of the construction as completed or shall notify
the permit holder or his agent wherein the same fails to comply with this code.
 
111.1.1  - Foundation Inspection. Commonly made after poles or piers are set or
trenches or basement areas are excavated and forms erected and any required
reinforcing steel is in place and prior to the placing of concrete. The
foundation inspection shall include excavations for thickened slabs intended
for the support of bearing walls, partitions, structural supports, or equipment
and special requirements for wood foundations.
 
111.1.2 - Plumbing, Mechanical and Electrical. Rough Inspection of plumbing,
mechanical and electrical shall be made prior to covering or concealment,
before fixtures are set, and prior to framing inspection.
 
111.1.3 - Other Inspections. In addition to the called inspections above, the
building department may make or require any other inspections to ascertain
compliance with this code and other laws enforced by the building department.
 
111.1.4 Fire-Resistance-Rated Construction Inspection. Where fire-resistance-
rated construction is required between dwelling units, or due to location on
property, the Building Official shall require an inspection of such
construction after all lathing and/or wall board is in place, but before any
plaster is applied, or before wall board joints and fasteners are taped and
finished.
 
111.1.5 - Final Inspection. Commonly made after building is completed and ready
for occupancy. Occupancy may not occur without a final inspection and approval.
 
111.2   - Approval Required. Work shall not be done on any part of the building
or structure beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without
first obtaining the written approval of the Building Official. Such written
approval shall be given only after an inspection shall have been made of each
successive step in the construction as indicated by each of the inspections
required above.
 
In addition to any other penalty provided for in this code, the permit holder
shall expose, at his expense, any work which is covered without the approval of
the Building Official.
 
111.3.   - The Building Official may request, and if requested, the permit
holder shall provide evidence of lot boundaries.
 
111.4.   - Occupancy Approval: Occupancy may not occur without a final
inspection and approval.
 
111.4.1. - New Buildings: A dwelling unit hereafter erected shall not be used
or occupied in whole or in part until the Certificate of Occupancy has been
issued by the Building Official.
 
111.4.2. - Additions, Alteration, Accessory Structures: A dwelling unit
hereafter added to or altered, and residential accessory buildings shall not be
used or occupied, in whole or in part, until a final inspection is approved,
except that any use or occupancy which was not discontinued during the work of
alteration shall require a final inspection and approval within thirty (30)
days of the completion of the alteration.
 
111.4.3. - Temporary Occupancy: Upon the request of the holder of a permit, the
Building Official may issue a Temporary Certificate for a building or
structure, in part thereof, before the entire work covered by the permit shall
have been completed, provided such portion or portions may be occupied safely
prior to full compliance of the building or structure without endangering life
or public welfare. Temporary occupancy approval shall be valid for a time
period determined by the Building Official. Use or occupancy of a structure
after a Temporary Certificate of Occupancy has expired, and without obtaining
final occupancy approval, shall be a violation of this Code.
 
SECTION 112-PREFABRICATED CONSTRUCTION
 
A certificate of approval by an approved agency shall be furnished with every
prefabricated assembly, except where all elements of the assembly are readily
accessible to inspection at the site. Placement of prefabricated assemblies at
the building site shall be inspected by the Building Official to determine
compliance with this code, and a final inspection shall be provided in
accordance with Section 111.1.5.
 
NOTE: Provisions for foundation systems and building service equipment
connections necessary to provide for the installation of new manufactured homes
on privately owned (non-rental) lots and existing manufactured homes to which
additions, alterations or repairs are made are contained in Appendix C and
shall be enforced only when specifically adopted by the jurisdiction.
 
SECTION 113-PERMIT CARD
 
The permit holder or his agent shall post the permit card on the job site in an
accessible and conspicuous place. The card shall be maintained by the permit
holder until the final inspection has been made and approved.
 
SECTION 114-EXISTING STRUCTURES
 
114.1   - Continuation of Existing Use - Buildings and structures in existence
at the time of the adoption of this code shall be permitted to have their
existing use continued if such use was legal at the time of the adoption of
this code, provided such use is not dangerous to life.
 
114.2   - Addition, Alteration or Repairs - Addition, alterations or repairs to
any structure shall conform to that required of a new structure without
requiring the existing structure to comply with all of the requirements of this
code, unless otherwise stated. Additions, alterations or repairs shall not
cause an existing structure to become unsafe or adversely affect the
performance of the building. Any building plus new additions shall not exceed
the height in stories specified for new buildings in Section 103.
 
114.3   - Structural and Fire-Resistance Rated Limits - Alterations or repairs
to an existing structure which are structural or adversely affect any
structural member or any part of the structure having a required fire-
resistance rating shall be made with materials required for a new structure.
 
114.4   - Unsafe Buildings - When a building is found to be unsafe, unsanitary
or deficient because of inadequate means of egress facilities, inadequate light
and ventilation, or which constitutes a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous
to human life or the public welfare, or which involve illegal or improper
occupancy or inadequate maintenance, shall be deemed an unsafe condition.
Unsafe structures shall be razed and removed or made safe, as the Building
Official deems necessary. A vacant structure that is not secured against entry
shall be deemed unsafe.
 
Where the Building Official finds that a building is a serious hazard and the
owner of such building fails in the time specified in a written notice from the
Building Official, to eliminate such hazard, or to vacate or raze the building,
the Building Official shall proceed under Section 107.4 of this Code and the
Ohio Building Code.
 
If an unsafe condition is found, the Building Official shall serve on the
owner, agent or person in control of the structure, a written notice that
describes the unsafe condition and specifies the repairs or improvements to be
made to abate the unsafe condition, or that requires the unsafe structure to be
demolished within a stipulated time.
 
Such notice shall be properly serviced if a copy thereof is: a) personally
delivered to the owner; b) sent by certified or registered mail to the owner at
the last known address with return receipt required; or c) delivered in any
other manner as prescribed by law. If the certified or registered letters is
returned showing that the letter was not delivered, a copy of the letter shall
be posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such
notice.
 
SECTION 115 - MODIFICATIONS
 
115.1   Practical Difficulties - When there are practical difficulties involved
in carrying out the provision of this Code, the Building Official shall be
permitted to grant modifications for individual cases. The Building Official
shall first find that a special individual reason renders the strict letter of
this Code impractical and that the modification is in conformity with the
intent and purpose of this Code and that such modification does not lessen
health, life safety and fire safety requirements. The details of actions
granting modifications shall be recorded and entered in the file of the code
enforcement agency.
 
SECTION 116 - LIABILITY
 
116.1   - Relief for Personal Responsibility - The Building Official or the
Building Official's authorized representative, acting in good faith and without
malice in the discharge of his or her duties required by this Code or other
pertinent law or ordinance, shall not be personally liable for any damage that
occurs to persons or property as a result of any act or by reason of any act or
omission in the discharge of his or her official duties. This Code shall not
relieve or lessen the responsibility of an owner, operator or contractor of a
building for any damage to the person or property incurred by defects, nor
shall the building department or the city be held to assume any such liability
by reason or inspection or permits authorized by this Code.
 
SECTION 117 - STOP WORK ORDERS
 
117.1   - General - Upon notice from the Building Official that work on any
building structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system that is
being done contrary to the provisions of this Code or in an unsafe and
dangerous manner, such work shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in
writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or to the owner's
agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall state the specific violations
and the conditions under which work shall be permitted to be resumed. The
Building Official shall post the notice on the jobsite. It shall not be
obstructed, defaced or removed. Only the Building Official may remove it. Where
an emergency exists, the Building Official shall not be required to give a
written notice prior to stopping the work.
 
1304.01 PENALTY.
   Any person found in violation of any of the requirements contained in this
Chapter
1304  shall be deemed to have committed a minor misdemeanor. (Ord. 4391, passed
12/1/97).
Legislative History: Ord. 4292, Passed 5/1/95; Ord. 4419, dated 8/10/98 and
which repeals Ord. 4292; Ord. 4505, passed 5/6/02, effective 6/6/02; Ord. 4568,
passed 1/10/05, effective 2/1/05.
 
TITLE FIVE - Local Provisions
      Chapter
1321    Swimming and Other Pools
      Chapter
1322    Moving of Building
      Chapter
1325    Numbering Buildings
      Chapter
1329    Plumbers
      Chapter
1331    Unreasonable Noises in Construction
      Chapter
1333    Minimum Floor Area
      Chapter
1335    (Reserved for possible future use)
      Chapter
1337    Air Conditioning Systems
      Chapter
1339    Driveways
      Chapter
1341    Sidewalks
      Chapter
1343    Traffic Studies
      Chapter
1345    Fences
CHAPTER 1321
Swimming and Other Pools
1321.01   Fence required; covers.
1321.02   Erection of pools; permit fees.
1321.99    Penalty.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Fences - see GEN. OFF.
517.07
 
 
1321.01 FENCE REQUIRED, COVERS.
   The owner of property on which there is located any swimming or other type
of pool that contains twenty-four inches or more of water in depth at any
point, including but not limited to hot tubs, shall erect and maintain a fence
with a minimum height of at least four (4) feet or other adequate enclosure
surrounding the pool area (or the entire property on which the pool is located)
sufficient to make the body of water inaccessible to small children. Fence
materials shall be consistent with the requirements of section 1115.01 of the
codified ordinances.
   On lots containing at least forty thousand (40,000) square feet any such
pool need not be surrounded by an enclosure, however, to the extent it is
equipped with a removable cover capable of being locked and having a load
capacity at least equal to that set forth in "Standard performance
specification for safety covers and labeling requirements for all covers for
swimming pools, spas and hot tubs" published by the American Society for
Testing and Materials and designated as F 1346-91, or as modified which
standard is incorporated herein by reference as if fully rewritten.
    The cover must be kept locked when the pool is not in actual use or when it
is unattended. (Amended by Ord. 4407, passed 3/2/98).
   
1321.02 ERECTION OF POOLS; PERMIT FEE.
   With respect to above-ground swimming pools, as set by the City Manager
under Chapter
153  of the Administrative Code, the City, in issuing any required permit for
the erection and/or inspection of such pools shall charge a fee.
1321.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) or imprisoned for not more than
thirty days, or both, for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed to
have been committed upon each day during or on which the violation occurs or
continues.
Legislative History: Ord. 2386, passed 10/4/65; Ord. 2413, passed, 2/21/66;
Ord. 2532, passed 2/5/68; Ord. 3723, passed 2/1/88; Ord. 4008, passed 10/15/90;
Ord. 4407, passed 3/2/98.
 
CHAPTER 1322
Moving of Buildings
1322.01   Permit required; bond and expenses
1322.99    Penalty
 
 
CROSS REFERENCE
      Power to license house movers -- see Ohio R.C. 715.27(C)
      Relocation and demolition of building -- see Chapter
1303.
 
 
1322.01 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE, BOND AND EXPENSES.
   No person, firm, corporation or institution shall move any building or part
thereof over or upon any of the streets, alleys, public easements or rights-of-
way or occupy any part thereof within the corporate limits of the City without
first having filed an application in writing with the City Manager for the
purpose of procuring a permit, as required by Section
1303.01, and in addition thereto, submitting an amount equal to the reasonable
expectations of damages to such streets or any structure including, but not
limited to, trees, poles and drainage appurtenances located within the rights-
of-way of the City. Further, the applicant shall be required to indemnify the
City against any loss or damages that may be incurred by the moving or the
tearing down of such buildings by giving a bond in the amount fixed by the City
Manager conditioned upon the aforesaid purposes. The City Manager is hereby
directed to promulgate such reasonable rules and regulations as is necessary to
protect the City in these cases. Such rules and regulations shall include but
not be limited to the routes to be taken for such moving, protective devices to
keep the public free from harm and approval of types of equipment to be used in
such operation. In addition to the bond, the mover shall be charged for those
reasonable expenses incurred by the City in ascertaining that the operation is
done in a safe and property manner.
1322.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than
twenty- five dollars ($25.00) for the first offense and not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second
offense. Each day that the violation continues under this chapter shall be a
separate offense.
Legislative History: Ord. 2611, passed 2-3-69.
CHAPTER 1325
Numbering Buildings
1325.01   All structures to be numbered.
1325.02   Assignment of numbers.
1325.03   New streets; map; numbering.
1325.04    Application for number.
1325.99    Penalty.
 
CROSS REFERENCE
      Power to regulate building numbering - see Ohio R. C. 715.26
 
 
1325.01 ALL STRUCTURES TO BE NUMBERED.
   All residences, business houses, shops and other structures fronting on the
streets, avenues, lanes or public highways in the City shall be numbered in
accordance with this chapter.
1325.02 ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS.
   It shall be the duty of the City Manager or his authorized representative to
perform the services herein required in connection with the numbering herein
provided for.
   The property situated on the easterly and southerly sides of streets shall
received the even numbers, and property on the westerly and northerly sides
thereof shall receive the odd numbers.
   A number shall be assigned to each twenty feet of property fronting on
streets. If a block does not exceed 500 feet between intersecting streets, 100
numbers shall be assigned thereto.
   The plat of the streets of the City showing the property fronting thereon,
and having numbers assigned thereto, and on file with the Clerk as of the date
of this chapter (Ord. 141, passed 4-6-14), is approved an adopted, and all
structures now on the property shown on such map shall be numbered in
accordance therewith and, as buildings are hereafter constructed on any of such
property, they shall receive numbers in accordance with such plat.
   Whenever a new street is laid out in the City, a map thereof assigning
numbers to the property abutting thereon shall be made and filed with the City
Manager or his authorized representative, and structures on the property
fronting thereon shall be numbered in accordance with the map thereof.
1325.04 APPLICATION FOR NUMBER.
   The owner of any structure in the City which is required to be numbered
shall apply to the City Manager or his authorized representative for the number
thereof and shall then procure and attach to such structure, in a prominent
place where it will be easily legible from the highway in front of the
premises, the appropriate number in metal figures not less than three inches
high.
1325.99 PENALTY.
   The owner of any structure who violates a provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a minor misdemeanor. The fine for the first such violation shall not
exceed $25.00.
Legislative History:   Ord. 141, passed 4/6/14; Ord. 3576, passed 9/15/86.
CHAPTER 1329
Plumbers
1329.01 Plumber's registration required.
1329.02 Exception.
1329.99 Penalty.
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Power to license - see Ohio R.C. 715.27
 
 
1329.01 PLUMBER'S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of plumbing or do any plumbing in the
City without first being registered to do so. The fee shall be set by the City
Manager under Chapter
153  of the Administrative Code.
1329.02 EXCEPTION.
   Any person holding a registration from the City of Kettering to engage in
the business of plumbing in such City may engage in a like business in the City
of Oakwood.
1329.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
fifty dollars ($50.00).
Legislative History:   Ord. 168, passed 8/17/14, Ord. 4007, passed 10/15/90,
effective 11/15/90; Ord. 4505, passed 5/6/02, effective 6/6/02.
CHAPTER 1331
Unreasonable Noises in Construction
 
1331.01 Noisy construction and maintenance work prohibited during certain
hours.
1331.02 Directing or permitting such construction prohibited.
1331.03   Operation of machinery prohibited during certain hours.
1331.04   Directing or permitting such operation prohibited.
1331.99   Penalty.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCE
         Disturbing the peace - see GEN. OFF.
509.02
 
 
1331.01   NOISY CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE WORK PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN
HOURS.
   No person shall engage in any labor in the construction, maintenance,
improvement or repair of any building, structure or tract of land in the City
on a weekday or Saturday after the hour of 9:00 p.m. at the prevailing time, or
before 7:00 a.m., at the prevailing time, or on a Sunday or holiday after 9:00
p.m. or before 9:00 a.m. At the prevailing time, if in the performance of such
labor any noise therefrom is audible outside the building, structure or the
borders of such tract of land, other than emergency activities.
1331.02 DIRECTING OR PERMITTING SUCH CONSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   No contractor, builder, foreman or other person directing the performance of
labor upon any building or structure shall order, direct or permit any person
under his control or direction to perform any labor in the construction,
improvement or repair of any building or structure in the City during hours
prohibited by Section
1331.01, if, in the performance of any such labor, any noise therefrom is
audible outside of the building or structure.
1331.03 OPERATION OF MACHINERY PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS.
   No person shall operate any excavating machinery or dirt moving machinery in
the City except during the hours permitted under Section
1331.01.
 
1331.04 DIRECTING OR PERMITTING SUCH OPERATION PROHIBITED.
   No contractor, builder, foreman or other person directing the operation of
excavating machinery or dirt moving machinery shall order, direct or permit any
person under his direction or control to operate any such machinery during
hours prohibited under Section
1331.01 above.
1331.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
twenty-five dollars ($25.00). Each calendar day during which such violation
occurs shall be deemed a separate offense.
Legislative History:   Ord. 1316, passed 9-16-40; Ord. 2575, passed 7-15-68;
Ord. 3111,
passed 12-17-79
 
 
CHAPTER 1333
Minimum Floor Area
1333.01   One-, Two- and Three-Family Dwellings
1333.02   Multi-Family Dwellings
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
General building limitations - see Art. 3, Uniform Building
Occupancy load - see 608.0, Uniform Building Code
Minimum floor space - see HSG. 1711.01
 
 
1333.01 ONE-, TWO- AND THREE-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   No single-family, two-family or three-family dwelling shall be constructed
within the City unless the floor area is at least one thousand square feet of
clear living space per dwelling unit, exclusive of open porches, garages,
closets and steps. Basements may be included toward this 1,000 square foot
requirement for single-family and two-family dwellings only if they meet the
requirements of the Housing Code applicable to such dwelling.
1333.02 MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   No multi-family dwelling may be constructed within the City unless the floor
area is at least seven hundred and fifty square feet of clear living space per
dwelling unit, exclusive of open porches, garages, closets, steps and areas
common to all dwelling units.
Legislative History: Ord. 2759, passed 9/13/71; Ord. 3179, passed 1/19/81.
CHAPTER 1335
Chapter reserved for possible future use.
 
CHAPTER 1337
Air Conditioning Systems
1337.01   Certain units to discharge into storm sewers.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Sewage discharge - see S. & P.S.
913.02, 917.01
Storm sewers - see S. & P.S. Ch. 917
 
 
1337.01 CERTAIN UNITS TO DISCHARGE INTO STORM SEWERS
   Any and all air conditioning units which, when in operation, discharge
thirty gallons of water or more each day must be so connected that all such
water is discharged into the storm sewer system of the City rather than into
any sanitary sewer line.
Legislative History: Ord. 2588, passed 11/4/68.
CHAPTER 1339
Driveways
1339.01   Ribbon driveways prohibited.
1339.02   Permits required.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Administrators (BOCA) Code, as set forth in Section 4101: 2-1-09 of the Ohio
Administrative Code (OAC), sometimes referred to as the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
 
 
1339.01 RIBBON DRIVEWAYS PROHIBITED.
   All driveways shall be constructed of any material with weight bearing
capacity of not less than 1,000 PSI (pounds per square inch) in the form of a
continuously abutting surface that connects the driveway apron on the street
right-of-way to the garage, carport, or an outdoor location at which a vehicle
may be stored. Driveways with ribbons or tracks of any such material separated
by grass or some other material with lesser weight bearing capacity shall not
be permitted.
1339.02 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No construction shall be commenced toward the installation of a driveway
until and unless the City has issued a permit for such work. Fees for such
permit shall be charged under Chapter
153  of the Administrative Code of this city.
Legislative History: Ord. 3432, passed 7/9/84; Ord. 4505, passed 5/6/02,
effective 6/6/02.
CHAPTER 1341
Sidewalks
1341.01   Authority to require sidewalks.
 
 
1341.01 AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE SIDEWALKS.
   Issuance of a building permit for a new residential structure may be
conditioned upon a sidewalk being installed at the expense of the permit
applicant, to the extent such a requirement is based upon vehicular and
pedestrian traffic reasonably to be expected in the neighborhood and upon all
other conditions within the applicable block.
Legislative History: Ord. 3559, passed 7/14/86.
CHAPTER 1343
Traffic Studies
1343.01   Traffic studies required.
 
 
CROSS REFERENCES
Authority of City Manager to adopt traffic regulations regarding acceleration
of de-acceleration lanes and other traffic devices:
305.03.
 
 
1343.01 TRAFFIC STUDIES REQUIRED.
   In populous, in high traffic and in business areas where there are traffic
control problems that will be intensified by permitting additional construction
or change in use of a property if a permit is requested for such additional
construction or change in use, the City Manager shall have authority to require
the permit applicant to submit a traffic study by a duly qualified traffic
engineer and reviewed (at the applicant's expense under Chapter
152  of the Administrative Code) by the City's engineer or a consultant
selected by the city.
   This study shall set forth the factual assumptions upon which it is based,
shall include scale drawings to the extent required by the Manager and shall
include the name, title, education and experience of the traffic engineer who
made the study.
   Such a traffic study shall express conclusions as to the various traffic
control designs and devices that may be necessary or appropriate.
Legislative History: Ord. 3595, passed 11/3/86; Ord. 4505, passed 5/6/02,
effective 6/6/02.
CHAPTER 1345
Fences
1345.01   Construction and Reconstruction of Fences.
 
 
1345.01 CONSTRUCTION AND RECONSTRUCTION OF FENCES.
   Materials used in the construction or reconstruction of fences shall be
limited to fencing materials described in the Zoning Code as being permitted
for new fences. The construction or reconstruction of any fences shall be
accomplished in such a manner that the relationship of a smooth side of the
fence and of a rough or protruding side of the fence to abutting properties is
as required by the Zoning Code for new fences.
Legislative History: Ord. 3966, passed 6/4/90.
CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF OAKWOOD
PART FIFTEEN - FIRE PREVENTION CODE
Chap.
1501. Ohio Fire Code.
CHAPTER 1501
Ohio Fire Code
1501.01    Ohio Fire Code.
 
 
 
1501.01 2007 EDITION ADOPTED, AS AMENDED.
   The Ohio Fire Code, as codified in its 2007 form as Chapter 1301:7-7 of the
Ohio Administrative Code and as the same may be updated, amended, and replaced
from time to time, is hereby adopted as the fire prevention code in effect for
the city of Oakwood, and may be referenced interchangeably as the "Ohio Fire
Code," the "Oakwood Fire Code," and/or the abbreviation "OFC." The Director of
Public Safety for the city of Oakwood is hereby authorized to take any and all
action now or hereafter necessary to enforce the Ohio Fire Code.
(Ord. 4717, adopted 1/3/2011).
CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF OAKWOOD
PART SEVENTEEN - PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
The Oakwood Property Maintenance Code is based on the
® 2021 International Property Maintenance Code
Date of First Publication: September 30, 2020 First Printing: September 2020.
ISBN: 978-1-60983-971-0 (soft-cover edition)
COPYRIGHT   2020
By
INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. EXCEPT AS TO MODIFICATIONS HEREIN BY THE CITY OF OAKWOOD,
the 2021 International Property Maintenance Code is a copyrighted work owned by
the International Code Council, Inc. Without advance written permission from
the copyright owner, no part of this book may be reproduced, distributed or
transmitted in any form or by any means, including, without limitation,
electronic, optical or mechanical means (by way of example, and not limitation,
photocopying or recording by or in an information storage retrieval system).
For information on use rights and permissions, please contact: Publications,
4051 Flossmoor Road, Country Club Hills, IL 60478. Phone 1-888-ICC-SAFE (422-
7233).
Trademarks: "International Code Council," the "International Code Council"
logo, "ICC," the "ICC" logo, "International Property Maintenance Code," "IPMC"
and other names and trademarks appearing in this book are trademarks of the
International Code Council, Inc., and/or its licensors (as applicable), and may
not be used without permission.
CHAPTER 1
SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION
PART 1 - SCOPE AND APPLICATION
**** SECTION 101
SCOPE AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS ****
101.1 Title.
These regulations shall be known as the Oakwood Property Maintenance Code,
hereinafter referred to as "this code."
[A] 101.2 Scope.
The provisions of this code shall apply to all existing residential and
nonresidential structures and all existing premises and constitute minimum
requirements and standards for premises, structures, equipment and facilities
for light, ventilation, space, heating, sanitation, protection from the
elements, a reasonable level of safety from fire and other hazards, and for a
reasonable level of sanitary maintenance; the responsibility of owners, an
owner's authorized agent, operators and occupants; the occupancy of existing
structures and premises, and for administration, enforcement and penalties.
[A] 101.3 Purpose.
The purpose of this code is to establish minimum requirements to provide a
reasonable level of health, safety, property protection and general welfare
insofar as they are affected by the continued occupancy and maintenance of
structures and premises. Existing structures and premises that do not comply
with these provisions shall be altered or repaired to provide a reasonable
minimum level of health, safety and general welfare as required herein.
Additional purposes of this code include, but are not limited to, the
conservation and protection of property values throughout the city of Oakwood,
the protection and improvement of aesthetic aspects of premises and of the city
of Oakwood as a whole, and the protection against and elimination of nuisances.
[A] 101.4 Severability.
If a section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is, for any
reason, held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code.
**** SECTION 102
APPLICABILITY ****
[A] 102.1 General.
Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific
requirement, the specific requirement shall govern. Where differences occur
between provisions of this code and the referenced standards, the provisions of
this code shall apply. Where, in a specific case, different sections of this
code specify different requirements, the most restrictive shall govern.
102.2 Maintenance.
Equipment, systems, devices and safeguards required by this code or a previous
regulation or code under which the structure or premises was constructed,
altered or repaired shall be maintained in good working order. An owner,
owner's authorized agent, operator or occupant shall not cause any service,
facility, equipment or utility that is required under this section to be
removed from, shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling, except
for such temporary interruption as necessary while repairs or alterations are
in progress. The requirements of this code are not intended to provide the
basis for removal or abrogation of fire protection and safety systems and
devices in existing structures. Except as otherwise specified herein, the owner
or the owner's authorized agent shall be responsible for the maintenance of
buildings, structures and premises.
[A] 102.3 Application of other codes.
Repairs, additions or alterations to a structure, or changes of occupancy,
shall be done in accordance with the procedures and provisions of all
applicable state and/or local codes. Nothing in this code shall be construed to
cancel, modify or set aside any provision of the Oakwood Zoning Code.
[A] 102.4 Existing remedies.
The provisions in this code shall not be construed to abolish or impair
existing remedies of the jurisdiction or its officers or agencies relating to
the removal or demolition of any structure that is dangerous, unsafe and
insanitary.
[A] 102.5 Workmanship.
Repairs, maintenance work, alterations or installations that are caused
directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this code shall be executed and
installed in a workmanlike manner and installed in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions.
102.6 Structural analysis.
Where structural analysis is used to determine if an unsafe structural
condition exists, the analysis shall be permitted to use nominal strengths,
nominal loads, load effects, required strengths and limit states in accordance
with the requirements under which the structure was constructed or in
accordance with any subsequent requirement.
[A] 102.7 Historic buildings.
The provisions of this code shall not be mandatory for existing buildings or
structures duly designated as historic buildings, such as, by way of example
and not of limitation, inclusion of such building or structure on the National
Register of Historic Places, where such buildings or structures are judged by
the code official to be safe and in the public interest of health, safety and
welfare.
[A] 102.8 Referenced codes and standards.
The codes and standards referenced in this code shall be those that are listed
in Chapter 8 and considered part of the requirements of this code to the
prescribed extent of each such reference and as further regulated in Sections
102.8.1 and 102.8.2.
Exception: Where enforcement of a code provision would violate the conditions
of the listing of the equipment or appliance, the conditions of the listing
shall apply.
[A] 102.8.1 Conflicts.
Where conflicts occur between provisions of this code and the referenced
standards, the provisions of this code shall apply.
[A] 102.8.2 Provisions in referenced codes and standards.
Where the extent of the reference to a referenced code or standard includes
subject matter that is within the scope of this code, the provisions of this
code, as applicable, shall take precedence over the provisions in the
referenced code or standard.
 
[A] 102.9 Requirements not covered by code.
Requirements necessary for the strength, stability or proper operation of an
existing fixture, structure or equipment, or for the public safety, health and
general welfare, not specifically covered by this code, shall be determined by
the code official.
[A] 102.10 Application of references.
References to chapter or section numbers, or to provisions not specifically
identified by number, shall be construed to refer to such chapter, section or
provision of this code.
[A] 102.11 Other laws.
The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of
local, state or federal law.
PART 2 - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
**** SECTION 103
CODE COMPLIANCE ADMINISTRATION ****
[A] 103.1 General Administration.
Compliance with this code shall be overseen by the Building Commissioner, who
shall be assisted in its implementation, administration and enforcement by the
Code Enforcement Officer. They may be assisted as needed by other city staff,
including but not limited to the City Attorney. For purposes of this code, the
term "code official" shall refer to the Building Commissioner and, as
appropriate, to the Code Enforcement Officer acting under his or her direction.
[A] 103.2 Appointment.
The code official shall be appointed by the City Manager.
**** SECTION 104
FEES ****
[A] 104.1 Fees.
The fees for activities and services performed by the city in carrying out its
responsibilities under this code shall be as set forth in the general fee
schedule for this city, as adopted under Section
153 of the Oakwood Administrative Code and amended from time to time.
**** SECTION 105
DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE CODE OFFICIAL ****
[A] 105.1 General.
The code official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce the provisions
of this code. The code official shall have the authority to render
interpretations of this code and to adopt policies and procedures in order to
clarify the application of its provisions. Such interpretations, policies and
procedures shall be in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code.
Such policies and procedures shall not have the effect of waiving requirements
specifically provided for in this code.
 
[A]   105.2 Inspections.
The code official shall make all of the required inspections, or shall accept
reports of inspection by approved agencies or individuals. Reports of such
inspections shall be in writing and be certified by a responsible officer of
such approved agency or by the responsible individual. The code official is
authorized to engage such expert opinion as deemed necessary to report on
unusual technical issues that arise, subject to the approval of the City
Manager.
[A]   105.3 Right of entry.
Where it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of this
code, or whenever the code official has reasonable cause to believe that there
exists in a structure or upon a premises a condition in violation of this code,
the code official is authorized to enter the structure or premises at
reasonable times to inspect or perform the duties imposed by this code,
provided that if such structure or premises is occupied the code official shall
present credentials to the occupant and request entry. If such structure or
premises is unoccupied, the code official shall first make a reasonable effort
to locate the owner, owner's authorized agent or other person having charge or
control of the structure or premises and request entry. If entry is refused,
the code official shall have recourse to the remedies provided by law to secure
entry.
Furthermore:
   A.   To the extent the owner or occupant has agreed to allow the code
official access to the structure or premises, the code official shall be deemed
to be an agent of the owner or occupant.
   B.   In addition to any other remedy provided by law, if the owner,
occupant, or agent thereof does not consent to the proposed inspection, the
code official may appear before any judge in a court of competent jurisdiction
and seek an administrative search warrant to allow an inspection. Any such
application shall be made within ten (10) calendar days after the nonconsent.
The application for the warrant shall specify the basis upon which the warrant
is being sought and shall include a statement that the inspection will be
limited to a determination whether there are violations of the code provisions
identified in this section, or any other zoning, housing, or building code
under the jurisdiction of the code official.
The court may consider any of the following factors along with such other
matters as it deems pertinent in its decision as to whether a warrant shall be
issued:
      1.   Eyewitness account of violation;
      2.   Citizen complaints;
      3.   Tenant complaints;
      4.   Plain view violations;
      5.   Violations apparent from city records;
      6.   Property deterioration;
      7.   Age of property;
      8.   Nature of alleged violation;
      9.   Condition of similar properties in the area;
      10.   Documented violations on similar properties in the area;
      11.   Passage of time since last inspection;
      12.   Previous violations on the property.
 
If a warrant is issued, no owner, occupant, or agent thereof shall fail or
neglect, upon presentation of a warrant, to properly permit entry therein by
the code official or his/her duly authorized designee for the purpose of
inspection and examination pursuant to this section and consistent with the
terms of the warrant. If the court declines to issue a warrant, or if no
warrant is sought, the inspection may still take place but the scope thereof
shall be limited to such areas as are in plain view. No criminal penalty shall
attach, nor shall any certificate of occupancy be denied, solely by reason of
the owner's, occupant's, or agent's refusal to consent to an inspection.
 
[A] 105.4 Identification.
The code official shall carry proper identification when inspecting structures
or premises in the performance of duties under this code.
 
[A] 105.5 Notices and orders.
The code official shall issue all necessary notices or orders to ensure
compliance with this code.
 
[A] 105.6 Department records.
The code official shall keep official records of all business and activities of
the department specified in the provisions of this code. Such records shall be
retained in the official records for the period required for retention of
public records.
 
[A] 105.7 Liability.
The code official, member of the board of appeals or employee charged with the
enforcement of this code, while acting for the jurisdiction, in good faith and
without malice in the discharge of the duties required by this code or other
pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby be rendered civilly or criminally
liable personally, and is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any
damage accruing to persons or property as a result of an act or by reason of an
act or omission in the discharge of official duties.
 
[A] 105.7.1 Legal defense.
Any suit or criminal complaint instituted against any officer or employee
because of an act performed by that officer or employee in the lawful discharge
of duties and under the provisions of this code shall be defended by the legal
representative of the jurisdiction until the final termination of the
proceedings. The code official or any subordinate shall not be liable for costs
in an action, suit or proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the
provisions of this code.
 
**** SECTION 106
APPROVAL ****
 
[A] 106.1 Modifications.
Whenever there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the
provisions of this code, the code official shall have the authority to grant
modifications for individual cases upon application of the owner or owner's
authorized agent, provided that the code official shall first find that special
individual reason makes the strict letter of this code impractical, the
modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code and that
such modification does not lessen health, life and fire safety requirements.
The details of action granting modifications shall be recorded and entered in
the department files.
 
[A] 106.2 Alternative materials, design and methods of construction and
equipment.
The provisions of this code are not intended to prevent the installation of any
material or to prohibit any design or method of construction not specifically
prescribed by this code, provided that any such alternative has been approved.
An alternative material, design or method of construction shall be approved
where the code official finds that the proposed design is satisfactory and
complies with the intent of the provisions of this code, and that the material,
method or work offered is, for the purpose intended, not less than the
equivalent of that prescribed in this code in quality, strength, effectiveness,
fire resistance, durability and safety. Where the alternative material, design
or method of construction is not approved, the code official shall respond in
writing, stating the reasons why the alternative was not approved.
 
[A] 106.3 Required testing.
Whenever there is insufficient evidence of compliance with the provisions of
this code or evidence that a material or method does not conform to the
requirements of this code, or in order to substantiate claims for alternative
materials or methods, the code official shall have the authority to require
tests to be made as evidence of compliance without expense to the jurisdiction.
 
[A] 106.3.1 Test methods.
Test methods shall be as specified in this code or by other recognized test
standards. In the absence of recognized and accepted test methods, the code
official shall be permitted to approve appropriate testing procedures performed
by an approved agency.
 
[A] 106.3.2 Test reports.
Reports of tests shall be retained by the code official for the period required
for retention of public records.
 
[A] 106.4 Used material and equipment.
Materials that are reused shall comply with the requirements of this code for
new materials. Materials, equipment and devices shall not be reused unless such
elements are in good repair or have been reconditioned and tested where
necessary, placed in good and proper working condition and approved by the code
official.
 
[A] 106.5 Approved materials and equipment.
Materials, equipment and devices approved by the code official shall be
constructed and installed in accordance with such approval.
 
[A]   106.6 Research reports.
Supporting data, where necessary to assist in the approval of materials or
assemblies not specifically provided for in this code, shall consist of valid
research reports from approved sources.
 
**** SECTION 107
APPEALS AND VARIANCES ****
 
[A]   107.1 Appeals.
   A.   Any person aggrieved by a decision or order of the code official shall
have the right to appeal that matter to the Property Maintenance Board. To do
this, a printed or typed written notice of appeal must be signed by that person
and filed with the office of the City Manager within 14 days after the date
service of the decision or order had been completed.
 
   B.   An appeal shall be a means of obtaining a hearing on a contention that
the code official misinterpreted or misapplied some provision of this code.
 
   C.   The notice of appeal shall specify the decision or order appealed from
and shall set forth the grounds of the appeal with particularity.
 
   D.   Stay of proceedings: An appeal shall stay all proceedings on the
decision or order from which the appeal is taken, unless the code official
certifies to the Property Maintenance Board that a stay would cause imminent
peril to life or imminent risk of substantial damage to property. In the event
the code official so certifies, the proceedings to enforce the order or
decision appealed from shall not be stayed, except by an injunction or other
equitable order issued by a court, after notice to the city.
 
   E.   Hearing on appeal: The board shall select a reasonable time and place
for a hearing on the appeal. Notice of the hearing date shall be given to the
appellant and the city in the same manner as service is to be made under
Section 111.2.1. If the appellant is not the owner of the property in question,
such notice may be given to that property owner in the same manner.
 
   F.   The board may affirm, modify or reverse the order or decision appealed
from. The decision of the board on an appeal shall be limited to applying this
code; and the board may not disregard, vary or modify the code language. Any
such decision of the board shall be deemed to be a final administrative order
appealable to the courts. The city shall be deemed to be adversely affected and
aggrieved by a board decision which modifies or reverses an order or decision
of the code official, and the city shall have the right to appeal such a
decision to the court. An appeal to court shall stay enforcement proceedings in
the same manner as described in subsection D above.
 
[A]   107.2 Variances.
   A.   The Property Maintenance Board may, after a public hearing, authorize
variances from the requirements of this code.
 
   B.   An application for a variance shall be printed or typewritten, shall be
signed by the person requesting the variance, and shall be filed by the owner
of the premises with the office of the City Manager. This filing must be made
within 14 days after any order or decision of the code official was given to a
person responsible for compliance with this code. Thereafter, it shall be
transmitted, along with all pertinent papers, to the members of the Property
Maintenance Board. The application shall set forth the particular requirement
from which a variance is requested, and shall be on such form as may be
prescribed by the code official.
 
   C.   The board shall select a reasonable time and place for a hearing on the
variance request. Notice of the time and place of the public hearing shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city not less than 5 nor
more than 40 days before the hearing. Such notices shall also be mailed to the
variance applicant, to the property owner of record, and to owners of other
parcels of real estate within 200 feet of any portion of the subject premises.
   
   D.   Standards for variances: No variance shall be granted unless the board
makes findings of fact that:
 
      1.   Granting the variance will not impair an adequate supply of light or
air to adjacent properties;
      2.   Granting the variance will not significantly increase the danger of
fire or structural collapse nor significantly impair the health, safety, morals
or welfare of the occupants or the public;
      3.   Granting the variance will eliminate peculiar and practical
difficulties or undue hardship which would otherwise result upon the owner or
operator of the premises if the terms of this code were applied without such
variance;
      4.   Granting the variance will not create blight or constitute a
blighting influence on adjoining properties, tending to lead to progressive
deterioration and downgrading of the neighborhood;
       5.   Granting the variance will not diminish or impair the standards of
maintenance in this city, the value of the subject property, or property values
in the surrounding area; and
      6.   Strict enforcement of the code requirements would not further the
interests of justice, and would be contrary to the spirit and purpose of this
code or contrary to the public interest.
 
In granting a variance, the board may specify the manner and time within which
the variance shall be carried out, and may require other improvements or
safeguards or the performance of conditions deemed necessary to further and/or
respect the intent of this code. A variance decision of the board shall be
deemed to be a final administrative order, appealable to the courts. The city
shall be deemed to be adversely affected by a board decision granting a
variance, and the city shall have the right to appeal such a decision to the
court. Any appeal shall stay the effect of the variance decision until the
court case is terminated.
 
[A] 107.3 Fees for Appeals and Variances.
Fees for variances and appeals under this Property Maintenance Code shall be as
set forth in the general fee schedule for this city, as adopted under Section
153 of the Oakwood Administrative Code and amended from time to time.
 
 
**** SECTION 108
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE BOARD ****
 
[A] 108.1 Creation and Membership.
A Property Maintenance Board is hereby created. It shall consist of persons
appointed by the City Council as members, three (3) residing in each of the
official voting precincts of the city of Oakwood. At the time this Property
Maintenance Code is enacted, there are eight (8) voting precincts, meaning the
board shall consist of twenty four (24) members, three (3) from each precinct.
In the event that the number of official voting precincts should increase or
decrease, the total number of board members shall change accordingly, provided
there shall still be three (3) members from each precinct. Also at the time
this Property Maintenance Code is enacted, there is an existing Property
Maintenance Board consisting of fifteen (15) members. In the interest of
continuity, those members shall continue to serve on the board created
hereunder, to the extent that their places of residence comport to the precinct
distribution described in this paragraph, for the remainder of the term for
which they were originally appointed. In the event that any existing board
member cannot be retained, due to place of residence, voting precinct
locations, or for other reasons, City Council may terminate that member's
existing term and appoint replacements as appropriate to effectuate this
provision.
 
[A] 108.2 Term of Office.
The terms of board members shall be for 5 years. Appointments shall be
attempted to be made in such a manner that the term of no more than one member
from any one district shall expire in any one calendar year. If any member
resigns, dies or moves out of the district from which that member was
appointed, a replacement member shall be appointed by the City Council for the
balance of the unexpired term of office.
 
[A] 108.3 Duties, Quorum, and Voting.
The board shall have the duty to hear and decide all appeals and variances
filed under this code, and shall also be responsible for authorizing the
issuance of a citation by the city when an owner, occupant or agent fails to
take remedial action to correct code violations within a reasonable period of
time as determined by the code official. The three members from each voting
precinct shall constitute the Property Maintenance Board for the purpose of
hearing appeals and variances and authorizing the issuance of citations
regarding property in that precinct. If one or more of those three persons is
unable to serve, any one or more of the remaining members of the board may be
designated by the chairperson as replacement(s) so as to provide three persons
to hear and decide each case. A majority of the full board of 15 members shall
select a chairperson. Decisions of the board on any appeal or variance shall be
made by a majority vote of the three person panel. Failure to obtain a majority
vote to reverse or modify a decision or order appealed from shall constitute
affirmance of that order. Similarly, failure to obtain a majority vote to grant
a variance shall constitute denial of the variance.
 
[A]   108.2 Burden of Proof. The person who files an appeal or a request for a
variance shall have the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence
that his appeal or variance should be granted. The board shall have subpoena
power to compel attendance of witnesses.
 
**** SECTION 109
VIOLATIONS ****
 
[A]   109.1 Unlawful acts.
 
   A.   It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to be in
conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this code.
 
   B.   Specific unlawful acts under this code shall include but are not
limited to the following:
      1.   Transfer of legal or equitable ownership of premises without having
obtained a pre-sale inspection to the extent required under this code, or
without furnishing the proposed new owner a true copy of any conditional
certificate of occupancy or other notice of violation and obtaining a signed
receipt for it, as required by this code;
      2.   With respect to rented premises, change of tenant without having
obtained a rental inspection to the extent required under this code;
      3.   Occupancy or use of any premises by a new owner or tenant without
that owner or tenant having obtained from the code official (or from the
previous owner) a valid certificate of occupancy for the premises, as required
by this code.
      4.   Failure to timely submit the information required by Section 800.3.
      5.   Operating, letting, listing, advertising, or otherwise making
available, any residential property in the city of Oakwood for transient rental
purposes, as prohibited by this code.
 
   C.   It shall be a separate unlawful act for any person, firm or corporation
(who previously committed an unlawful act as described in paragraph A or B
above, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference) to commit a
second such act, whether contrary to or in violation of exactly the same or
some other requirement of this code, within 5 years after conviction of the
previous unlawful act under paragraph A or B.
 
   D.   It shall be a separate unlawful act for any person, firm or corporation
(who previously committed an unlawful act as described in paragraph A or B
above, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference) to commit a
third or subsequent act, whether contrary to or in violation of the same of
some other requirement of this code, within 10 years after conviction of the
previous unlawful act under paragraph A or B.
 
[A] 109.2 Notice of violation.
The code official shall serve a notice of violation or order in accordance with
Section 111.4.
 
[A]   109.3 Prosecution of violation.
Any person failing to comply with a notice of violation or order served in
accordance with Section 111.4 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor or civil
infraction as determined by the local municipality, and the violation shall be
deemed a strict liability offense. If the notice of violation is not complied
with, the code official shall institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in
equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the removal
or termination of the unlawful occupancy of the structure in violation of the
provisions of this code or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto. Any
action taken by the authority having jurisdiction on such premises shall be
charged against the real estate upon which the structure is located and shall
be a lien upon such real estate.
 
[A]   109.4 Violation penalties.
Any person who shall violate a provision of this code, or fail to comply
therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, shall be prosecuted within
the limits provided by state or local laws. Each day that a violation continues
after a duly-noticed deadline for compliance shall be deemed a separate
offense.
 
   Furthermore:
   A.   Whoever commits an unlawful act as described in paragraph A or B of
Section 109.1 shall be guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor.
 
   B.   Whoever commits an unlawful act as described in paragraph C of Section
109.1 shall be guilty of a fourth degree misdemeanor.
 
   C.   Whoever commits an unlawful act as described in paragraph D of Section
109.1 shall be guilty of a third degree misdemeanor.
 
[A] 109.5 Abatement of violation.
The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude the City
Attorney from instituting appropriate action to restrain, correct or abate a
violation, or to prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or
premises, or to stop an illegal act, conduct, business or utilization of the
building, structure or premises.
 
**** SECTION 110
STOP WORK ORDER ****
 
[A] 110.1 Authority.
Where the code official finds any work regulated by this code being performed
in a manner contrary to the provisions of this code or in a dangerous or unsafe
manner, the code official is authorized to issue a stop work order.
 
[A] 110.2 Issuance.
The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the
property, to the owner's authorized agent, or to the person performing the
work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall immediately
cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order and the
conditions under which the cited work is authorized to resume.
 
[A] 110.3 Emergencies.
Where, in the opinion of the code official, an emergency exists, the code
official shall not be required to give a written notice prior to stopping the
work.
 
[A] 110.4 Failure to comply.
Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a stop
work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a
violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to fines established by the
authority having jurisdiction.
 
**** SECTION 111
UNSAFE, HAZARDOUS, OR UNLAWFUL PREMISES AND STRUCTURES ****
 
111.1   Unsafe conditions.
When a structure or equipment or premises is found by the code official to be
unsafe, or when a structure is found unfit for human occupancy, the same may be
condemned pursuant to the provisions of this code.
 
111.1.1   Unsafe structures or premises.
An unsafe structure or premises is one that is found to be dangerous to the
life, health, property or safety of the public or the occupants of the
structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect or warn occupants in
the event of fire, or because such structure contains unsafe equipment or is so
damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of such faulty
construction or unstable foundation, that partial or complete collapse is
possible.
 
111.1.2   Unsafe equipment.
Unsafe equipment includes any boiler, heating equipment, elevator, moving
stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable liquid containers or other
equipment on the premises or within the structure that is in such disrepair or
condition that such equipment is a hazard to life, health, property or safety
of the public or occupants of the premises or structure.
 
111.1.3   Structure unfit for human occupancy.
A structure is unfit for human occupancy whenever the code official finds that
such structure is unsafe, unlawful or, because of the degree to which the
structure is in disrepair or lacks maintenance, is insanitary, vermin or rat
infested, contains filth and contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination,
sanitary or heating facilities or other essential equipment required by this
code, or because the location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the
occupants of the structure or to the public. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
every premises is deemed to be unfit for human occupancy if its condition is
such that it constitutes a violation of the following sections of this code:
   A.   Chapter Three, General Requirements;
   B.   Chapter Four, Light, Ventilation and Occupancy Limitations;
   C.   Chapter Five, Plumbing Facilities and Fixture Requirements;
   D.   Chapter Six, Mechanical and Electrical Requirements; or
   E.   Chapter Seven, Fire Safety Requirements.
 
A structure found to be unfit for human occupancy or use under this section
shall be deemed to be an unsafe structure.
 
111.1.4   Unlawful structure.
An unlawful structure is one found in whole or in part to be occupied by more
persons than permitted under this code, or was erected, altered or occupied
contrary to law.
 
111.1.5   Dangerous structure or premises.
For the purpose of this code, any structure or premises that has any or all of
the conditions or defects described as follows shall be considered to be
dangerous:
 
   1.   Any door, aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or other means of egress
that does not conform to the approved building or fire code of the jurisdiction
as related to the requirements for existing buildings.
 
   2.   The walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or other
means of egress is so warped, worn loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to not
provide safe and adequate means of egress.
 
   3.   Any portion of a building, structure or appurtenance that has been
damaged by fire, earthquake, wind, flood, deterioration, neglect, abandonment,
vandalism or by any other cause to such an extent that it is likely to
partially or completely collapse, or to become detached or dislodged.
 
   4.   Any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or ornamentation
on the exterior thereof that is not of sufficient strength or stability, or is
not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be capable of resisting
natural or artificial loads of one and one-half the original designed value.
 
   5.   The building or structure, or part of the building or structure,
because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction, the removal
or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the support, or for any
other reason, is likely to partially or completely collapse, or some portion of
the foundation or underpinning of the building or structure is likely to fail
or give way.
 
   6.   The building or structure, or any portion thereof, is clearly unsafe
for its use and occupancy.
 
   7.   The building or structure is neglected, damaged, dilapidated, unsecured
or abandoned so as to become an attractive nuisance to children who might play
in the building or structure to their danger, becomes a harbor for vagrants,
criminals or immoral persons, or enables persons to resort to the building or
structure for committing a nuisance or an unlawful act.
 
   8.   Any building or structure has been constructed, exists or is maintained
in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable to such
building or structure provided by the approved building or fire code of the
jurisdiction, or of any law or ordinance to such an extent as to present either
a substantial risk of fire, building collapse or any other threat to life and
safety.
 
   9.   A building or structure, used or intended to be used for dwelling
purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay, damage,
faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, ventilation, mechanical
or plumbing system, openness to the elements and/or inclement weather and/or
animal infestation, or otherwise, is determined by the code official to be
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that is likely to
cause sickness or disease.
 
   10.   Any building or structure, because of a lack of sufficient or proper
fire-resistance-rated construction, fire protection systems, electrical system,
fuel connections, mechanical system, plumbing system or other cause, is
determined by the code official to be a threat to life or health.
 
   11.   Any portion of a building remains on a site after the demolition or
destruction of the building or structure or whenever any building or structure
is abandoned so as to constitute such building or portion thereof as an
attractive nuisance or hazard to the public.
 
111.1.6   Unlawful structure or premises.
Unlawful premises are those determined by the code official to be in whole or
in part in violation of any of the sections of this Property Maintenance Code.
All properties which are unsafe, unfit for human occupancy or otherwise in
violation of the Property Maintenance Code may be declared as public nuisances
under the common law and laws of Ohio. Such unlawful premises constitute public
nuisances by virtue of the injury and annoyance they cause to the public and
the damage they do to public interests. That injury, annoyance or damage
results from the negative impact of blight, deteriorated, defective, and
unlawful premises due to physical decay, neglect, unlawful use, and/or lack of
maintenance. Such deterioration is caused by physical decay, neglect, extensive
use, or lack of maintenance. It produces effects such as, but not limited to,
holes, breaks, cracking, peeling, and rusting.
 
111.2   Repair, closing or removal of unsafe, hazardous, or unlawful nuisance
conditions.
 
111.2.1   Unsafe, hazardous conditions - repair, closing or removal.
The code official shall give notice to order the owner of any premises (and/or
the holders of legal and/or equitable liens upon that premises) declared by
that official to be all or partly unsafe to perform such repairs as necessary
to make that premises safe, to secure any insecure structure, to close any open
and vacant structure, or, in the alternative, to demolish and remove that
structure or the unsafe aspect of the premises. Any permits required by the
Building Code or Zoning Code of this city for such repair or demolition work
must be obtained before such work is commenced. The notice giving this order
shall comply with the requirements of Section 111.4 and shall allow a
reasonable time for such corrective work or demolition and removal, including
adequate time to obtain permits, and in non-emergency situations shall provide
notice at least 30 days in advance of proposed entry onto the premises by the
city to perform that work. The notice referred to in this section shall be in
addition to, and may be combined with, the order to vacate which may be issued
for any unsafe premises as directed by Section 111.1.3.
 
111.2.2   Unlawful premises - repair.
With regard to unlawful premises constituting public nuisances (as defined
herein), the code official shall follow the same notice procedures as described
immediately above in Section 111.2.1 to order that the unlawful conditions be
repaired or removed.
 
The notice and order with regard to unlawful premises shall not provide the
alternative of demolition and removal and shall not be combined with any order
to vacate, because such orders to demolish and remove or to vacate may be
issued only for unsafe rather than unlawful premises.
 
111.2.3   Failure to comply.
Whenever there has been failure to comply, within the time required, with an
order issued under this Section 111.2 of the code, the code official may cause
the work to be performed by the city or by contract or arrangement with private
persons. Any such contract or arrangements with private persons shall comply
with city charter and ordinance requirements as to making contracts or
financial commitments on behalf of the city. Such a failure to comply means not
only a failure to complete the work within the required time but also failure
to use the alternative procedure of entering into a contract with the city
within the required time, guaranteed by a sufficient surety, to perform the
work at a later date.
 
111.2.4   Real estate tax lien, civil lawsuit, for costs incurred by city.
The cost of work required to be performed through an order referred to in
Section 111.2 shall be certified by the clerk of the City Council to the county
auditor as a tax lien in the manner prescribed in Ohio Revised Code 715.261;
and/or the city may commence a civil lawsuit to recover those costs.
 
111.3   Authority to disconnect service utilities.
The code official shall have the authority to authorize disconnection of
utility service to the building, structure or system regulated by this code and
the referenced codes and standards set forth in Section 102.8 in case of
emergency where necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property
or where such utility connection has been made without approval. The code
official shall notify the serving utility and, whenever possible, the owner or
owner's authorized agent and occupant of the building, structure or service
system of the decision to disconnect prior to taking such action. If not
notified prior to disconnection the owner, owner's authorized agent or occupant
of the building structure or service system shall be notified in writing as
soon as practical thereafter.
 
111.4   Notice.
Whenever the code official determines that there has been a violation of this
code or has grounds to believe that a violation has occurred, notice shall be
given in the manner prescribed in Sections 111.4.1 and 111.4.2 to the owner or
the owner's authorized agent, for the violation as specified in this code.
Notices for condemnation procedures shall comply with this section.
 
111.4.1   Form.
   Such notice shall be in accordance with all of the following:
   1.   Be in writing.
 
   2.   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for identification.
 
   3.   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the notice
is being issued.
 
   4.   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time to make the
repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into
compliance with the provisions of this code.
 
   5.   Inform the property owner or owner's authorized agent of the right to
appeal.
 
   6.   Include a statement of the right to file a lien in accordance with
Section 109.3.
 
   7.   If the notice is in the form of a conditional occupancy certificate
(resulting from a pre-sale or rental inspection under this Code) which lists
aspects of the premises not in compliance with other sections of this code, it
shall include an explanation of the certificate of occupancy procedures and the
possibility of the owner shifting responsibility for correcting those unsafe or
unlawful items to the new owner through a written agreement between the parties
as provided under this Code.
 
   8.   The notice of any violation and of the requirement that it be corrected
shall provide at least 30 days prior notice of the fact that, if the corrective
work has not been completed within the reasonable time allowed in the
correction order which is part of the notice, the city may elect to enter upon
the premises under authority of this Code to perform the work required by the
notice.   Such advance notice may be reduced or dispensed with as explained in
Section 112 dealing with emergency situations.   This type of advance notice
provides a basis for the city to recover (through the procedures described in
Ohio Revised Code 715.261) any costs it may incur in correcting unsafe
structures or hazardous conditions or abating unlawful conditions as nuisances.
 
   9.   The notice shall give an explanation of the fact that, as an
alternative to performing the correction work within the reasonable time
allowed in the notice (and to avoid the city entering upon the property to
perform that work if the owner fails to do so), the owner or any lienholder of
record may enter into a written contract with the city in which that owner or
lienholder gives a written promise, guaranteed by a sufficient surety (as
described below), that the work will be completed within such additional
reasonable time as may be agreed to between those parties.   Such a sufficient
surety must be a performance bond, letter of credit or cash deposited with the
city in the amount of one and one-half times the cost of the work, as
reasonably estimated by the city, with the terms, conditions and issuing
company or bank to be satisfactory to the city attorney.
 
   10.   The notice shall include an explanation of the intention of the city
to recover the costs it may incur in correcting such unsafe, hazardous, or
unlawful nuisance conditions through certifying those costs to the county
auditor to be placed as a real estate tax lien against the premises (under Ohio
Revised Code 715.261 as referred to above) and/or to commence a civil lawsuit
to recover those costs from the owner and/or to use other legal remedies to
enforce this code.
 
111.4.2   Method of service.
Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served where a copy thereof is
served in accordance with any one or more of the following methods, reasonably
calculated to reach the owner, owner's agent, or person responsible for the
premises or structure:
 
   1.   A copy is delivered personally.
 
   2.   A copy is sent by certified or registered mail addressed to the owner
at the last known address with the return receipt requested.
 
   3.   A copy is posted in a conspicuous location at the subject property.
 
   4.   A notice, in summary form, is published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city.
 
   5.   A copy is serviced personally or residentially by an officer of the
Public Safety Department of the city.
 
   6.   A notice is sent by electronic mail, where the email address of the
owner or owner's authorized agent is known.
 
Service of such notice in the foregoing manner upon the owner's agent or upon
the person responsible for the premises or structure shall constitute service
of notice upon the owner.
 
111.5   Unauthorized tampering.
Signs, tags or seals posted or affixed by the code official shall not be
mutilated, destroyed or tampered with, or removed without authorization from
the code official.
 
111.6   Transfer of ownership.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling unit or structure who has
received a compliance order or upon whom a notice of violation has been served
to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or otherwise dispose of such dwelling unit
or structure to another until the provisions of the compliance order or notice
of violation have been complied with, or until such owner or the owner's
authorized agent shall first furnish the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or
lessee a true copy of any compliance order or notice of violation issued by the
code official and shall furnish to the code official a signed and notarized
statement from the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee, acknowledging the
receipt of such compliance order or notice of violation and fully accepting the
responsibility without condition for making the corrections or repairs required
by such compliance order or notice of violation.
 
111.6.1   Pre-sale inspection program and Certificate of Occupancy required for
new owners and tenants.
 
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any real estate premises to
transfer legal or equitable ownership of that premises ("title"), or change of
tenant, without having obtained a pre-sale inspection of it under this
code.   This inspection will enable the code official to work toward
accomplishing the purposes of this code by listing any repairs or other work
necessary to eliminate any unsafe or hazardous conditions, to comply with
applicable requirements of the Fire Code, Zoning Code and other ordinances, and
also to correct any unlawful nuisance conditions in the form of violations of
this Property Maintenance Code.   Such an inspection and list shall be part of
the process of issuing the required certificate of occupancy.
 
   B.   Application for a pre-sale inspection shall be made on such form and in
such manner as may be prescribed from time to time by the code official. The
city may charge a fee for this service as provided for under Chapter
153.
 
   C.   Within 21 days after application was made for a pre-sale inspection,
the code official shall have completed the inspection, compiled a list of any
items to be brought into compliance with this code and applicable provisions of
the Fire Code, Zoning Code and other ordinances, and shall have issued a
violation letter to the owner or lienholder of a premises. This period of time
may be extended by the code official if a delay is caused by any matter beyond
the reasonable control of that official.
 
   D.   A certificate of occupancy shall be valid for one year after the
violations have been corrected to the satisfaction of the code official or
until 60 days after the premises may be transferred to a new owner or tenant,
whichever occurs sooner.
 
   E.   Any rental unit inspection required under this chapter may be waived by
the code official, and an occupancy certificate may be granted without such
inspection, so long as all of the following conditions are met:
 
      1.   The subject property has already undergone a pre-sale or rental unit
inspection during the twelve (12) months immediately prior to the most recent
change of tenant;
 
      2.   The city has not received any zoning or property maintenance
complaints about the subject property during the twelve (12) months immediately
prior to the most recent change of tenant; and
 
      3.   The property owner is otherwise in compliance with all requirements
of this Property Maintenance Code, including but not limited to the timely
provision of Tenant Information forms with each change of tenant at the
property.
 
   F.   If the owner, occupant, or agent thereof does not consent to the
proposed inspection, the code official may appear before any judge in a court
of competent jurisdiction and seek an administrative search warrant to allow an
inspection. Any such application shall be made within ten (10) calendar days
after the nonconsent. The application for the warrant shall specify the basis
upon which the warrant is being sought and shall include a statement that the
inspection will be limited to a determination whether there are violations of
the code provisions identified in this section. The court may consider any of
the following factors along with such other matters as it deems pertinent in
its decision as to whether a warrant shall issue:
 
      1.   Eyewitness account of violation;
      2.   Citizen complaints;
      3.   Tenant complaints;
      4.   Plain view violations;
      5.   Violations apparent from city records;
      6.   Property deterioration;
      7.   Age of property;
      8.   Nature of alleged violation;
      9.   Condition of similar properties in the area;
      10.   Documented violations on similar properties in the area;
      11.   Passage of time since last inspection;
      12.   Previous violations on the property.
 
If a warrant is issued, no owner, occupant, or agent thereof shall fail or
neglect, upon presentation of a warrant, to properly permit entry therein by
the code official or his/her duly authorized designee for the purpose of
inspection and examination pursuant to this section and consistent with the
terms of the warrant. If the court declines to issue a warrant, or if no
warrant is sought, the inspection shall still take place but the scope thereof
shall be limited to such areas as are in plain view.   A limited-scope
inspection conducted pursuant to this paragraph shall be considered an
"inspection" for all purposes of the pre-sale inspection program set forth in
this section. No criminal penalty shall attach, nor shall any certificate of
occupancy be denied, solely by reason of the owner's, occupant's, or agent's
refusal to consent to a full inspection.
 
A certificate of occupancy signed by the code official shall be evidence that
the premises complies with the requirements of this code and all other
applicable ordinances, provided however, that if a limited-scope inspection is
conducted pursuant to subsection E above, the certificate of occupancy shall
note that fact and shall not constitute evidence of code compliance as to any
uninspected portions of the premises. If the inspection disclosed aspects of
the property not in compliance, the certificate shall be merely a conditional
certificate of occupancy. The condition shall be that the defective aspects of
the premises must be brought into compliance with this code within such
reasonable length of time as may be set forth in the certificate.
 
Such a conditional certificate shall be deemed to be a notice under this code
that the premises and its owners are in violation of this code or other
applicable ordinances and that the unsafe, hazardous, or unlawful conditions
must be corrected. The certificate shall constitute a notice, as referred to in
Section 111.4, and shall include all matters required by that section.
 
111.6.2   Responsibility for making repairs.
The responsibility for making repairs or completing such work as may be
necessary to correct any defective aspects of the premises shall rest upon the
person who was the owner immediately prior to the inspection which was the
basis for the notice. Such responsibility may be shifted to a new owner by a
written agreement in which that new owner assumes the responsibility, after
having been given a copy of the conditional certificate of occupancy including
the list of violations. A signed copy of such an agreement shall be filed with
the code official. A written assumption by the new owner shall release the
previous owner from responsibility to the city under this code.
 
If responsibility is so assumed, the new owner shall be obligated to comply
with the requirements of the conditional certificate of occupancy within the
time required by the code official.
 
A new owner who does not assume such responsibility but instead relies upon the
prior owner being obligated to correct violations identified during an
inspection of the premises takes the risk that the prior owner may fail to do
so as and when required. If that occurs, the new owner is at risk because any
unsafe structure on the premises must be ordered to be vacated under provisions
of this code. Further, the conditional certificate of occupancy constitutes a
repair, closing or removal order under other provisions of this code, to remedy
any unsafe, hazardous or any unlawful nuisance condition, with the expenses of
such a procedure to be assessed against the premises as part of real estate
taxes on that property.
 
111.6.3   City utility bills to be paid immediately as a condition of occupancy
certificate.
To obtain either a certificate of occupancy or a conditional certificate of
occupancy, all outstanding water and sewer bills for the property must be paid
at once and in full.
 
111.6.4   Certificate of Occupancy required for new owner.
It shall be unlawful for any person who acquires legal or equitable title to a
premises (after the date this Property Maintenance Code is adopted) to occupy
or to use it without having obtained from the code official or the previous
owner a valid certificate of occupancy (absolute or conditional) for that
premises. A certificate of occupancy is valid for only one year after its date
or until 60 days after title to the premises is transferred to a new owner,
whichever occurs sooner. No new occupancy certificate shall be issued for the
premises without a new inspection (which may or may not reveal and require
correction of additional unsafe or unlawful matters).
 
111.6.5   Disclosure of violations to new owner.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any property upon whom a notice of
violation has been served (in the form of a list of defects or violations
attached to a conditional certificate of occupancy or as a result of violations
otherwise noted by the code official) to transfer legal or equitable ownership
of the property to another until the defects and violations listed in that
notice have been corrected, or until the owner or a lienholder has entered into
a satisfactory written contract to make the corrections, or until such owner
furnishes the proposed new owner a true copy of that notice and obtains a
signed receipt that he has done so and that the proposed new owner is aware of
the pending notice and its requirement of corrective work.
 
111.6.6   Business inspections.
 
Pre-sale and rental inspections are applicable to business uses and shall be
conducted upon a change of tenant or ownership.
 
All inspections must be conducted as soon as reasonably practical after being
vacated by tenants or in contemplation of a change in ownership as required by
this Code. Such commercial rental units must be brought into compliance with
requirements of this Property Maintenance Code in connection with each change
of occupancy by new tenants.
 
111.6.7   Inspection fees.
Fees to be charged for pre-sale inspections (and similar inspections made of
rental units after tenants vacate those units), shall be as set by the City
Manager in the fee schedule issued under Chapter
153 of the Administrative Code. Said fees shall be paid at the time an
individual requests a pre-sale inspection and no pre-sale inspection shall be
conducted until such time as the appropriate fee is received by the city.
 
111.7   Placarding.
Upon failure of the owner, owner's authorized agent or person responsible to
comply with the notice provisions within the time given, the code official
shall post on the premises or on defective equipment a placard bearing the word
"Condemned" and a statement of the penalties provided for occupying the
premises, operating the equipment or removing the placard. Such notice shall be
posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such
notice. If the notice pertains to equipment, it shall be placed on the
condemned equipment.
 
111.7.1   Placard removal.
The code official shall remove the condemnation placard whenever the defect or
defects upon which the condemnation and placarding action were based have been
eliminated. Any person who defaces or removes a condemnation placard without
the approval of the code official shall be subject to the penalties provided by
this code.
 
111.8   Prohibited occupancy.
Any occupied structure condemned and placarded by the code official shall be
vacated as ordered by the code official. Any person who shall occupy a
placarded premises or shall operate placarded equipment, and any owner or
owner's authorized agent who shall let anyone occupy a placarded premises or
operate placarded equipment shall be liable for the penalties provided by this
code.
 
111.9   Restoration or abatement.
The structure or equipment determined to be unsafe by the code official is
permitted to be restored to a safe condition. The owner, owner's authorized
agent, operator or occupant of a structure, premises or equipment deemed unsafe
by the code official shall abate or cause to be abated or corrected such unsafe
conditions either by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or other approved
corrective action. To the extent that repairs, alterations, or additions are
made or a change of occupancy occurs during the restoration of the structure,
such repairs, alterations, additions, or change of occupancy shall comply with
the requirements of the International Existing Building Code.
 
**** SECTION 112
EMERGENCY MEASURES ****
 
112.1   Imminent danger.
When, in the opinion of the code official, there is imminent danger of failure
or collapse of a building or structure that endangers life, or when any
structure or part of a structure has fallen and life is endangered by the
occupation of the structure, or when there is actual or potential danger to the
building occupants or those in the proximity of any structure because of
explosives, explosive fumes or vapors or the presence of toxic fumes, gases or
materials, or operation of defective or dangerous equipment, the code official
is hereby authorized and empowered to order and require the occupants to vacate
the premises forthwith. The code official shall cause to be posted at each
entrance to such structure a notice reading as follows: "This Structure Is
Unsafe and Its Occupancy Has Been Prohibited by the Code Official." It shall be
unlawful for any person to enter such structure except for the purpose of
securing the structure, making the required repairs, removing the hazardous
condition or of demolishing the same.
 
112.2   Temporary safeguards.
Notwithstanding other provisions of this code, whenever, in the opinion of the
code official, there is imminent danger due to an unsafe condition, the code
official shall order the necessary work to be done, including the boarding up
of openings, to render such structure temporarily safe whether or not the legal
procedure herein described has been instituted; and shall cause such other
action to be taken as the code official deems necessary to meet such emergency.
 
112.3   Closing streets.
When necessary for public safety, the code official shall temporarily close
structures and close, or order the authority having jurisdiction to close,
sidewalks, streets, public ways and places adjacent to unsafe structures, and
prohibit the same from being utilized.
 
112.4   Emergency repairs.
For the purposes of this section, the code official shall employ the necessary
labor and materials to perform the required work as expeditiously as possible.
 
112.5   Costs of emergency repairs.
Costs incurred in the performance of emergency work shall be paid by the
jurisdiction, subject to compliance with city charter and ordinance
requirements as to making contracts or financial commitments on behalf of the
city. The legal counsel of the jurisdiction may institute appropriate action
against the owner of the premises or owner's authorized agent where the unsafe
structure is or was located for the recovery of such costs. The costs of such
emergency repairs to correct hazardous conditions shall be certified by the
clerk of the city council to the county auditor as a tax lien upon the premises
in the manner provided in Ohio Revised Code 715.261. Based on the emergency
nature of such costs, notice to owners and lienholders of the emergency work
may be given by other than certified mail, may be given with less than the
advance otherwise required, or may be dispensed with entirely. If no advance
notice at all is given, however, the lien authorized by R.C. 715.261 for such
costs shall be subordinate to any liens of prior record.
 
112.6   Hearing.
Any person ordered to take emergency measures shall comply with such order
forthwith. Any affected person shall thereafter, upon petition directed to the
appeals board, be afforded a hearing as described in this code.
 
**** SECTION 113
DEMOLITION ****
 
113.1   General.
The code official shall order the owner or owner's authorized agent of any
premises upon which is located any structure, which in the code official's or
owner's authorized agent judgment after review is so deteriorated or
dilapidated or has become so out of repair as to be dangerous, unsafe,
insanitary or otherwise unfit for human habitation or occupancy, and such that
it is unreasonable to repair the structure, to demolish and remove such
structure; or if such structure is capable of being made safe by repairs, to
repair and make safe and sanitary, or to board up and hold for future repair or
to demolish and remove at the owner's option; or where there has been a
cessation of normal construction of any structure for a period of more than two
years, the code official shall order the owner or owner's authorized agent to
demolish and remove such structure, or board up until future repair. Boarding
the building up for future repair shall not extend beyond thirty days, unless
approved by the building official. Demolition shall require all permits
required under Chapter
1303 of the Building Code.
 
113.2   Notices and orders.
Notices and orders shall comply with Section 111.4.
 
113.3   Failure to comply.
If the owner of a premises or owner's authorized agent fails to comply with a
demolition order within the time prescribed, the code official shall cause the
structure to be demolished and removed, either through an available public
agency or by contract or arrangement with private persons, and the cost of such
demolition and removal shall be charged against the real estate upon which the
structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
 
113.4   Salvage materials.
Where any structure has been ordered demolished and removed, the governing body
or other designated officer under said contract or arrangement aforesaid shall
have the right to sell the salvage and valuable materials. The net proceeds of
such sale, after deducting the expenses of such demolition and removal, shall
be promptly remitted with a report of such sale or transaction, including the
items of expense and the amounts deducted, for the person who is entitled
thereto, subject to any order of a court. If such a surplus does not remain to
be turned over, the report shall so state.
 
**** SECTION 114
FIRE INSURANCE TRUST ****
 
114.1   General.
Ohio statutes require the creation of a Fire Insurance Trust Fund. The language
explaining the requirements of the fund shall read as follows:
   
   A.   A fire insurance trust fund is to be created in the accounting records
of the city. It is to be maintained from all other funds of city money, and is
to be administered as a trust fund for the purposes described in the remainder
of this section. The Director of Finance shall administer this trust fund for
the purposes specified in Revised Code 3929.86.
   
   B.   In the event of any loss by fire within the City of Oakwood when the
amount of said loss agreed to between the named insured or insureds and the
company or companies insuring said loss equals or exceeds 60% of the aggregate
limits of liability on all fire policies covering the building or structure
insured, the insurance company or companies shall transfer from the insurance
proceeds to the Director of Finance of the city in the aggregate $2,000.00 for
each $15,000.00, and each fraction of that amount, of a claim, or such higher
amount as may be required under Revised Code 3929.86(C) or other applicable
state law. In the alternative, if at the time of a proof of loss agreed to
between the named insured or insureds and the insurance company or companies
the named insured or insureds have submitted a contractor's signed estimate of
the costs of removing, repairing, or securing the building or other structure,
the Director of Finance shall transfer from the insurance proceeds the amount
specified in the estimate. This shall be done in accordance with Revised Code
715.26(F).
 
   C.   Such transfer of proceeds shall be on a pro rata basis by all companies
insuring the building or other structure. The named insured or insureds may
submit a contractor's signed estimate of the costs of removing, repairing or
securing the building or other structure after the transfer, and the director
of finance shall return the amount of the fund in excess of the estimate to the
named insured or insureds, provided that the city has not commenced to remove,
repair, or secure the building or other structure.
 
   D.   Upon receipt of proceeds by the city as authorized by this section and
by Revised Code 3929.86, the Director of Finance shall place the proceeds in
the fire insurance trust fund to be used solely as security against the total
cost of removing, repairing, or securing incurred by the city pursuant to R.C.
715.261 or Section 109 dealing with emergency measures of this code. When
transferring the funds as required by this section, an insurance company shall
provide the Director of Finance with the name and address of the named insured
or insureds; and that Director shall contact the named insured or insureds,
certify that the proceeds have been received by the City of Oakwood and notify
them that the following procedures will be followed:
      1.   The fund shall be returned to the named insured or insureds when the
repairs or removal, or securing of the building or other structure have been
completed and the required proof received by the Director of Finance, if the
City of Oakwood has incurred any costs for repairs, removal or securing of the
building or other structure, such costs shall be paid from the fund and if
excess funds remain, the City of Oakwood shall transfer the remaining funds to
the named insured or insureds. Nothing in this code shall be construed to limit
the ability of the City of Oakwood to recover any deficiency under Section
715.261 of the Ohio Revised Code.
      2.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the City of
Oakwood and the named insured or insureds from entering into an agreement that
permits the transfer of funds to the named insured or insureds if some other
reasonable disposition of the damaged property has been negotiated.
 
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
User note:
About this chapter: Codes, by their very nature, are technical documents. Every
word, term and punctuation mark can add to or change the meaning of a technical
requirement. It is necessary to maintain a consensus on the specific meaning of
each term contained in the code. Chapter 2 performs this function by stating
clearly what specific terms mean for the purpose of the code.
**** SECTION 201
GENERAL ****
201.1   Scope.
Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall, for the purposes
of this code, have the meanings shown in this chapter.
201.2   Interchangeability.
Words stated in the present tense include the future; words stated in the
masculine gender include the feminine and neuter; the singular number includes
the plural and the plural, the singular.
201.3   Terms defined in other codes.
Where terms are not defined in this code and are defined in the International
Building Code, International Existing Building Code, International Fire Code,
International Fuel Gas Code, International Mechanical Code, International
Plumbing Code, International Residential Code, International Zoning Code or
NFPA 70, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as stated in those
codes.
Exception: When used within this code, the terms unsafe and dangerous shall
have only the meanings ascribed to them in this code and shall not have the
meanings ascribed to them by the International Existing Building Code.
201.4   Terms not defined.
Where terms are not defined through the methods authorized by this section,
such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings such as the context implies.
201.5   Parts.
Whenever the words "dwelling unit," "dwelling," "premises," "building,"
"rooming house," "rooming unit," "housekeeping unit" or "story" are stated in
this code, they shall be construed as though they were followed by the words
"or any part thereof."
 
**** SECTION 202
GENERAL DEFINITIONS ****
ANCHORED. Secured in a manner that provides positive connection.
APPROVED. Acceptable to the code official.
BASEMENT. That portion of a building that is partly or completely below grade.
BATHROOM. A room containing plumbing fixtures including a bathtub or shower.
BEDROOM. Any room or space used or intended to be used for sleeping purposes in
either a dwelling or sleeping unit.
CODE OFFICIAL. The city manager and also any person(s) to whom the city manager
may have delegated the responsibility of administering or enforcing all or any
portion of this code.
CONDEMN. Condemn means to order to be vacated. Similarly, condemned shall mean
ordered to be vacated, and condemnation shall mean vacation.
COST OF SUCH DEMOLITION OR EMERGENCY REPAIRS. The costs shall include the
actual costs of the demolition or repair of the structure less revenues
obtained if salvage was conducted prior to demolition or repair. Costs shall
include, but not be limited to, expenses incurred or necessitated related to
demolition or emergency repairs, such as asbestos survey and abatement if
necessary; costs of inspectors, testing agencies or experts retained relative
to the demolition or emergency repairs; costs of testing; surveys for other
materials that are controlled or regulated from being dumped in a landfill;
title searches; mailing(s); postings; recording; and attorney fees expended for
recovering of the cost of emergency repairs or to obtain or enforce an order of
demolition made by a code official, the governing body or board of appeals.
DETACHED. When a structural element is physically disconnected from another and
that connection is necessary to provide a positive connection.
DETERIORATION. To weaken, disintegrate, corrode, rust or decay and lose
effectiveness.
DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living facilities
for a single family, as defined by the Oakwood Zoning Code, including permanent
provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
[Z] EASEMENT. That portion of land or property reserved for present or future
use by a person or agency other than the legal fee owner(s) of the property.
The easement shall be permitted to be for use under, on or above said lot or
lots.
EMERGENCY ESCAPE AND RESCUE OPENING. An operable exterior window, door or other
similar device that provides for a means of escape and access for rescue in the
event of an emergency.
EQUIPMENT SUPPORT. Those structural members or assemblies of members or
manufactured elements, including braces, frames, lugs, snuggers, hangers or
saddles, that transmit gravity load, lateral load and operating load between
the equipment and the structure.
 
EXTERIOR PROPERTY. The open space on the premises and on adjoining property
under the control of owners or operators of such premises.
FAMILY. As used in this Property Maintenance Code, family shall have the same
meaning as is set forth in the Oakwood Zoning Code.
GARBAGE. The animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
[BE] GUARD. A building component or a system of building components located at
or near the open sides of elevated walking surfaces that minimizes the
possibility of a fall from the walking surface to a lower level.
[BG] HABITABLE SPACE. Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, storage or utility spaces,
and similar areas are not considered habitable spaces.
[A]   HISTORIC BUILDING. Any building or structure that is one or more of the
following:
   1.   Listed or certified as eligible for listing, by the State Historic
Preservation Officer or the Keeper of the National Register of Historic Places,
in the National Register of Historic Places.
   2.   Designated as historic under an applicable state or local law.
   3.   Certified as a contributing resource within a National Register or
state or locally designated historic district.
 
HOUSEKEEPING UNIT. A room or group of rooms forming a single habitable space
equipped and intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating that
does not contain, within such a unit, a toilet, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
 
IMMINENT DANGER. A condition that could cause serious or life-threatening
injury or death at any time.
 
INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or premises of
insects, rodents, vermin or other pests.
 
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that cannot be driven upon the public
streets for reason including but not limited to being unlicensed, wrecked,
abandoned, in a state of disrepair, or incapable of being moved under its own
power; also includes "Junk Vehicle" as defined in Section
523.01 of the General Offenses Code.
 
[A] LABELED. Equipment, materials or products to which have been affixed a
label, seal, symbol or other identifying mark of a nationally recognized
testing laboratory, approved agency or other organization concerned with
product evaluation that maintains periodic inspection of the production of the
above-labeled items and whose labeling indicates either that the equipment,
material or product meets identified standards or has been tested and found
suitable for a specified purpose.
 
LET FOR OCCUPANCY or LET. To permit, provide or offer possession or occupancy
of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, premise or structure by a
person who is or is not the legal owner of record thereof, pursuant to a
written or unwritten lease, agreement or license, or pursuant to a recorded or
unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of land.
 
NEGLECT. The lack of proper maintenance for a building or structure.
 
[A] OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building or portion thereof is utilized
or occupied.
 
OCCUPANT. Any individual living or sleeping in a building, or having possession
of a space within a building.
 
ONE-FAMILY DWELLING. A building containing one dwelling unit, to be occupied by
only one family with no more lodgers or boarders than permitted under the
Zoning Code of this city.
 
OPENABLE AREA. That part of a window, skylight or door which is available for
unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
 
OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a structure or premises
that is let or offered for occupancy.
 
[A] OWNER. Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
state, county or municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise
having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any
such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of such person if
ordered to take possession of real property by a court.
 
[A] PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership or any other group acting
as a unit.
 
PEST ELIMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that serve as their food or water; by other approved pest elimination
methods.
 
[A] PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, easement or public way, including
any structures thereon.
 
[A] PUBLIC WAY. Any street, alley or other parcel of land that: is open to the
outside air; leads to a street; has been deeded, dedicated or otherwise
permanently appropriated to the public for public use; and has a clear width
and height of not less than 10 feet (3048 mm).
 
ROOMING HOUSE. A building arranged or occupied for lodging, with or without
meals, for compensation and not occupied as a one- or two-family dwelling.
 
ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
occupied or intended to be occupied for sleeping or living, but not for cooking
purposes.
 
RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage; the
term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other
combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber,
leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter,
glass, crockery and dust and other similar materials.
 
[A] SLEEPING UNIT. A room or space in which people sleep, which can also
include permanent provisions for living, eating and either sanitation or
kitchen facilities, but not both. Such rooms and spaces that are also part of a
dwelling unit are not sleeping units.
 
STRICT LIABILITY OFFENSE. An offense in which the prosecution in a legal
proceeding is not required to prove criminal intent as a part of its case. It
is enough to prove that the defendant either did an act which was prohibited,
or failed to do an act which the defendant was legally required to do.
 
[A] STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed.
 
TENANT. A person, corporation, partnership or group, whether or not the legal
owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a unit.
 
TOILET ROOM. A room containing a water closet or urinal but not a bathtub or
shower.
 
TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. A building containing two dwelling units, each to be
occupied by only one family with no more lodgers or boarders than permitted
under the Zoning Code of this city.
 
ULTIMATE DEFORMATION. The deformation at which failure occurs and that shall be
deemed to occur if the sustainable load reduces to 80 percent or less of the
maximum strength.
 
[M] VENTILATION. The natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned or
unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any space.
 
WORKMANLIKE. Executed in a skilled manner; e.g., generally plumb, level,
square, in line, undamaged and without marring adjacent work.
 
[Z] YARD. An open space on the same lot with a structure.
 
 
Unsafe premises is defined in Sec. 111.
 
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
User note:
About this chapter: Chapter 3 is broad in scope and includes a variety of
requirements for the maintenance of exterior property areas, as well as the
interior and exterior elements of the structure, that are intended to maintain
a minimum level of safety and sanitation for both the general public and the
occupants of a structure, and to maintain a building's structural and weather-
resistance performance. Specifically, Chapter 3 contains criteria for the
maintenance of building components; vacant structures and land; the safety,
sanitation and appearance of the interior and exterior of structures and all
exterior property areas; accessory structures; extermination of insects and
rodents; access barriers to swimming pools, spas and hot tubs; vehicle storage
and owner/occupant responsibilities.
**** SECTION 301
GENERAL ****
301.1   Scope.
The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum conditions and the
responsibilities of persons for maintenance of structures, equipment and
exterior property.
301.2   Responsibility.
The owner of the premises shall maintain the structures and exterior property
in compliance with these requirements, except as otherwise provided for in this
code. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another person to
occupy premises that are not in a sanitary and safe condition and that do not
comply with the requirements of this chapter. Occupants of a dwelling unit,
rooming unit or housekeeping unit are responsible for keeping in a clean,
sanitary and safe condition that part of the dwelling unit, rooming unit,
housekeeping unit or premises they occupy and control.
301.3   Vacant structures and land.
Vacant structures and premises thereof or vacant land shall be maintained in a
clean, safe, secure and sanitary condition as provided herein so as not to
cause a blighting problem or adversely affect the public health or safety. The
level at which they are maintained shall not be lower than the average
standards of maintenance generally used by owners of occupied structures and
land throughout this city.
**** SECTION 302
EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS ****
302.1   Sanitation.
Exterior property and premises shall be maintained in a clean, safe and
sanitary condition. The occupant shall keep that part of the exterior property
that such occupant occupies or controls in a clean and sanitary condition.
302.2   Grading and drainage.
Premises shall be graded and maintained to prevent the erosion of soil and to
prevent the accumulation of stagnant water thereon, or within any structure
located thereon.
 
   Exception: Approved retention areas and reservoirs.
302.3   Sidewalks and driveways.
Sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways, parking spaces and similar areas shall
be kept in a proper state of repair, and maintained free from hazardous
conditions.
302.4   Weeds.
Premises and exterior property shall be maintained free from weeds or plant
growth in excess of eight inches. Noxious weeds shall be prohibited. Weeds
shall be defined as all grasses, annual plants and vegetation, other than trees
or shrubs provided; however, this term shall not include cultivated flowers and
gardens, nor shall it include natural areas designated as such under Section
551.02 , General Offenses Code.
Upon failure of the owner or agent having charge of a property to cut and
destroy weeds after service of a notice of violation, they shall be subject to
prosecution in accordance with Section 109.3 and as prescribed by the authority
having jurisdiction. Upon failure to comply with the notice of violation, any
duly authorized employee of the jurisdiction or contractor hired by the
jurisdiction shall be authorized to enter upon the property in violation and
cut and destroy the weeds growing thereon, and the costs of such removal shall
be paid by the owner or agent responsible for the property.
302.5   Rodent harborage.
Structures and exterior property shall be kept free from rodent harborage and
infestation. Where rodents are found, they shall be promptly exterminated by
approved processes that will not be injurious to human health. After pest
elimination, proper precautions shall be taken to eliminate rodent harborage
and prevent reinfestation.
302.6   Exhaust vents.
Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans or blowers shall not discharge gases, steam,
vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors or other gaseous or particulate wastes
directly on abutting or adjacent public or private property or that of another
tenant.
302.7   Accessory structures.
Accessory structures, including detached garages, fences and walls, shall be
maintained structurally sound and in good repair. All garages, including those
attached to the principal structure, shall have operating overhead or
horizontal doors to provide security for the property within and in the case of
attached garages, for the occupants of the principal structure. (Ord. 4594,
passed 10/10/05, effective 11/10/05).
302.8   Motor vehicles.
No motor vehicle shall be stored, kept or parked outside on any property unless
there is displayed or mounted upon it whatever license or registration tag is
required by Ohio law to permit that vehicle to be lawfully operated on public
streets. For the purpose of this section, the words "motor vehicle" shall have
the same meaning as in the Uniform Traffic Laws of the State of Ohio. Except as
provided for in other regulations, inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicles
shall not be parked, kept or stored on any premises, and vehicles shall not at
any time be in a state of major disassembly, disrepair, or in the process of
being stripped or dismantled. Painting of vehicles is prohibited unless
conducted inside an approved spray booth.
Exception: A vehicle of any type is permitted to undergo major overhaul,
including body work, provided that such work is performed inside a structure or
similarly enclosed area designed and approved for such purposes.
 
302.9   Defacement of property.
A person shall not willfully or wantonly damage, mutilate or deface any
exterior surface of any structure or building on any private or public property
by placing thereon any marking, carving or graffiti.
It shall be the responsibility of the owner to restore said surface to an
approved state of maintenance and repair.
302.10   General maintenance standards for exterior property areas.
All exterior property and premises shall be maintained so as not to cause a
blighting problem, not to adversely affect the public health or safety, not to
adversely affect premises because that decreases property values and in turn
lowers the quality of life in this city, but instead shall be maintained so as
to have a positive impact on the premises. Further, such work shall be
performed in a manner which is in keeping with the standards of maintenance
generally used by owners and occupants throughout this city. Leaves must be
raked and disposed of so as to avoid unreasonable accumulations. All poisonous
weeds or plants shall be destroyed and removed. All land or dirt shall be
maintained so as to be covered with vegetation ground cover, except areas
covered by or used for:
   A.   buildings or structures;
   B.   other substances allowed under the Zoning Code;
   C.   gardens or flowerbeds;
   D.   construction of improvements;
   E.   recreation or outdoor storage uses; or
   F.   public area nature parks or private lot nature areas designated by the
city under Section
551.02  of the General Offenses Code.
302.11   Obsolete signs.
(DELETED - Regulated under Oakwood Zoning Code)
302.12   Owner responsible for unpaved right-of-way.
For the purposes of this Code, the words "exterior property" and "premises"
shall include the strip of land sometimes referred to as the tree lawn (i.e.
the portion of right-of-way between the curb, or the paved street if there is
no curb, and the sidewalk) and any other unpaved portion of right-of-way which
abuts property of an owner. Accordingly, the owner shall be responsible for
causing such unpaved right-of-way to comply with the maintenance requirements
of this Code.
302.13   Screening or removal of outdoor storage.
In the Neighborhood and Community business zoning districts, all storage of
materials, goods or products shall be within enclosed buildings or shall be
effectively screened from view in a manner subject to the approval of the
Planning Commission of this city. Off-street parking of operative vehicles
shall be an exception to this requirement.
In residential zoning districts, all outdoor storage for a period exceeding 15
continuous days (with any part of such a day being counted as an entire day)
shall be enclosed or effectively screened from view in a manner subject to the
approval of the Planning Commission. The storage of such functional items as
children's play structures, firewood and operable automobiles and vehicles
shall be exempt from this requirement.
If the principal building on any premises has become vacant, portable objects
shall not be stored outside on that lot but instead shall be placed within an
enclosed structure.
 
302.14   Diseased and dead trees.
Diseased trees are those with any form of decay or vegetation sickness that can
be transmitted to other trees, plus those infected with insects to such an
extent as to create a nuisance adversely affecting nearby persons or property.
Such trees shall be removed immediately or shall be treated or sprayed to
eliminate at once the risk of the decay or vegetation sickness being
transmitted to other trees and to remove the insect nuisance situation.
The code official shall determine if a dead tree constitutes a safety hazard
because of its proximity to the right-of-way, any building or structure, or to
persons who use nearby premises. If the code official decides that a tree
constitutes such a safety hazard, it shall be removed at the expense of the
owner or operator responsible for maintenance of the premises on which it is
located.
302.15   Casualty damage repair.
Within 30 days after casualty damage to any structure or exterior premises, the
owner shall have taken the following steps:
   A.   contracted for repair and restoration of damaged areas and removal of
debris; and/or
   B.   contracted for the demolition (as regulated by the Building Code of
this city) and removal of any portions of the premises not to be repaired and
restored, and also for removal of debris in connection therewith; and
   C.   arranged for the contract work to be completed within 60 days from the
contract date, except to the extent a delay is caused by weather, strikes, acts
of God or other matters beyond the reasonable control of the owner and
contractor.
The code official may extend these time periods to the extent he or she deems
appropriate, but shall not be required to do so. Time is of the essence in
repairing damage quickly so as to avoid detrimental impact upon persons and
property.
**** SECTION 303
SWIMMING POOLS, SPAS AND HOT TUBS ****
303.1   Swimming pools.
Swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition, and in
good repair.
303.2   Enclosures.
Private swimming pools, hot tubs and spas, containing water more than 24 inches
(610 mm) in depth shall be completely surrounded by a fence or barrier not less
than 48 inches (1219 mm) in height above the finished ground level measured on
the side of the barrier away from the pool. Gates and doors in such barriers
shall be self-closing and self-latching. Where the self-latching device is less
than 54 inches (1372 mm) above the bottom of the gate, the release mechanism
shall be located on the pool side of the gate. Self-closing and self-latching
gates shall be maintained such that the gate will positively close and latch
when released from an open position of 6 inches (152 mm) from the gatepost. An
existing pool enclosure shall not be removed, replaced or changed in a manner
that reduces its effectiveness as a safety barrier.
Exception: Spas or hot tubs with a safety cover that complies with ASTM F1346
shall be exempt from the provisions of this section.
 
**** SECTION 304
EXTERIOR STRUCTURE ****
304.1   General.
The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in good repair, structurally
sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the public health, safety or
welfare. As additional standards of maintenance, the exterior of every
structure shall be maintained in high quality, first-class condition so as not
to have a negative effect upon the value of the subject property, or upon the
value of other property in the neighborhood or the city, not to cause a
blighting problem or adversely affect the public health or safety, and in
accordance with the standards of maintenance generally used by owners and
occupants throughout this city.
304.1.1   Unsafe conditions.
The following conditions shall be determined as unsafe and shall be repaired or
replaced to comply with the International Building Code or the International
Existing Building Code as required for existing buildings:
   1.   The nominal strength of any structural member is exceeded by nominal
loads, the load effects or the required strength.
   2.   The anchorage of the floor or roof to walls or columns, and of walls
and columns to foundations is not capable of resisting all nominal loads or
load effects.
   3.   Structures or components thereof that have reached their limit state.
 
   4.   Siding and masonry joints including joints between the building
envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors and skylights are not maintained,
weather resistant or water tight.
 
   5.   Structural members that have evidence of deterioration or that are not
capable of safely supporting all nominal loads and load effects.
 
   6.   Foundation systems that are not firmly supported by footings, are not
plumb and free from open cracks and breaks, are not properly anchored or are
not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects.
 
   7.   Exterior walls that are not anchored to supporting and supported
elements or are not plumb and free of holes, cracks or breaks and loose or
rotting materials, are not properly anchored or are not capable of supporting
all nominal loads and resisting all load effects.
 
   8.   Roofing or roofing components that have defects that admit rain, roof
surfaces with inadequate drainage, or any portion of the roof framing that is
not in good repair with signs of deterioration, fatigue or without proper
anchorage and incapable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load
effects.
 
   9.   Flooring and flooring components with defects that affect
serviceability or flooring components that show signs of deterioration or
fatigue, are not properly anchored or are incapable of supporting all nominal
loads and resisting all load effects.
 
   10.   Veneer, cornices, belt courses, corbels, trim, wall facings and
similar decorative features not properly anchored or that are anchored with
connections not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load
effects.
 
   11.   Overhang extensions or projections including, but not limited to,
trash chutes, canopies, marquees, signs, awnings, fire escapes, standpipes and
exhaust ducts not properly anchored or that are anchored with connections not
capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects.
 
   12.   Exterior stairs, decks, porches, balconies and all similar
appurtenances attached thereto, including guards and handrails, are not
structurally sound, not properly anchored or that are anchored with connections
not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects.
 
   13.   Chimneys, cooling towers, smokestacks and similar appurtenances not
structurally sound or not properly anchored, or that are anchored with
connections not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load
effects.
 
   Exceptions:
 
   1.   Where substantiated otherwise by an approved method.
 
   2.   Demolition of unsafe conditions shall be permitted where approved by
the code official.
 
304.2   Protective treatment.
Exterior surfaces, including but not limited to, doors, door and window frames,
cornices, porches, trim, balconies, decks and fences, shall be maintained in
good condition. Exterior wood surfaces, other than decay-resistant woods, shall
be protected from the elements and decay by painting or other protective
covering or treatment. Peeling, flaking and chipped paint shall be eliminated
and surfaces repainted. Siding and masonry joints, as well as those between the
building envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors and skylights, shall be
maintained weather resistant and water tight. Metal surfaces subject to rust or
corrosion shall be coated to inhibit such rust and corrosion, and surfaces with
rust or corrosion shall be stabilized and coated to inhibit future rust and
corrosion. Oxidation stains shall be removed from exterior surfaces. Surfaces
designed for stabilization by oxidation are exempt from this requirement.
 
[F] 304.3 Premises identification.
Buildings shall have approved address numbers placed in a position to be
plainly legible and visible from the street or road fronting the property.
These numbers shall contrast with their background. Address numbers shall be
Arabic numerals or alphabet letters. Numbers shall be not less than 4 inches
(102 mm) in height with a minimum stroke width of 0.5 inch (12.7 mm).
 
304.4   Structural members.
Structural members shall be maintained free from deterioration, and shall be
capable of safely supporting the imposed dead and live loads.
 
304.5   Foundation walls.
Foundation walls shall be maintained plumb and free from open cracks and breaks
and shall be kept in such condition so as to prevent the entry of rodents and
other pests.
 
304.6   Exterior walls.
Exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks, and loose or rotting
materials; and maintained weatherproof and properly surface coated where
required to prevent deterioration.
 
304.7   Roofs and drainage.
The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and not have defects that admit
rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent dampness or deterioration in
the walls or interior portion of the structure. Roof drains, gutters and
downspouts shall be maintained in good repair and free from obstructions. Roof
water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a public nuisance.
 
304.8   Decorative features.
Cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra cotta trim, wall facings and similar
decorative features shall be maintained in good repair with proper anchorage
and in a safe condition.
 
304.9   Overhang extensions.
Overhang extensions including, but not limited to, canopies, marquees, signs,
metal awnings, fire escapes, standpipes and exhaust ducts shall be maintained
in good repair and be properly anchored so as to be kept in a sound condition.
Where required, all exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from
the elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather-
coating materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
 
304.10   Stairways, decks, porches and balconies.
Every exterior stairway, deck, porch and balcony, and all appurtenances
attached thereto, shall be maintained structurally sound, in good repair, with
proper anchorage and capable of supporting the imposed loads.
 
304.11   Chimneys and towers.
Chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks, and similar appurtenances shall be
maintained structurally safe and sound, and in good repair. Exposed surfaces of
metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust by
periodic application of weather-coating materials, such as paint or similar
surface treatment.
 
304.12   Handrails and guards.
Every handrail and guard shall be firmly fastened and capable of supporting
normally imposed loads and shall be maintained in good condition.
 
304.13   Window, skylight and door frames.
Every window, skylight, door and frame shall be kept in sound condition, good
repair and weather tight.
 
304.13.1   Glazing.
Glazing materials shall be maintained free from cracks and holes.
 
304.13.2   Openable windows.
Every window, other than a fixed window, shall be easily openable and capable
of being held in position by window hardware.
 
304.14   Insect screens.
During the period from May 1 to October 31 of each year, inclusive, every door,
window and other outside opening required for ventilation of habitable rooms,
food preparation areas, food service areas or any areas where products to be
included or utilized in food for human consumption are processed, manufactured,
packaged or stored shall be supplied with approved tightly fitting screens of
minimum 16 mesh per inch (16 mesh per 25 mm), and every screen door used for
insect control shall have a self-closing device in good working condition.
 
Exception: Screens shall not be required where other approved means, such as
air curtains or insect repellent fans, are employed.
 
304.15   Doors.
Exterior doors, door assemblies, operator systems if provided, and hardware
shall be maintained in good condition. Locks at all entrances to dwelling units
and sleeping units shall tightly secure the door. Locks on means of egress
doors shall be in accordance with Section 702.3.
 
304.16   Basement hatchways.
Every basement hatchway shall be maintained to prevent the entrance of rodents,
rain and surface drainage water.
 
304.17   Guards for basement windows.
Every basement window that is openable shall be supplied with rodent shields,
storm windows or other approved protection against the entry of rodents.
 
304.18   Building security.
Doors, windows or hatchways for dwelling units, room units or housekeeping
units shall be provided with devices designed to provide security for the
occupants and property within.
 
304.18.1   Doors.
Doors providing access to a dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit
that is rented, leased or let shall be equipped with a deadbolt lock designed
to be readily openable from the side from which egress is to be made without
the need for keys, special knowledge or effort and shall have a minimum lock
throw of 1 inch (25 mm). Such deadbolt locks shall be installed according to
the manufacturer's specifications and maintained in good working order. For the
purpose of this section, a sliding bolt shall not be considered an acceptable
deadbolt lock.
 
   304.18.2   Windows.
Operable windows located in whole or in part within 6 feet (1828 mm) above
ground level or a walking surface below that provide access to a dwelling unit,
rooming unit or housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let shall be
equipped with a window sash locking device.
   304.18.3   Basement hatchways.
Basement hatchways that provide access to a dwelling unit, rooming unit or
housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let shall be equipped with devices
that secure the units from unauthorized entry.
 
304.19   Gates.
Exterior gates, gate assemblies, operator systems if provided, and hardware
shall be maintained in good condition. Latches at all entrances shall tightly
secure the gates.
 
**** SECTION 305
INTERIOR STRUCTURE ****
 
305.1   General.
The interior of a structure and equipment therein shall be maintained in good
repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition. Occupants shall keep
that part of the structure that they occupy or control in a clean and sanitary
condition. Every owner of a structure containing a rooming house, housekeeping
units, a hotel, a dormitory, two or more dwelling units or two or more
nonresidential occupancies, shall maintain, in a clean and sanitary condition,
the shared or public areas of the structure and exterior property.
 
   305.1.1   Unsafe conditions.
The following conditions shall be determined as unsafe and shall be repaired or
replaced to comply with the International Building Code or the International
Existing Building Code as required for existing buildings:
      1.   The nominal strength of any structural member is exceeded by nominal
loads, the load effects or the required strength.
      2.   The anchorage of the floor or roof to walls or columns, and of walls
and columns to foundations is not capable of resisting all nominal loads or
load effects.
      3.   Structures or components thereof that have reached their limit
state.
      4.   Structural members are incapable of supporting nominal loads and
load effects.
      5.   Stairs, landings, balconies and all similar walking surfaces,
including guards and handrails, are not structurally sound, not properly
anchored or are anchored with connections not capable of supporting all nominal
loads and resisting all load effects.
      6.   Foundation systems that are not firmly supported by footings are not
plumb and free from open cracks and breaks, are not properly anchored or are
not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects.
 
      Exceptions:
      1.   Where substantiated otherwise by an approved method.
      
      2.   Demolition of unsafe conditions shall be permitted where approved by
the code official.
 
305.2   Structural members.
Structural members shall be maintained structurally sound, and be capable of
supporting the imposed loads.
 
305.3   Interior surfaces.
Interior surfaces, including windows and doors, shall be maintained in good,
clean and sanitary condition. Peeling, chipping, flaking or abraded paint shall
be repaired, removed or covered. Cracked or loose plaster, decayed wood and
other defective surface conditions shall be corrected.
 
305.4   Stairs and walking surfaces.
Every stair, ramp, landing, balcony, porch, deck or other walking surface shall
be maintained in sound condition and good repair.
 
305.5   Handrails and guards.
Every handrail and guard shall be firmly fastened and capable of supporting
normally imposed loads and shall be maintained in good condition.
 
305.6   Interior doors.
Every interior door shall fit reasonably well within its frame and shall be
capable of being opened and closed by being properly and securely attached to
jambs, headers or tracks as intended by the manufacturer of the attachment
hardware.
 
**** SECTION 306
COMPONENT SERVICEABILITY ****
 
306.1   General.
The components of a structure and equipment therein shall be maintained in good
repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition. These requirements
shall apply to interior but not to exterior stairways, landings and balconies
unless they are more than (ten feet) 10' higher than the grade below. The code
official may grant an administrative variance from this exterior requirement,
on his own motion or on request of the property owner, so as to increase the
ten feet (10') height by up to 20%, if the facts are such that the code
official makes the same written conclusions of fact that are required by
Section 107.2(D) for variances.
 
306.1.1   Unsafe conditions.
Where any of the following conditions cause the component or system to be
beyond its limit state, the component or system shall be determined as unsafe
and shall be repaired or replaced to comply with the International Building
Code or the International Existing Building Code as required for existing
buildings:
      1.   Soils that have been subjected to any of the following conditions:
 
         1.1.   Collapse of footing or foundation system.
 
         1.2.   Damage to footing, foundation, concrete or other structural
element due to soil expansion.
 
         1.3.   Adverse effects to the design strength of footing, foundation,
concrete or other structural element due to a chemical reaction from the soil.
 
         1.4.   Inadequate soil as determined by a geotechnical investigation.
 
         1.5.   Where the allowable bearing capacity of the soil is in doubt.
 
         1.6.   Adverse effects to the footing, foundation, concrete or other
structural element due to the ground water table.
 
      2.   Concrete that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:
 
         2.1.   Deterioration.
      
         2.2.   Ultimate deformation.
   
         2.3.   Fractures.
 
         2.4.   Fissures.
 
         2.5.   Spalling.
 
         2.6.   Exposed reinforcement.
 
         2.7.   Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
 
      3.   Aluminum that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:
 
         3.1.   Deterioration.
 
         3.2.   Corrosion.
 
         3.3.   Elastic deformation.
 
         3.4.   Ultimate deformation.
 
         3.5.   Stress or strain cracks.
   
         3.6.   Joint fatigue.
 
         3.7.   Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
 
      4.   Masonry that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:
 
         4.1.   Deterioration.
 
         4.2.   Ultimate deformation.
 
         4.3.   Fractures in masonry or mortar joints.
 
         4.4.   Fissures in masonry or mortar joints.
 
         4.5.   Spalling.
 
         4.6.   Exposed reinforcement.
 
         4.7.   Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
 
      5.   Steel that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:
 
         5.1.   Deterioration.
 
         5.2.   Elastic deformation.
 
         5.3.   Ultimate deformation.
 
         5.4.   Metal fatigue.
 
         5.5.   Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
 
      6.   Wood that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:
 
         6.1.   Ultimate deformation.
 
         6.2.   Deterioration.
 
         6.3.   Damage from insects, rodents and other vermin.
 
         6.4.   Fire damage beyond charring.
 
         6.5.   Significant splits and checks.
      
         6.6.   Horizontal shear cracks.
 
         6.7.   Vertical shear cracks.
 
         6.8.   Inadequate support.
 
         6.9.   Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
 
         6.10.   Excessive cutting and notching.
 
      Exceptions:
 
      1.   Where substantiated otherwise by an approved method.
 
      2.   Demolition of unsafe conditions shall be permitted where approved by
the code official.
 
**** SECTION 307
HANDRAILS AND GUARDRAILS ****
 
307.1   General.
Every exterior and interior flight of stairs having more than four risers shall
have a handrail on one side of the stair and every open portion of a stair,
landing, balcony, porch, deck, ramp or other walking surface that is more than
30 inches (762 mm) above the floor or grade below shall have guards. Handrails
shall be not less than 30 inches (762 mm) in height or more than 42 inches
(1067 mm) in height measured vertically above the nosing of the tread or above
the finished floor of the landing or walking surfaces. Guards shall be not less
than 30 inches (762 mm) in height above the floor of the landing, balcony,
porch, deck, or ramp or other walking surface.
 
Exception: Guards shall not be required where exempted by the adopted building
code.
 
**** SECTION 308
RUBBISH AND GARBAGE ****
 
308.1   Accumulation of rubbish or garbage.
Exterior property and premises, and the interior of every structure, shall be
free from any accumulation of rubbish or garbage. The interior of every
structure shall be free from any undue accumulation of rubbish or garbage so as
to avoid detrimental effects on physical or mental health of occupants or users
of the premises and to avoid significant adverse impact upon the value of the
property since that would, in turn, negatively impact on neighboring properties
and the quality of life throughout not only the neighborhood but the City of
Oakwood.
 
308.2   Disposal of rubbish.
Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of all rubbish in a clean and
sanitary manner by placing such rubbish in approved containers.
 
   308.2.1   Rubbish storage facilities.
The owner of every occupied premises shall supply approved covered containers
for rubbish, and the owner of the premises shall be responsible for the removal
of rubbish.
 
   308.2.2   Refrigerators.
Refrigerators and similar equipment not in operation shall not be discarded,
abandoned or stored on premises without first removing the doors.
 
308.3   Disposal of garbage.
Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of garbage in a clean and sanitary
manner by placing such garbage in an approved garbage disposal facility or
approved garbage containers.
 
   308.3.1   Garbage facilities.
The owner of every dwelling shall supply one of the following: an approved
mechanical food waste grinder in each dwelling unit; an approved incinerator
unit in the structure available to the occupants in each dwelling unit; or an
approved leakproof, covered, outside garbage container.
 
   308.3.2   Containers.
The operator of every establishment producing garbage shall provide, and at all
times cause to be utilized, approved leakproof containers provided with close-
fitting covers for the storage of such materials until removed from the
premises for disposal.
 
**** SECTION 309
PEST ELIMINATION ****
 
309.1   Infestation.
All structures shall be kept free from undue insect, rat and rodent
infestation, so as to avoid detrimental effects on physical or mental health of
occupants or users of the premises and to avoid significant adverse impact upon
the value of the property since that would, in turn, negatively impact on
neighboring properties and the quality of life throughout not only the
neighborhood but the City of Oakwood. All structures in which such
accumulations of insects, rats or rodents are found shall be promptly
exterminated by procedures accepted within the extermination industry and
customarily used in Montgomery County, Ohio, and not contrary to other
ordinances of the city or to rules, regulations or orders issued by or for the
Oakwood Health District. After pest elimination, proper precautions shall be
taken to prevent reinfestation.
 
309.2   Owner.
The owner of any structure shall be responsible for pest elimination within the
structure prior to renting or leasing the structure.
 
309.3   Single occupant.
The occupant of a one-family dwelling or of a single-tenant nonresidential
structure shall be responsible for pest elimination on the premises.
 
309.4   Multiple occupancy.
The owner of a structure containing two or more dwelling units, a multiple
occupancy, a rooming house or a nonresidential structure shall be responsible
for pest elimination in the public or shared areas of the structure and
exterior property. If infestation is caused by failure of an occupant to
prevent such infestation in the area occupied, the occupant and owner shall be
responsible for pest elimination.
 
309.5   Occupant.
The occupant of any structure shall be responsible for the continued rodent and
pest-free condition of the structure.
 
Exception: Where the infestations are caused by defects in the structure, the
owner shall be responsible for pest elimination.
 
CHAPTER 4
LIGHT, VENTILATION AND OCCUPANCY LIMITATIONS
User note:
About this chapter: Chapter 4 sets forth requirements to establish the minimum
environment for occupiable and habitable buildings by establishing the minimum
criteria for light and ventilation and identifying occupancy limitations
including minimum room width and area, minimum ceiling height and restrictions
to prevent overcrowding.
**** SECTION 401
GENERAL ****
401.1   Scope.
The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum conditions and
standards for light, ventilation and space for occupying a structure.
401.2   Responsibility.
The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain light, ventilation and
space conditions in compliance with these requirements. A person shall not
occupy as owner-occupant, or permit another person to occupy, any premises that
do not comply with the requirements of this chapter.
401.3   Alternative devices.
In lieu of the means for natural light and ventilation herein prescribed,
artificial light or mechanical ventilation complying with the applicable
building code shall be permitted.
**** SECTION 402
LIGHT ****
402.1   Habitable spaces.
Every habitable space shall have not less than one window of approved size
facing directly to the outdoors or to a court. The minimum total glazed area
for every habitable space shall be 8 percent of the floor area of such room.
Wherever walls or other portions of a structure face a window of any room and
such obstructions are located less than 3 feet (914 mm) from the window and
extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, such window shall not
be deemed to face directly to the outdoors nor to a court and shall not be
included as contributing to the required minimum total window area for the
room.
Exception: Where natural light for rooms or spaces without exterior glazing
areas is provided through an adjoining room, the unobstructed opening to the
adjoining room shall be not less than 8 percent of 2the floor area of the
interior room or space, or not less than 25 square feet (2.33 m , whichever is
greater. The exterior glazing area shall be based on the total floor area being
served.
402.2   Common halls and stairways.
Every common hall and stairway in residential occupancies, other than in one-
and two-family dwellings, shall be lighted at all times with not less than a
60-watt standard incandescent light bulb for each 200 square feet (19 m2) of
floor area or equivalent illumination, provided that the spacing between lights
shall not be greater than 30 feet (9144 mm). In other than residential
occupancies, interior and exterior means of egress, stairways shall be
illuminated at all times the building space served by the means of egress is
occupied with not less than 1 footcandle (11 lux) at floors, landings and
treads.
402.3   Other spaces.
Other spaces shall be provided with natural or artificial light sufficient to
permit the maintenance of sanitary conditions, and the safe occupancy of the
space and utilization of the appliances, equipment and fixtures.
**** SECTION 403
VENTILATION ****
403.1   Habitable spaces.
Every habitable space shall have not less than one openable window. The total
openable area of the window in every room shall be equal to not less than 45
percent of the minimum glazed area required in Section 402.1.
Exception: Where rooms and spaces without openings to the outdoors are
ventilated through an adjoining room, the unobstructed opening to the adjoining
room shall be not less than 8 percent of the 2floor area of the interior room
or space, but not less than 25 square feet (2.33 m ). The ventilation openings
to the outdoors shall be based on a total floor area being ventilated.
403.2   Bathrooms and toilet rooms.
Every bathroom and toilet room shall comply with the ventilation requirements
for habitable spaces as required by Section 403.1, except that a window shall
not be required in such spaces equipped with a mechanical ventilation system.
Air exhausted by a mechanical ventilation system from a bathroom or toilet room
shall discharge to the outdoors and shall not be recirculated.
403.3   Cooking facilities.
Unless approved through the certificate of occupancy, cooking shall not be
permitted in any rooming unit or dormitory unit, and a cooking facility or
appliance shall not be permitted to be present in the rooming unit or dormitory
unit.
   Exceptions:
   1.   Where specifically approved in writing by the code official.
   2.   Devices such as coffee pots and microwave ovens shall not be considered
cooking appliances.
403.4   Process ventilation.
Where injurious, toxic, irritating or noxious fumes, gases, dusts or mists are
generated, a local exhaust ventilation system shall be provided to remove the
contaminating agent at the source. Air shall be exhausted to the exterior and
not be recirculated to any space.
403.5   Clothes dryer exhaust.
Clothes dryer exhaust systems shall be independent of all other systems and
shall be exhausted outside the structure in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions.
   Exception: Listed and labeled condensing (ductless) clothes dryers.
 
**** SECTION 404
OCCUPANCY LIMITATIONS ****
404.1   Privacy.
Dwelling units, hotel units, housekeeping units, rooming units and dormitory
units shall be arranged to provide privacy and be separate from other adjoining
spaces.
404.2   Minimum room widths.
A habitable room, other than a kitchen, shall be not less than 7 feet (2134 mm)
in any plan dimension. Kitchens shall have a minimum clear passageway of 3 feet
(914 mm) between counterfronts and appliances or counterfronts and walls.
404.3   Minimum ceiling heights.
Habitable spaces, hallways, corridors, laundry areas, bathrooms, toilet rooms
and habitable basement areas shall have a minimum clear ceiling height of 7
feet (2134 mm).
   Exceptions:
   1.   In one- and two-family dwellings, beams or girders spaced not less than
4 feet (1219 mm) on center and projecting not greater than 6 inches (152 mm)
below the required ceiling height.
   2.   Basement rooms in one- and two-family dwellings occupied exclusively
for laundry, study or recreation purposes, having a minimum ceiling height of 6
feet 8 inches (2033 mm) with a minimum clear height of 6 feet 4 inches (1932
mm) under beams, girders, ducts and similar obstructions.
   3.   Rooms occupied exclusively for sleeping, study or similar purposes and
having a sloped ceiling over all or part of the room, with a minimum clear
ceiling height of 7 feet (2134 mm) over not less than one-third of the required
minimum floor area. In calculating the floor area of such rooms, only those
portions of the floor area with a minimum clear ceiling height of 5 feet (1524
mm) shall be included.
404.4   Bedroom and living room requirements.
Every bedroom and living room shall comply with the requirements of Sections
404.4.1 through 404.4.5.
   404.4.1   Room area.
Every living room shall contain not less than 120 square feet (11.2 m   and
every bedroom shall contain not less than 80 square feet (6.5   and every
bedroom occupied by more than one person shall contain not less than 60 square
feet (4.6 of floor area for each occupant thereof.
   404.4.2   Access from bedrooms.
Bedrooms shall not constitute the only means of access to other bedrooms or
habitable spaces and shall not serve as the only means of egress from other
habitable spaces.
   Exception: Units that contain fewer than two bedrooms.
   404.4.3   Water closet accessibility.
Every bedroom shall have access to not less than one water closet and one
lavatory without passing through another bedroom. Every bedroom in a dwelling
unit shall have access to not less than one water closet and lavatory located
in the same story as the bedroom or an adjacent story.
   404.4.4   Prohibited occupancy.
Kitchens and nonhabitable spaces shall not be used for sleeping purposes.
404.4.5   Other requirements.
Bedrooms shall comply with the applicable provisions of this code including,
but not limited to, the light, ventilation, room area, ceiling height and room
width requirements of this chapter; the plumbing facilities and water-heating
facilities requirements of Chapter 5; the heating facilities and electrical
receptacle requirements of Chapter 6; and the smoke detector and emergency
escape requirements of Chapter 7.
404.5   Overcrowding.
Dwelling units shall not be occupied by more occupants than permitted by the
minimum area requirements of Table 404.5. Further, every dwelling unit shall
contain at least 150 square feet of floor space for the first occupant, at
least 150 additional square feet of floor space for the second occupant, and at
least 100 additional square feet of floor space for each additional occupant.
TABLE 404.5
MINIMUM AREA REQUIREMENTS
 
SPACE           MINIMUM AREA IN SQUARE FEET
               1-2 occupants  3-5 occupants 6 or more occupants
Living room a,b 120            120           150
Dining room a,b No requirement 80            100
Bedrooms        Shall comply with Section 404.4.1
 
For SI: 1 square foot = 0.0929
   a.   See Section 404.5.2 for combined living room/dining room spaces.
   b.   See Section 404.5.1 for limitations on determining the minimum
occupancy area for sleeping purposes.
   404.5.1   Sleeping area.
The minimum occupancy area required by Table 404.5 shall not be included as a
sleeping area in determining the minimum occupancy area for sleeping purposes.
Sleeping areas shall comply with Section 404.4.
   404.5.2   Combined spaces.
Combined living room and dining room spaces shall comply with the requirements
of Table 404.5 if the total area is equal to that required for separate rooms
and if the space is located so as to function as a combination living room/
dining room.
404.6   Efficiency unit.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit an efficiency living unit from meeting
the following requirements:
 
   1.   A unit occupied by not more than one occupant shall have a minimum
clear floor area of 120 square feet (11.2 m ). A unit occupied by not more than
two occupants shall have a minimum clear floor area of 220 square feet (20.4 m
). A unit occupied by three occupants shall have a minimum clear floor area of
320 square feet (29.7 m ). These required areas shall be exclusive of The areas
required by Items 2 and 3.
   2.   The unit shall be provided with a kitchen sink, cooking appliance and
refrigeration facilities, each having a minimum clear working space of 30
inches (762 mm) in front. Light and ventilation conforming to this code shall
be provided.
   3.   The unit shall be provided with a separate bathroom containing a water
closet, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
   4.   The maximum number of occupants shall be three.
   
404.7   Food preparation.
Spaces to be occupied for food preparation purposes shall contain suitable
space and equipment to store, prepare and serve foods in a sanitary manner.
There shall be adequate facilities and services for the sanitary disposal of
food wastes and refuse, including facilities for temporary storage.
 
CHAPTER 5
PLUMBING FACILITIES AND FIXTURE REQUIREMENTS
User note:
About this chapter: Chapter 5 establishes minimum sanitary and clean conditions
in occupied buildings by containing requirements for the installation,
maintenance and location of plumbing systems and facilities, including the
water supply system, water heating appliances, sewage disposal systems and
related plumbing fixtures. Chapter 5 includes requirements for providing
potable water to a building and the basic fixtures to effectively utilize and
dispose of that water.
**** SECTION 501
GENERAL ****
501.1   Scope.
The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum plumbing systems,
facilities and plumbing fixtures to be provided.
501.2   Responsibility.
The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain such plumbing facilities
and plumbing fixtures in compliance with these requirements. A person shall not
occupy as owner-occupant or permit another person to occupy any structure or
premises that does not comply with the requirements of this chapter.
**** SECTION 502
REQUIRED FACILITIES ****
[P] 502.1 Dwelling units.
Every dwelling unit shall contain its own bathtub or shower, lavatory, water
closet and kitchen sink that shall be maintained in a sanitary, safe working
condition. The lavatory shall be placed in the same room as the water closet or
located in close proximity to the door leading directly into the room in which
such water closet is located. A kitchen sink shall not be used as a substitute
for the required lavatory.
[P] 502.2 Rooming houses.
Not less than one water closet, lavatory and bathtub or shower shall be
supplied for each four rooming units.
[P] 502.3 Hotels.
Where private water closets, lavatories and baths are not provided, one water
closet, one lavatory and one bathtub or shower having access from a public
hallway shall be provided for each 10 occupants.
[P] 502.4 Employees' facilities.
For fixed business locations, not less than one water closet, one lavatory and
one drinking facility shall be available to employees.
[P] 502.4.1 Drinking facilities.
Drinking facilities shall be a drinking fountain, water cooler, bottled water
cooler, or area for the storage and filling of employee water bottles or
disposable cups next to a sink or water dispenser. Drinking facilities shall
not be located in toilet rooms or bathrooms.
 
[P] 502.5 Public toilet facilities.
Public toilet facilities shall be maintained in a safe, sanitary and working
condition in accordance with the International Plumbing Code. Except for
periodic maintenance or cleaning, public access and use shall be provided to
the toilet facilities at all times during occupancy of the premises.
**** SECTION 503
TOILET ROOMS ****
[P] 503.1 Privacy.
Toilet rooms and bathrooms shall provide privacy and shall not constitute the
only passageway to a hall or other space, or to the exterior. A door and
interior locking device shall be provided for all common or shared bathrooms
and toilet rooms in a multiple dwelling.
[P] 503.2 Location.
Toilet rooms and bathrooms serving hotel units, rooming units or dormitory
units or housekeeping units, shall have access by traversing not more than one
flight of stairs and shall have access from a common hall or passageway.
[P] 503.3 Location of employee toilet facilities.
Toilet facilities shall have access from within the employees' working area.
The required toilet facilities shall be located not more than one story above
or below the employees' working area and the path of travel to such facilities
shall not exceed a distance of 500 feet (152 m). Employee facilities shall
either be separate facilities or combined employee and public facilities.
Exception: Facilities that are required for employees in storage structures or
kiosks, which are located in adjacent structures under the same ownership,
lease or control, shall not exceed a travel distance of 500 feet (152 m) from
the employees' regular working area to the facilities.
[P] 503.4 Floor surface.
In other than dwelling units, every toilet room floor shall be maintained to be
a smooth, hard, nonabsorbent surface to permit such floor to be easily kept in
a clean and sanitary condition.
**** SECTION 504
PLUMBING SYSTEMS AND FIXTURES ****
[P] 504.1 General.
Plumbing fixtures shall be properly installed and maintained in working order,
and shall be kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects and be capable of
performing the function for which such plumbing fixtures are designed. Plumbing
fixtures shall be maintained in a safe, sanitary and functional condition.
[P] 504.2 Fixture clearances.
Plumbing fixtures shall have adequate clearances for usage and cleaning.
[P] 504.3 Plumbing system hazards.
Where it is found that a plumbing system in a structure constitutes a hazard to
the occupants or the structure by reason of inadequate service, inadequate
venting, cross connection, backsiphonage, improper installation, deterioration
or damage or for similar reasons, the code official shall require the defects
to be corrected to eliminate the hazard.
 
**** SECTION 505
WATER SYSTEM ****
505.1 General.
Every sink, lavatory, bathtub or shower, drinking fountain, water closet or
other plumbing fixture shall be properly connected to either a public water
system or to an approved private water system. Kitchen sinks, lavatories,
laundry facilities, bathtubs and showers shall be supplied with hot or tempered
and cold running water in accordance with the International Plumbing Code.
[P] 505.2 Contamination.
The water supply shall be maintained free from contamination, and all water
inlets for plumbing fixtures shall be located above the flood-level rim of the
fixture. Shampoo basin faucets, janitor sink faucets and other hose bibs or
faucets to which hoses are attached and left in place, shall be protected by an
approved atmospheric-type vacuum breaker or an approved permanently attached
hose connection vacuum breaker.
[P] 505.3 Supply.
The water supply system shall be installed and maintained to provide a supply
of water to plumbing fixtures, devices and appurtenances in sufficient volume
and at pressures adequate to enable the fixtures to function properly, safely,
and free from defects and leaks.
[P] 505.4 Water heating facilities.
Water heating facilities shall be properly installed, maintained and capable of
providing an adequate amount of water to be drawn at every required sink,
lavatory, bathtub, shower and laundry facility at a temperature not less than
110°F (43°C). A gas-burning water heater shall not be located in any bathroom,
toilet room, bedroom or other occupied room normally kept closed, unless
adequate combustion air is provided. An approved combination temperature and
pressure-relief valve and relief valve discharge pipe shall be properly
installed and maintained on water heaters.
[P] 505.5 Nonpotable water reuse systems.
Nonpotable water reuse systems and rainwater collection and conveyance systems
shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary condition. Where such systems are
not properly maintained, the systems shall be repaired to provide for safe and
sanitary conditions, or the system shall be abandoned in accordance with
Section 505.5.1.
   [P] 505.5.1 Abandonment of systems.
Where a nonpotable water reuse system or a rainwater collection and
distribution system is not maintained or the owner ceases use of the system,
the system shall be abandoned in accordance with Section
1301.10  of the International Plumbing Code.
**** SECTION 506
SANITARY DRAINAGE SYSTEM ****
[P] 506.1 General.
Plumbing fixtures shall be properly connected to either a public sewer system
or to an approved private sewage disposal system.
[P] 506.2 Maintenance.
Every plumbing stack, vent, waste and sewer line shall function properly and be
kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects.
 
[P] 506.3 Grease interceptors.
Grease interceptors and automatic grease removal devices shall be maintained in
accordance with this code and the manufacturer's installation instructions.
Grease interceptors and automatic grease removal devices shall be regularly
serviced and cleaned to prevent the discharge of oil, grease, and other
substances harmful or hazardous to the building drainage system, the public
sewer, the private sewage disposal system or the sewage treatment plant or
processes. Records of maintenance, cleaning and repairs shall be available for
inspection by the code official.
**** SECTION 507
STORM DRAINAGE ****
[P] 507.1 General.
Drainage of roofs and paved areas, yards and courts, and other open areas on
the premises shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a public
nuisance.
**** SECTION 508
SWIMMING POOL DRAINAGE ****
508.1   Method of drainage.
All existing swimming pools that are not connected to a drainage facility
approved by the Oakwood Board of Health or to a drainage facility permissible
under the Building Code applicable in this city must be modified or operated so
as to dispose of water from those pools in the following manner:
   A.   Drainage water must be piped to the nearest available storm sewer; or
   B.   Drainage water must be disposed of on the zoning lot on which the pool
is situated and in such a manner that it does not drain onto public property or
upon private property owned by another person.
 
CHAPTER 6
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS
User note:
About this chapter: Chapter 6 establishes minimum performance requirements for
heating, electrical and mechanical facilities serving existing structures, such
as heating and air-conditioning equipment, appliances and their supporting
systems; water heating equipment, appliances and systems; cooking equipment and
appliances; ventilation and exhaust equipment; gas and liquid fuel distribution
piping and components; fireplaces and solid fuel-burning appliances; chimneys
and vents; electrical services; lighting fixtures; electrical receptacle
outlets; electrical distribution system equipment, devices and wiring; and
elevators, escalators and dumbwaiters.
**** SECTION 601
GENERAL ****
601.1   Scope.
The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum mechanical and
electrical facilities and equipment to be provided.
601.2   Responsibility.
The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain mechanical and electrical
facilities and equipment in compliance with these requirements. A person shall
not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another person to occupy any premises
that does not comply with the requirements of this chapter.
**** SECTION 602
HEATING FACILITIES ****
602.1   Facilities required.
Heating facilities shall be provided in structures as required by this section.
602.2   Residential occupancies.
Dwellings shall be provided with heating facilities capable of maintaining a
room temperature of 68°F (20°C) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet
rooms based on the winter outdoor design temperature for the locality indicated
in Appendix D of the International Plumbing Code. Cooking appliances shall not
be used, nor shall portable unvented fuel-burning space heaters be used, as a
means to provide required heating. The installation of one or more portable
space heaters shall not be used to achieve compliance with this section.
Exception: In areas where the average monthly temperature is above 30°F (-1°C),
a minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) shall be maintained.
602.3   Heat supply.
Every owner and operator of any building who rents, leases or lets one or more
dwelling units or sleeping units on terms, either expressed or implied, to
furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall supply heat during the period from
November 1 to March 31 to maintain a minimum temperature of 68°F (20°C) in all
habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms.
 
   Exceptions:
   1.   When the outdoor temperature is below the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality, maintenance of the minimum room temperature shall
not be required provided that the heating system is operating at its full
design capacity. The winter outdoor design temperature for the locality shall
be as indicated in Appendix D of the International Plumbing Code.
   2.   In areas where the average monthly temperature is above 30°F (-1°C), a
minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) shall be maintained.
602.4   Occupiable work spaces.
Indoor occupiable work spaces shall be supplied with heat during the period
from November 1 to April 30 to maintain a minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C)
during the period the spaces are occupied.
   Exceptions:
   1.   Processing, storage and operation areas that require cooling or special
temperature conditions.
   2.   Areas in which persons are primarily engaged in vigorous physical
activities.
602.5   Room temperature measurement.
The required room temperatures shall be measured 3 feet (914 mm) above the
floor near the center of the room and 2 feet (610 mm) inward from the center of
each exterior wall.
**** SECTION 603
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT ****
603.1   Mechanical equipment and appliances.
Mechanical equipment, appliances, fireplaces, solid fuel-burning appliances,
cooking appliances and water heating appliances shall be properly installed and
maintained in a safe working condition, and shall be capable of performing the
intended function.
603.2   Removal of combustion products.
Fuel-burning equipment and appliances shall be connected to an approved chimney
or vent.
   Exception: Fuel-burning equipment and appliances that are labeled for
unvented operation.
603.3   Clearances.
Required clearances to combustible materials shall be maintained.
603.4   Safety controls.
Safety controls for fuel-burning equipment shall be maintained in effective
operation.
603.5   Combustion air.
A supply of air for complete combustion of the fuel and for ventilation of the
space containing the fuel-burning equipment shall be provided for the fuel-
burning equipment.
603.6   Energy conservation devices.
Devices intended to reduce fuel consumption by attachment to a fuel-burning
appliance, to the fuel supply line thereto, or to the vent outlet or vent
piping therefrom, shall not be installed unless labeled for such purpose and
the installation is specifically approved.
**** SECTION 604
ELECTRICAL FACILITIES ****
604.1   Facilities required.
Every occupied building shall be provided with an electrical system in
compliance with the requirements of this section and Section 605.
604.2   Service.
The size and usage of appliances and equipment shall serve as a basis for
determining the need for additional facilities in accordance with NFPA 70.
Dwelling units shall be served by a three-wire, 120/240 volt, single-phase
electrical service having a minimum rating of 60 amperes.
604.3   Electrical system hazards.
Where it is found that the electrical system in a structure constitutes a
hazard to the occupants or the structure by reason of inadequate service,
improper fusing, insufficient receptacle and lighting outlets, improper wiring
or installation, deterioration or damage, or for similar reasons, the code
official shall require the defects to be corrected to eliminate the hazard.
   604.3.1   Abatement of electrical hazards associated with water exposure.
The provisions of this section shall govern the repair and replacement of
electrical systems and equipment that have been exposed to water.
      604.3.1.1   Electrical equipment.
Electrical distribution equipment, motor circuits, power equipment,
transformers, wire, cable, flexible cords, wiring devices, ground fault circuit
interrupters, surge protectors, molded case circuit breakers, low-voltage
fuses, luminaires, ballasts, motors and electronic control, signaling and
communication equipment that have been exposed to water shall be replaced in
accordance with the provisions of the International Building Code.
Exception: The following equipment shall be allowed to be repaired where an
inspection report from the equipment manufacturer or approved manufacturer's
representative indicates that the equipment has not sustained damage that
requires replacement:
   
      1.   Enclosed switches, rated not more than 600 volts or less.
      2.   Busway, rated not more than 600 volts.
      3.   Panelboards, rated not more than 600 volts.
      4.   Switchboards, rated not more than 600 volts.
      5.   Fire pump controllers, rated not more than 600 volts.
      6.   Manual and magnetic motor controllers.
 
      7.   Motor control centers.
 
      8.   Alternating current high-voltage circuit breakers.
 
      9.   Low-voltage power circuit breakers.
 
      10.   Protective relays, meters and current transformers.
 
      11.   Low- and medium-voltage switchgear.
 
      12.   Liquid-filled transformers.
 
      13.   Cast-resin transformers.
 
      14.   Wire or cable that is suitable for wet locations and whose ends
have not been exposed to water.
 
      15.   Wire or cable, not containing fillers, that is suitable for wet
locations and whose ends have not been exposed to water.
 
      16.   Luminaires that are listed as submersible.
 
      17.   Motors.
 
      18.   Electronic control, signaling and communication equipment.
 
   604.3.2   Abatement of electrical hazards associated with fire exposure.
The provisions of this section shall govern the repair and replacement of
electrical systems and equipment that have been exposed to fire.
 
   604.3.2.1   Electrical equipment.
Electrical switches, receptacles and fixtures, including furnace, water
heating, security system and power distribution circuits, that have been
exposed to fire, shall be replaced in accordance with the provisions of the
International Building Code.
 
Exception: Electrical switches, receptacles and fixtures that shall be allowed
to be repaired where an inspection report from the equipment manufacturer or
approved manufacturer's representative indicates that the equipment has not
sustained damage that requires replacement.
 
 
**** SECTION 605
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT ****
 
605.1   Installation.
Electrical equipment, wiring and appliances shall be properly installed and
maintained in a safe and approved manner.
 
605.2   Receptacles.
Every habitable space in a dwelling shall contain not less than two receptacle
outlets, though they need not be remote outlets. Instead, these outlets are to
be either on separate walls, or if on the same wall, are to be at least twelve
feet apart, measured horizontally.
 
Every laundry area shall contain not less than one grounding-type receptacle or
a receptacle with a ground fault circuit interrupter. Every bathroom shall
contain not less than one receptacle. Any new bathroom receptacle outlet shall
have ground fault circuit interrupter protection. All receptacle outlets shall
have the appropriate faceplate cover for the location.
 
605.3   Luminaires.
Every public hall, interior stairway, toilet room, kitchen, bathroom, laundry
room, boiler room and furnace room shall contain not less than one electric
luminaire. Pool and spa luminaires over 15 V shall have ground fault circuit
interrupter protection.
 
605.4   Wiring.
Flexible cords shall not be used for permanent wiring, or for running through
doors, windows, or cabinets, or concealed within walls, floors, or ceilings.
 
 
 
**** SECTION 606
ELEVATORS, ESCALATORS AND DUMBWAITERS ****
 
606.1   General.
Elevators, dumbwaiters and escalators shall be maintained in compliance with
ASME A17.1. The most current certificate of inspection shall be on display at
all times within the elevator or attached to the escalator or dumbwaiter, be
available for public inspection in the office of the building operator or be
posted in a publicly conspicuous location approved by the code official. The
inspection and tests shall be performed at not less than the periodic intervals
listed in ASME A17.1, Appendix N, except where otherwise specified by the
authority having jurisdiction.
 
606.2   Elevators.
In buildings equipped with passenger elevators, not less than one elevator
shall be maintained in operation at all times when the building is occupied.
 
Exception: Buildings equipped with only one elevator shall be permitted to have
the elevator temporarily out of service for testing or servicing.
 
**** SECTION 607
DUCT SYSTEMS ****
 
607.1   General.
Duct systems shall be maintained free of obstructions and shall be capable of
performing the required function.
 
CHAPTER 7
FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS
User note:
About this chapter: Chapter 7 establishes fire safety requirements for existing
structures by providing requirements for means of egress, including path of
travel, required egress width, means of egress doors and emergency escape
openings, and for the maintenance of fire-resistance-rated assemblies, fire
protection systems, and carbon monoxide alarm and detection systems.
**** SECTION 701
GENERAL ****
701.1   Scope.
The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum conditions and
standards for fire safety relating to structures and exterior premises,
including fire safety facilities and equipment to be provided.
701.2   Responsibility.
The owner of the premises shall provide and maintain such fire safety
facilities and equipment in compliance with these requirements. A person shall
not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another person to occupy any premises
that do not comply with the requirements of this chapter.
**** SECTION 702
MEANS OF EGRESS ****
[BE] 702.1 General.
A safe, continuous and unobstructed path of travel shall be provided from any
point in a building or structure to the public way. Means of egress shall
comply with the International Fire Code.
[BE] 702.2 Aisles.
The required width of aisles in accordance with the International Fire Code
shall be unobstructed.
[BE] 702.3 Locked doors.
Means of egress doors shall be readily openable from the side from which egress
is to be made without the need for keys, special knowledge or effort, except
where the door hardware conforms to that permitted by the International
Building Code.
[BE] 702.4 Emergency escape and rescue openings.
Required emergency escape and rescue openings shall be maintained in accordance
with the code in effect at the time of construction, and both of the following:
   1.   Required emergency escape and rescue openings shall be operational from
the inside of the room without the use of keys or tools.
   2.   Bars, grilles, grates or similar devices are permitted to be placed
over emergency escape and rescue openings provided that the minimum net clear
opening size complies with the code that was in effect at the time of
construction and the unit is equipped with smoke alarms installed in accordance
with Section 907.2.10 of the International Building Code. Such devices shall be
releasable or removable from the inside without the use of a key, tool or force
greater than that which is required for normal operation of the escape and
rescue opening.
 
**** SECTION 703
FIRE-RESISTANCE RATINGS ****
[BF] 703.1 Fire-resistance-rated assemblies.
The provisions of this chapter shall govern maintenance of the materials,
systems and assemblies used for structural fire resistance and fire-resistance-
rated construction separation of adjacent spaces to safeguard against the
spread of fire and smoke within a building and the spread of fire to or from
buildings.
[BF] 703.2 Unsafe conditions.
Where any components are not maintained and do not function as intended or do
not have the fire resistance required by the code under which the building was
constructed or altered, such components or portions thereof shall be deemed
unsafe conditions in accordance with Section 114.1.1 of the International Fire
Code. Components or portions thereof determined to be unsafe shall be repaired
or replaced to conform to that code under which the building was constructed or
altered. Where the condition of components is such that any building, structure
or portion thereof presents an imminent danger to the occupants of the
building, structure or portion thereof, the fire code official shall act in
accordance with Section 114.2 of the International Fire Code.
[BF] 703.3 Maintenance.
The required fire-resistance rating of fire-resistance-rated construction,
including walls, firestops, shaft enclosures, partitions, smoke barriers,
floors, fire-resistive coatings and sprayed fire-resistant materials applied to
structural members and joint systems, shall be maintained. Such elements shall
be visually inspected annually by the owner and repaired, restored or replaced
where damaged, altered, breached or penetrated. Records of inspections and
repairs shall be maintained. Where concealed, such elements shall not be
required to be visually inspected by the owner unless the concealed space is
accessible by the removal or movement of a panel, access door, ceiling tile or
entry to the space. Openings made therein for the passage of pipes, electrical
conduit, wires, ducts, air transfer and any other reason shall be protected
with approved methods capable of resisting the passage of smoke and fire.
Openings through fire-resistance-rated assemblies shall be protected by self-
or automatic-closing doors of approved construction meeting the fire protection
requirements for the assembly.
   [BF] 703.3.1 Fire blocking and draft stopping.
Required fire blocking and draft stopping in combustible concealed spaces shall
be maintained to provide continuity and integrity of the construction.
   [BF] 703.3.2 Smoke barriers and smoke partitions.
Required smoke barriers and smoke partitions shall be maintained to prevent the
passage of smoke. Openings protected with approved smoke barrier doors or smoke
dampers shall be maintained in accordance with NFPA 105.
   [BF] 703.3.3 Fire walls, fire barriers, and fire partitions.
Required fire walls, fire barriers and fire partitions shall be maintained to
prevent the passage of fire. Openings protected with approved doors or fire
dampers shall be maintained in accordance with NFPA 80.
[BF] 703.4 Opening protectives.
Opening protectives shall be maintained in an operative condition in accordance
with NFPA 80. The application of field-applied labels associated with the
maintenance of opening protectives shall follow the requirements of the
approved third-party certification organization accredited for listing the
opening protective. Fire doors and smoke barrier doors shall not be blocked or
obstructed, or otherwise made inoperable. Fusible links shall be replaced
whenever fused or damaged. Fire door assemblies shall not be modified.
[BF] 703.4.1 Signs.
Where required by the code official, a sign shall be permanently displayed on
or near each fire door in letters not less than 1 inch (25 mm) high to read as
follows:
   1.   For doors designed to be kept normally open: FIRE DOOR - DO NOT BLOCK.
   2.   For doors designed to be kept normally closed: FIRE DOOR - KEEP CLOSED.
[BF] 703.4.2 Hold-open devices and closers.
Hold-open devices and automatic door closers shall be maintained. During the
period that such a device is out of service for repairs, the door it operates
shall remain in the closed position.
[BF] 703.4.3 Door operation.
Swinging fire doors shall close from the full-open position and latch
automatically. The door closer shall exert enough force to close and latch the
door from any partially open position.
[BF] 703.5 Ceilings.
The hanging and displaying of salable goods and other decorative materials from
acoustical ceiling systems that are part of a fire-resistance-rated horizontal
assembly shall be prohibited.
[BF] 703.6 Testing.
Horizontal and vertical sliding and rolling fire doors shall be inspected and
tested annually to confirm operation and full closure. Records of inspections
and testing shall be maintained.
[BF] 703.7 Vertical shafts.
Interior vertical shafts, including stairways, elevator hoistways and service
and utility shafts, which connect two or more stories of a building shall be
enclosed or protected as required in Chapter 11 of the International Fire Code.
New floor openings in existing buildings shall comply with the International
Building Code.
[BF] 703.8 Opening protective closers.
Where openings are required to be protected, opening protectives shall be
maintained self-closing or automatic-closing by smoke detection. Existing
fusible-link-type automatic door-closing devices shall be replaced if the
fusible link rating exceeds 135°F (57°C).
**** SECTION 704
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS ****
[F] 704.1 Inspection, testing and maintenance.
Fire protection and life safety systems shall be maintained in accordance with
the International Fire Code in an operative condition at all times, and shall
be replaced or repaired where defective.
   [F] 704.1.1 Fire protection and life safety systems.
Fire protection and life safety systems shall be installed, repaired, operated
and maintained in accordance with this code the International Fire Code and the
International Building Code.
   [F] 704.1.2 Required fire protection and life safety systems.
Fire protection and life safety systems required by this code, the
International Fire Code or the International Building Code shall be installed,
repaired, operated, tested and maintained in accordance with this code. A fire
protection and life safety system for which a design option, exception or
reduction to the provisions of this code, the International Fire Code or the
International Building Code has been granted shall be considered to be a
required system.
   [F]   704.1.3 Fire protection systems.
Fire protection systems shall be inspected, maintained and tested in accordance
with the following International Fire Code requirements.
   1.   Automatic sprinkler systems, see Section 903.5.
   2.   Automatic fire-extinguishing systems protecting commercial cooking
systems, see Section 904.13.5.
   3.   Automatic water mist extinguishing systems, see Section 904.11.
   4.   Carbon dioxide extinguishing systems, see Section 904.8.
   5.   Carbon monoxide alarms and carbon monoxide detection systems, see
Section 915.6.
   6.   Clean-agent extinguishing systems, see Section 904.10.
   7.   Dry-chemical extinguishing systems, see Section 904.6.
 
   8.   Fire alarm and fire detection systems, see Section 907.8.
 
   9.   Fire department connections, see Sections 912.4 and 912.7.
 
   10.   Fire pumps, see Section 913.5.
 
   11.   Foam extinguishing systems, see Section 904.7.
 
   12.   Halon extinguishing systems, see Section 904.9.
 
   13.   Single- and multiple-station smoke alarms, see Section 907.10.
 
   14.   Smoke and heat vents and mechanical smoke removal systems, see Section
910.5.
 
   15.   Smoke control systems, see Section 909.22.
 
   16.   Wet-chemical extinguishing systems, see Section 904.5.
 
[F] 704.2 Standards.
Fire protection systems shall be inspected, tested and maintained in accordance
with the referenced standards listed in Table 704.2 and as required in this
section.
 
TABLE 704.2
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
 
SYSTEM                                   STANDARD
Portable fire extinguishers              NFPA 10
Carbon dioxide fire-extinguishing system NFPA 12
Halon 1301 fire-extinguishing systems    NDPA 12A
Dry-chemical extinguishing systems       NFPA 17
Wet-chemical extinguishing systems       NFPA 17A
Water-based fire protection systems      NFPA 25
Fire alarm systems                       NFPA 72
Smoke and heat vents                     NFPA 204
Water-mist systems                       NFPA 750
Clean-agent extinguishing systems        NFPA 2001
 
   [F] 704.2.1 Records.
Records shall be maintained of all system inspections, tests and maintenance
required by the referenced standards.
 
   [F] 704.2.2 Records information.
Initial records shall include the: name of the installation contractor; type of
components installed; manufacturer of the components; location and number of
components installed per floor; and manufacturers' operation and maintenance
instruction manuals. Such records shall be maintained for the life of the
installation.
 
[F] 704.3 Systems out of service.
Where a required fire protection system is out of service, the fire department
and the fire code official shall be notified immediately and, where required by
the fire code official, either the building shall be evacuated or an approved
fire watch shall be provided for all occupants left unprotected by the shutdown
until the fire protection system has been returned to service. Where utilized,
fire watches shall be provided with not less than one approved means for
notification of the fire department and shall not have duties beyond performing
constant patrols of the protected premises and keeping watch for fires. Actions
shall be taken in accordance with Section 901 of the International Fire Code to
bring the systems back in service.
 
Exception: Facilities with an approved notification and impairment management
program. The notification and impairment program for water-based fire
protection systems shall comply with NFPA 25.
 
   [F] 704.3.1 Emergency impairments.
Where unplanned impairments of fire protection systems occur, appropriate
emergency action shall be taken to minimize potential injury and damage. The
impairment coordinator shall implement the steps outlined in Section 901.7.4 of
the International Fire Code.
 
[F] 704.4 Removal of or tampering with equipment.
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, tamper with or otherwise disturb
any fire protection or life safety system required by this code except for the
purposes of extinguishing fire, training, recharging or making necessary
repairs.
 
   [F] 704.4.1 Removal of or tampering with appurtenances.
Locks, gates, doors, barricades, chains, enclosures, signs, tags and seals that
have been installed by or at the direction of the fire code official shall not
be removed, unlocked, destroyed or tampered with in any manner.
 
   [F]   704.4.2 Removal of existing occupant-use hose lines.
The fire code official is authorized to permit the removal of existing
occupant-use hose lines where all of the following apply:
 
   1.   The installation is not required by the International Fire Code or the
International Building Code.
 
   2.   The hose line would not be utilized by trained personnel or the fire
department.
 
   3.   The remaining outlets are compatible with local fire department
fittings.
 
   [F] 704.4.3 Termination of monitoring service.
For fire alarm systems required to be monitored by the International Fire Code,
notice shall be made to the fire code official whenever alarm monitoring
services are terminated. Notice shall be made in writing by the provider of the
monitoring service being terminated.
 
[F] 704.5 Fire department connection.
Where the fire department connection is not visible to approaching fire
apparatus, the fire department connection shall be indicated by an approved
sign mounted on the street front or on the side of the building. Such sign
shall have the letters "FDC" not less than 6 inches (152 mm) high and words in
letters not less than 2 inches (51 mm) high or an arrow to indicate the
location. Such signs shall be subject to the approval of the fire code
official.
 
   [F] 704.5.1 Fire department connection access.
Ready access to fire department connections shall be maintained at all times
and without obstruction by fences, bushes, trees, walls or any other fixed or
movable object. Access to fire department connections shall be approved by the
fire chief.
 
Exception: Fences, where provided with an access gate equipped with a sign
complying with the legend requirements of Section 912.5 of the International
Fire Code and a means of emergency operation. The gate and the means of
emergency operation shall be approved by the fire chief and maintained
operational at all times.
 
   [F] 704.5.2 Clear space around connections.
A working space of not less than 36 inches (914 mm) in width, 36 inches (914
mm) in depth and 78 inches (1981 mm) in height shall be provided and maintained
in front of and to the sides of wall-mounted fire department connections and
around the circumference of free-standing fire department connections.
 
[F]   704.6 Single- and multiple-station smoke alarms.
Single- and multiple-station smoke alarms shall be installed in existing Group
I-1 and R occupancies in accordance with Sections 704.6.1 through 704.6.3.
 
   [F]   704.6.1 Where required.
Existing Group I-1 and R occupancies shall be provided with single-station
smoke alarms in accordance with Sections 704.6.1.1 through 704.6.1.4.
Interconnection and power sources shall be in accordance with Sections 704.6.2
and 704.6.3.
 
   Exceptions:
 
   1.   Where the code that was in effect at the time of construction required
smoke alarms and smoke alarms complying with those requirements are already
provided.
 
   2.   Where smoke alarms have been installed in occupancies and dwellings
that were not required to have them at the time of construction, additional
smoke alarms shall not be required provided that the existing smoke alarms
comply with requirements that were in effect at the time of installation.
 
   3.   Where smoke detectors connected to a fire alarm system have been
installed as a substitute for smoke alarms.
 
   [F]   704.6.1.1 Group R-1.
Single- or multiple-station smoke alarms shall be installed in all of the
following locations in Group R-1:
   1.   In sleeping areas.
 
   2.   In every room in the path of the means of egress from the sleeping area
to the door leading from the sleeping unit.
 
   3.   In each story within the sleeping unit, including basements. For
sleeping units with split levels and without an intervening door between the
adjacent levels, a smoke alarm installed on the upper level shall suffice for
the adjacent lower level provided that the lower level is less than one full
story below the upper level.
 
   [F]   704.6.1.2 Groups R-2, R-3, R-4 and I-1.
Single or multiple-station smoke alarms shall be installed and maintained in
Groups R-2, R-3, R-4 and I-1 regardless of occupant load at all of the
following locations:
 
   1.   On the ceiling or wall outside of each separate sleeping area in the
immediate vicinity of bedrooms.
 
   2.   In each room used for sleeping purposes.
 
   3.   In each story within a dwelling unit, including basements but not
including crawl spaces and uninhabitable attics. In dwellings or dwelling units
with split levels and without an intervening door between the adjacent levels,
a smoke alarm installed on the upper level shall suffice for the adjacent lower
level provided that the lower level is less than one full story below the upper
level.
 
   [F]   704.6.1.3 Installation near cooking appliances.
Smoke alarms shall not be installed in the following locations unless this
would prevent placement of a smoke alarm in a location required by Section
704.6.1.1 or 704.6.1.2.
   1.   Ionization smoke alarms shall not be installed less than 20 feet (6096
m) horizontally from a permanently installed cooking appliance.
 
   2.   Ionization smoke alarms with an alarm-silencing switch shall not be
installed less than 10 feet (3048 mm) horizontally from a permanently installed
cooking appliance.
 
   3.   Photoelectric smoke alarms shall not be installed less than 6 feet
(1829 mm) horizontally from a permanently installed cooking appliance.
 
   [F] 704.6.1.4 Installation near bathrooms.
Smoke alarms shall be installed not less than 3 feet (914 mm) horizontally from
the door or opening of a bathroom that contains a bathtub or shower unless this
would prevent placement of a smoke alarm required by Section 704.6.1.1 or
704.6.1.2.
 
[F]   704.6.2 Interconnection.
Where more than one smoke alarm is required to be installed within an
individual dwelling or sleeping unit, the smoke alarms shall be interconnected
in such a manner that the activation of one alarm will activate all of the
alarms in the individual unit. Physical interconnection of smoke alarms shall
not be required where listed wireless alarms are installed and all alarms sound
upon activation of one alarm. The alarm shall be clearly audible in all
bedrooms over background noise levels with all intervening doors closed.
 
   Exceptions:
 
   1.   Interconnection is not required in buildings that are not undergoing
alterations, repairs or construction of any kind.
 
   2.   Smoke alarms in existing areas are not required to be interconnected
where alterations or repairs do not result in the removal of interior wall or
ceiling finishes exposing the structure, unless there is an attic, crawl space
or basement available that could provide access for interconnection without the
removal of interior finishes.
 
[F]   704.6.3 Power source.
Single-station smoke alarms shall receive their primary power from the building
wiring provided that such wiring is served from a commercial source and shall
be equipped with a battery backup. Smoke alarms with integral strobes that are
not equipped with battery backup shall be connected to an emergency electrical
system. Smoke alarms shall emit a signal when the batteries are low. Wiring
shall be permanent and without a disconnecting switch other than as required
for overcurrent protection.
 
   Exceptions:
 
   1.   Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated in existing
buildings where construction is not taking place.
 
   2.   Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated in buildings
that are not served from a commercial power source.
 
   3.   Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated in existing
areas of buildings undergoing alterations or repairs that do not result in the
removal of interior walls or ceiling finishes exposing the structure, unless
there is an attic, crawl space or basement available that could provide access
for building wiring without the removal of interior finishes.
 
[F]   704.6.4 Smoke detection system.
Smoke detectors listed in accordance with UL 268 and provided as part of the
building's fire alarm system shall be an acceptable alternative to single- and
multiple-station smoke alarms and shall comply with the following:
   
   1.   The fire alarm system shall comply with all applicable requirements in
Section 90
7 of the International Fire Code.
 
   2.   Activation of a smoke detector in a dwelling or sleeping unit shall
initiate alarm notification in the dwelling or sleeping unit in accordance with
Section 907.5.2 of the International Fire Code.
 
   3.   Activation of a smoke detector in a dwelling or sleeping unit shall not
activate alarm notification appliances outside of the dwelling or sleeping
unit, provided that a supervisory signal is generated and monitored in
accordance with Section 907.6.6 of the International Fire Code.
 
[F] 704.7 Single- and multiple-station smoke alarms.
Single- and multiple-station smoke alarms shall be tested and maintained in
accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. Smoke alarms that do not
function shall be replaced. Smoke alarms installed in one- and two-family
dwellings shall be replaced not more than 10 years from the date of manufacture
marked on the unit, or shall be replaced if the date of manufacture cannot be
determined.
 
**** SECTION 705
CARBON MONOXIDE ALARMS AND DETECTION ****
 
[F] 705.1 General.
Carbon monoxide alarms shall be installed in dwellings in accordance with
Section 1103.9 of the International Fire Code, except that alarms in dwellings
covered by the International Residential Code shall be installed in accordance
with Section R315 of that code.
 
[F] 705.2 Carbon monoxide alarms and detectors.
Carbon monoxide alarms and carbon monoxide detection systems shall be
maintained in accordance with NFPA 720. Carbon monoxide alarms and carbon
monoxide detectors that become inoperable or begin producing end-of-life
signals shall be replaced.
 
CHAPTER 8
RESIDENTIAL RENTALS
800.1   Inspection.
   A.   As soon as reasonably practicable after the tenants have vacated a
dwelling unit, the commissioner of buildings shall cause an inspection of the
dwelling unit and any other areas of the premises available for use by the
tenants of that dwelling unit (hereinafter called "accessory property") to be
made as described elsewhere in this Property Maintenance Code.
   B.   At the time notice of change of occupancy of any dwelling unit is
given, the owner or operator of the dwelling shall complete an inspection form
and schedule an appointment for a time during normal business hours in order
for the owner or operator to admit the code official or a representative
thereof.
   C.   The owner or operator of a premise with a rental unit is subject to
have the interior of its structures and rental units inspected, at any time, in
response to a complaint of an alleged violation of any of the provisions of
this Chapter or the provisions of the application of city of Oakwood Codes. For
purposes of this provision, a complaint shall be deemed "received" if it is: a.
Submitted in writing; b. Includes a description of the real estate or dwelling
sufficient for identification; c. Includes the name of the landlord, managing
agent, or operator and contact information sufficient to contact the owner,
operator, or agent; d. Includes a clear statement of the alleged violation or
condition that leads to the belief that a violation exists.
   D.   The owner of a rental until shall pay an inspection fee for any
interior inspection performed as required by subsection B of this section,
except as exempted under E below. The amount of the fee shall initially be
$50.00 per unit inspected, but shall subsequently be reviewed and increased if
the City Manager determines it necessary to cover the cost of the inspection.
   E.   No fee shall be required for an interior inspection prompted by a
complaint submitted under Subsection C unless violations are noted at which
time the property owner will be charged an inspection fee as established by
subsection D above. F. Money collected under this Section shall be used
exclusively for rental unit inspection purposes.
800.2   Access to Unit.
   A.   Access by Owner or Operator. Every occupant of a rental unit shall
give, upon proper notice, the owner or operator thereof, or his/her agent or
employee, access to any part of such rental unit at all reasonable times for
the purpose of effecting such maintenance, making such repairs or making such
alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with any lawful notice or
order issued pursuant to the provisions of the applicable city of Oakwood
Codes.
   B.   Access by Code Official. The Code Official or his/her duly authorized
designee is hereby authorized to conduct inspections of any rental unit within
the city of Oakwood in order to perform the duty of safeguarding the health,
safety and welfare of the occupants and the public under the provisions of this
chapter. Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this Chapter or the provisions of the Codified Ordinances of the
city of Oakwood or whenever the Code Official or his/her duly authorized
designee has probable cause to believe that there exists in any rental unit any
condition which makes such rental unit in violation of any of the provisions of
this Chapter or the provisions of the applicable city of Oakwood codes, the
Code Official or his/her duly authorized designee may enter such rental unit at
all reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon
the Code Official by this Chapter or other applicable provisions of the
Codified Ordinances of Oakwood. If such rental unit is occupied, the Code
Official shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the occupant, giving at
least 24-hour notice of intent to inspect the premises and at least 24-hour
notice of right to refuse entry. For purposes of Section 106 of the Property
Maintenance Code, it shall be a violation of Section 800 et seq. to willfully
refuse to respond to a notice of intent to inspect the premises. It shall not
be a violation of any Ordinance of the city of Oakwood to reasonably refuse to
permit entry to a Code Official upon notice. After provision of the 24-hour
notice of intent to inspect, the Code Official or his/her duly authorized
design shall at such time:
      1.   Identify himself/herself and his/her position;
   
      2.   Explain why entry is sought;
      3.   Explain that the owner/operator or tenant of an occupied rental unit
or other person(s) having charge or control of an unoccupied rental unit may
refuse, without penalty, entry without a search warrant;
      4.   Provide documentation of written notice to the owner/operator giving
7- day notice of deficiency. (Such notice shall not be construed to imply that
the repairs need to be completed at that time.)
   C.   Search Warrant. If consent to inspect a rental unit is withheld by any
person or persons having the lawful right to exclude, the Code Official or his/
her duly authorized designee may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for
a search warrant of the rental unit. No owner/operator or occupant or any
person having charge, care or control of a rental unit shall fail or neglect,
after presentation of a search warrant, to properly permit entry therein by the
Official or his/her duly authorized designee for the purpose of inspection and
examination pursuant to this Chapter.
800.3   Supplementation of Information Filed With County Auditor Pursuant to RC
§ 5323.
Within fifteen (15) days of mailing of the city of Oakwood's request for tenant
information, and within fifteen (15) days after any change of tenant(s)
occupying the property, the owner of residential rental property shall submit
to the code official, on the form provided, the following information for each
tenant occupying each residential rental property registered with the County
Auditor pursuant to Ohio Revised Code § 5323:
   1.   Each tenant's full name;
   2.   Each tenant's relationship, or lack thereof, to any other persons
residing in the same dwelling unit;
   3.   The date on which each tenant's occupancy commenced; and
   4.   A valid telephone number that can be used by the City to contact
tenants directly in case of emergency or other problem. (It is not necessary to
provide separate telephone numbers for each tenant, so long as at least one
telephone number is provided.) Failure to properly register the property with
the County Auditor shall not relieve the owner of the reporting obligation
under this section.
**** SECTION 801
Short-term Rentals Prohibited. ****
801.1   Purpose.
Council of the city of Oakwood has determined that the short-term rental of
residential property is inconsistent with the permanence, established
character, density, and tranquility of Oakwood's residential neighborhoods and
is potentially detrimental to property values. The purpose and intent of this
ordinance is to prohibit short-term rentals to protect and preserve these
qualities of Oakwood's residential neighborhoods and to provide for the
comfort, safety, and welfare of Oakwood residents.
801.2   Definitions.
 
   A.   "Transient Occupancy" means the right to use, occupy or possess, or the
actual use, occupancy or possession, of the following, as defined by the
Oakwood Zoning Ordinance: a Dwelling Unit, Single Family Dwelling, Two Family
Dwelling, or Multiple-Family Dwelling; or a portion of any of the
aforementioned; for a period of twenty five (25) consecutive calendar days or
less.
   B.   "Transient Rental" means the renting, letting, subletting, leasing or
subleasing of the following, as defined by the Oakwood Zoning Ordinance: a
Dwelling Unit, Single Family Dwelling, Two Family Dwelling, or Multiple Family
Dwelling; or a portion of any of the aforementioned; for Transient Occupancy
use.
801.3   Prohibition.
On or after January 1, 2020, no person shall operate, let, list, advertise, or
otherwise make available, any residential property in the city of Oakwood for
Transient Rental purposes.
 
CHAPTER 9
REFERENCED STANDARDS
User note:
About this chapter: This code contains numerous references to standards
promulgated by other organizations that are used to provide requirements for
materials and methods of construction. Chapter 8 contains a comprehensive list
of all standards that are referenced in this code. These standards, in essence,
are part of this code to the extent of the reference to the standard.
This chapter lists the standards that are referenced in various sections of
this document. The standards are listed herein by the promulgating agency of
the standard, the standard identification, the effective date and title and the
section or sections of this document that reference the standard. The
application of the referenced standards shall be as specified in Section 102.8.
ASTM   ASTM International 100 Barr Harbor Drive,
P.O. Box C700
West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959
F1346-91 (2018): Performance Specifications for Safety Covers and Labeling
Requirements for All Covers for Swimming Pools, Spas and Hot Tubs
303.2   
ICC   International Code
Council 500 New Jersey Avenue,
NW
6th Floor Washington, DC 20001
®
IBC-21: International Building Code   
102.3, 201.3, 304.1.1, 305.1.1, 306.1.1, 403.1, 604.3.1.1,
604.3.2.1, 702.3, 704.4.2
IEBC-21: International Existing Building Code®
102.3, 201.3, 304.1.1, 305.1.1, 306.1.1
IECC-21: International Energy Conservation Code®
102.3   
IFC-21: International Fire Code®   
102.3, 201.3, 604.3.1.1, 702.1, 702.2, 704.1, 704.1.2, 704.1.3,
704.3, 704.3.1, 704.4.2, 704.4.3, 704.5.1, 704.6.4, 705.1
 
IFGC-21: International Fuel Gas Code®
102.3, 201.3
®
IMC-21: International Mechanical Code
102.3, 201.3
IPC-21: International Plumbing Code®
102.3, 201.3, 502.5, 505.1, 505.5.1, 602.2, 602.3
IRC-21: International Residential Code®
102.3, 201.3
®
IZC-21: International Zoning Code
102.3, 201.3
NFPA   National Fire Protection
Association 1 Batterymarch Park
Quincy, MA 02169-7471
10-21: Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers
Table 704.2   
12-18: Standard on Carbon Dioxide Extinguishing Systems
Table 704.2   
12A-18: Standard on Halon 1301 Fire Extinguishing Systems
Table 704.2   
17-20: Standard for Dry Chemical Extinguishing Systems
Table 704.2   
17A-20: Standard for Wet Chemical Extinguishing Systems
Table 704.2   
25-20: Standard for the Inspection, Testing and Maintenance of Water-Based Fire
Protection Systems
Table 704.2   
70-20: National Electrical Code   
102.3, 201.3, 604.2   
72-19: National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code
Table 704.2   
80-19: Standard for Fire Doors and Other Opening Protectives
703.3.3, 703.4   
105-19: Standard for Smoke Door Assemblies and Other Opening Protectives
703.3.2   
204-18: Standard for Smoke and Heat Venting
Table 704.2   
720-15: Standard for the Installation of Carbon Monoxide (CO) Detection and
Warning Equipment
705.2   
750-19: Standard on Water Mist Fire Protection Systems
Table 704.2   
2001-18: Standard on Clean Agent Fire Extinguishing Systems
Table 704.2   
 
UL   Underwriters Laboratories, LLC 333 Pfingsten Road
Northbrook, IL 60062
268-2016: Smoke Detectors for Fire Alarm Systems-with revisions through July
2016
704.6.4   
 
APPENDIX A
BOARDING STANDARD
The provisions contained in this appendix are not mandatory unless specifically
referenced in the adopting ordinance.
User note:
About this appendix: Appendix A provides minimum specifications for boarding a
structure. This can be utilized by a jurisdiction as a set of minimum
requirements in order to result in consistent boarding quality. These
requirements also provide a reasonable means to eliminate having to approve
numerous methods or materials for the boarding and securing of a structure. It
is important to note that the provisions of Appendix A are not mandatory unless
specifically referenced in the adopting ordinance of the authority having
jurisdiction.
A101
GENERAL
A101.1 General.
Windows and doors shall be boarded in an approved manner to prevent entry by
unauthorized persons and shall be painted to correspond to the color of the
existing structure.
A102
MATERIALS
A102.1 Boarding sheet material.
1Boarding sheet material shall be minimum-inch-thick (12.7 mm) wood structural
panels complying with the International Building Code.
A102.2 Boarding framing material.
Boarding framing material shall be minimum nominal 2-inch by 4-inch (51 mm by
102 mm) solid sawn lumber complying with the International Building Code.
A102.3 Boarding fasteners.
Boarding fasteners shall be minimum
 
3 -inch-diameter (9.5 mm) carriage bolts of such a length as 8
 
required to penetrate the assembly and as required to adequately attach the
washers and nuts. Washers and nuts shall comply with the International Building
Code.
 
A103
INSTALLATION
A103.1 Boarding installation.
The boarding installation shall be in accordance with Figures A103.1(1) and
A103.1(2) and Sections A103.2 through A103.5.
 
[Image]
For SI: 1 inch = 25.4 mm.
FIGURE A103.1(1) BOARDING OF DOOR OR WINDOW
 
 
For SI: 1 inch = 25.4 mm
FIGURE A103.1(2) BOARDING OF DOOR WALL
 
[Image]
A103.2 Boarding sheet material.
The boarding sheet material shall be cut to fit the door or window opening
neatly or shall be cut to provide an equal overlap at the perimeter of the door
or window.
A103.3 Windows.
The window shall be opened to allow the carriage bolt to pass through or the
window sash shall be removed and stored. The 2-inch by 4-inch (51 mm by 102 mm)
strong back framing material shall be cut minimum 2 inches (51 mm) wider than
the window opening and shall be placed on the inside of the window opening 6
inches (152 mm) minimum above the bottom and below the top of the window
opening. The framing and boarding shall be predrilled. The assembly shall be
aligned and the bolts, washers and nuts shall be installed and secured.
A103.4 Door walls.
The door opening shall be framed with minimum 2-inch by 4-inch (51 mm by 102
mm) framing material secured at the entire perimeter and vertical members at a
maximum of 24 inches (610 mm) on center.
Blocking shall also be secured at a maximum of 48 inches (1219 mm) on center
vertically. Boarding sheet material shall be secured with screws and nails
alternating every 6 inches (152 mm) on center.
A103.5 Doors.
Doors shall be secured by the same method as for windows or door openings. One
door to the structure shall be available for authorized entry and shall be
secured and locked in an approved manner.
 
A104
REFERENCED STANDARD
A104.1 Referenced standards.
Table A104.1 lists the standard that is referenced in various sections of this
appendix. The standard is listed herein by the standard identification, the
effective date and title and the section or sections of this document that
reference the standard. The application of the referenced standards shall be as
specified in Section
102.8 .
TABLE A104.1
REFERENCED STANDARD
 
STANDARD STANDARD                    SECTIONS HEREIN
ACRONYM  NAME                        REFERENCED
IBC-21   International Building Code A102.1, A102.2, A102.3
APPENDIX B (DELETED)
 
