TOWN OF DAVENPORT, OKLAHOMA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. 2026-2-26 published 2-26-2026
 
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 (800) 445-5588
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions and notes
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to statutes
   
10.09   Reference to other sections
   
10.10   Reference to offices
   
10.11   Errors and omissions
   
10.12   Official time
   
10.13   Reasonable time
   
10.14   Ordinances repealed
   
10.15   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.16   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.17   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.18   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.19   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.99   General penalty
Statutory reference:
   Town ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-101 et seq.
   General powers, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-101 et seq.
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   This code may be cited as the “Davenport Town Code” or other properly
identifying description.
   (B)   When a change or changes have been prepared and inserted in the code
as provided herein below, the words “as amended” may be added to the citation
or title when referring to the code as amended.
Statutory reference:
   Adoption and revision of codes of ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-108 and 14-
109
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS AND NOTES.
   (A)   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
   (B)   Notes indicating sources of sections, giving other information or
referring to statutes or to other parts of the code are inserted in the code,
and may be inserted in changes to the code, for the convenience of persons
using the code, and shall have no legal effect.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary, and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD or BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Board of Trustees of the Town of
Davenport, Oklahoma.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY. The County of Lincoln, Oklahoma.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving JOINT AUTHORITY to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving authority to a majority of the
persons or officers.
      LAW. Applicable federal law, provisions of the state constitution and
state statutes, the ordinances of the town, and, when appropriate, any and all
rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the town.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OTHER OFFICIALS or OFFICERS AND THE LIKE. Whenever reference is made to
officers, agencies, or departments by title only, such as “Clerk,” “Treasurer,”
“Town Clerk,” “Town Treasurer,” “Town Attorney,” “Fire Chief,” “Police Chief,”
and the like, they shall mean the officers, agencies, or departments of the
town.
      PERSON. Includes natural persons, corporations (private and public),
partnerships, and all other unincorporated organizations, trusts, estates, and
government agencies, except when a contrary intention plainly appears.
      PRECEDING; FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Oklahoma.
      STATUTORY REFERENCES. References to the statutes of the state as they now
are or as they may be amended.
      STREET. Street, avenue, boulevard, road, alley, lane, viaduct, highway,
court, place, square, curb, or any other public way in the town which is
dedicated and open to public use.
      SUBCHAPTER.
         (a)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
         (b)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TOWN. The Town of Davenport, Oklahoma.
      WEEK. Seven days.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender. Words used in the masculine gender in this code or in other
ordinances of the town include the feminine and neuter.
   (D)   Singular and plural. Words used in the singular number in this code or
in other ordinances of the town include the plural, and the plural the
singular.
   (E)   Tenses. The use of a verb in the present tense shall include the
future, if applicable.
   (F)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If a part of this code or of any ordinance passed by the Board of
Trustees after this code goes into effect is invalid, all valid parts which are
severable from the invalid parts remain in effect.
   (B)   If a part of this code or of any ordinance passed hereinafter is
invalid in one or more of its applications, the part remains in effect in all
valid applications which are severable from the invalid applications.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO STATUTES.
   (A)   Reference to the statutes of the state shall mean the statutes as they
are now or as they may be amended.
   (B)   A reference to the Oklahoma Statutes for a certain year also means the
comparable provision when included in future codifications.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.10 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.11 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words were
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.12 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the town for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.13 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   All ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general
nature passed prior to and in effect at the time the code is adopted but not
included in the code are hereby repealed as of the time when the code goes into
effect.
   (B)   Ordinances passed on or after that date shall not be repealed or
amended by the adoption of the code.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.16 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.17 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former, ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.18 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature
passed or adopted on and after the most recent ordinance included in this code
of ordinances may be passed or adopted either in the form of amendments to this
code of ordinances or without specific reference to the code, but in either
case, all ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed amendments to the
code, and all of the substantive permanent and general parts of the ordinances
and changes made thereby in the code shall be inserted and made in the code
whenever authorized or directed by motion, resolution, or ordinance of the
Board of Trustees, as provided hereinafter.
§ 10.19 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, as well as any amendments, are listed following
the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15,
passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (11 O.S. § 4-102) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see 51 O.S.
§§ 24A.1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town and subsequently amended, the prior code section number
shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, § 4-1-1).”
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided by state law, whenever in this code or
in any ordinance of the town an act is prohibited or is made or declared to be
unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in the code or ordinance
the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any
provision of this code or of any ordinance, upon conviction, shall be punished
by a fine not exceeding $500, exclusive of court costs and mandated CLEET and
OSBI assessments. Each day or any portion of a day during which any violation
of this code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense.
      (2)   Any person who shall aid, abet, or assist in the violation of any
provision of this code or any other ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in this
section.
      (3)   If a person is driving under suspension, revocation, cancellation,
denial, or disqualification, or the person has not been granted driving
privileges by the state or any other state, then the fine and fees of any
citation other than the driving under suspension (and the like) charge itself,
are required to be doubled.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
   (B)   Fines recoverable by civil action. All fines shall be recoverable by
civil action before any court of competent jurisdiction in addition to any
other method provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   The penalty provided in this section shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section.
      (2)   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is
created by different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer
may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
      (3)   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this section shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-3)
   (D)   Liability of officers. No provision of this code designating the
duties of any officer or employee shall be so construed as to make such officer
or employee liable for any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform
such duty, unless the intention of the Board of Trustees to impose such fine or
penalty on such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in
the section creating the duty.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-4)
   (E)   Bonds and fines.
      (1)   The schedule of fines should be as follows:
Offense Bond/Fine
Offense                                                           Bond/Fine
All parking violations                                            $69
Dogs at large                                                     $99
Unauthorized person driving motor vehicle                         $259
Untagged dogs                                                     $99
Assault                                                           $359
Assault and battery                                               $459
Attempting to elude a police officer                              $500
Improper boating or swimming                                      $99
Carrying a concealed weapon                                       $500
Contributing to a delinquency of a minor                          $500
Cruelty to animals                                                $500
Disabled auto in residential area                                 $300
Discharge of a firearm in town limits                             $259
Disturbing the peace                                              $159
Drunk and disorderly (disturbing the peace)                       $259
Driving under suspension - 1st offense                            $159
Driving under suspension - 2nd offense                            $199
Driving under suspension - 3rd offense                            $251
Excessive noise                                                   $159
Expired or improper tag                                           $159
Failure to have driver’s license in possession                  $99
Failure to comply with compulsory insurance law                   $159
Failure to stop for a school bus unloading                        $301
Failure to stop at stop sign                                      $159
Failure to utilize child safety restraints                        $201
Failure to wear seat belt                                         $20
Failure to yield for oncoming traffic                             $159
Failure to yield or stop for emergency vehicle                    $259
Giving false information to a police officer                      $259
High grass/weeds - 1st offense                                    $159
High grass/weeds - 2nd offense                                    $359
High grass/weeds - 3rd offense                                    $500
Unlawful discharge of fireworks in city limits                    $79
Following too close                                               $119
Illegal lane use                                                  $119
Illegal U-turn                                                    $79
Improper display of blue or red light                             $259
Improper passing                                                  $200
Improper right/left turn                                          $144
Interfering with a police officer                                 $500
Larceny, petit                                                    $359
Leaving the scene of an accident                                  $459
Littering                                                         $99
No driver’s license                                             $149
No driver’s license - 2nd offense in 1 year                     $199
No driver's license - 3rd offense in 1 year                       $251
Operating a motorcycle without endorsement                        $79
Minor in possession of beer                                       $259
Minor in possession of liquor                                     $359
Possession of controlled dangerous substance                      $500
Possession of drug paraphernalia                                  $259
Possession of tobacco by minor                                    $79
Public intoxication                                               $159
Resisting arrest                                                  $500
Running over fire hose/unlawful use of fire hydrant               $259
Selling alcohol to a minor                                        $500
Selling tobacco to a person under 21                              $259
Speeding (fines double in school zone)
   1-10 miles over limit                                       $119
   11-15 miles over limit                                      $139
   16-20 miles over limit                                      $159
   21-25 miles over limit                                      $179
   26 miles and over                                           $200
Reckless driving                                                  $405
Throwing or shooting at person/property                           $400
Transporting alcoholic beverages, low point beer and marijuana in $200
open containers
Vicious dog                                                       $225
 
      (2)   In all other respects, use and construction of the code remains in
full force and effect.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 7-1-2008; Ord. 2012-3, passed 6-5-2012; Res. 2025-2026-03,
passed 2-26-2026; Res. 2025-2026-04, passed 2-26-2026)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Official map designated
§ 11.01 OFFICIAL MAP DESIGNATED.
   The map of the town showing its territorial limits is hereby designated as
the official map of the town, and the corporate limits as shown thereon are
declared to be the true and correct corporate limits of the town, including all
annexations made to the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
      
32.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   TOWN COURT
      
34.   CIVIL DEFENSE
      
35.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
Board of Trustees
   
30.01   General powers
   
30.02   Election; terms
   
30.03   Meetings
   
30.04   Rules of order and procedure
   
30.05   Designation of Trustees to perform duties
Mayor
   
30.20   Election
   
30.21   Duties
   
30.22   Vacancy
**** BOARD OF TRUSTEES ****
§ 30.01 GENERAL POWERS.
   (A)   Statutory authority. Pursuant to the provisions of 11 O.S. § 12-101,
the town shall have all the powers, functions, rights, privileges, franchises,
and immunities granted, or which may be granted, to towns governed by the
statutory Town Board of Trustees form of government. These powers shall be
exercised as provided by law applicable to towns under the Board of Trustees
form of government or, if the manner is not prescribed, then in such manner as
the Board of Trustees may prescribe.
   (B)   Powers vested in Board. The powers, rights, and authorities of the
town, including the determination of matters of policy, shall be vested in and
exercised by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1)
§ 30.02 ELECTION; TERMS.
   (A)   Members; residents. The Board of Trustees shall consist of five
members who shall be nominated and elected at large without regard to their
place of residence within the corporate limits of the town. Trustees shall be
actual residents of the town for at least six months and registered voters of
the town.
   (B)   Terms.
      (1)   The resolution of the Board of Trustees calling for a general or
special election to fill the office of Trustee shall state the number of four-
year terms and the number of unexpired terms, if any, to be filled. The
resolution shall direct that the ballot shall state the number of offices of
Trustee to be filled for each term and that the voters shall vote for the
number to be filled.
      (2)   Candidates for the office of Trustee shall file for a specific
term, which shall be designated on the declaration of candidacy. Candidates
receiving the largest pluralities for each designated term shall be elected.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2) (Ord. 2002-7, passed 11-4-2002)
§ 30.03 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Time; quorum. The Board of Trustees shall meet regularly on the second
Tuesday of each month at 6:30 p.m. and at such other times as it may prescribe
by ordinance, resolution, or otherwise, at the Town Hall. Where the day for a
meeting falls upon a day which is a legal holiday in the state, the meeting
shall be held on the next succeeding day which is not a holiday. A majority of
all the members of the Board shall constitute a QUORUM to do business, but a
smaller number may adjourn from day to day.
   (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or any
three Trustees.
   (C)   Location. Every meeting of the Board of Trustees shall be held in the
Town Hall unless, in case of an emergency, the Mayor designates another place
in the town for the holding of a special meeting. Any adjourned meeting may be
held at any other place within the town designated by the Board.
   (D)   Open meetings. Meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be open to the
public, pursuant to 25 O.S. §§ 301 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3)
§ 30.04 RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Determination of rules; attendance.
      (1)   The Board may determine its own rules, and may compel the
attendance of absent members in the manner and under penalties as the Board may
prescribe.
      (2)   Whenever a Trustee is absent from more than one-half of all
meetings of the Board, regular and special, held within any period of four
consecutive months, he or she shall thereupon cease to hold office.
   (B)   Order of business. The order of business for each meeting of the Board
may be as posted on the agenda for the meeting.
   (C)   Rules of procedure. The following rules of procedure shall apply to
any regular or special meeting of the Board unless three Trustees agree to
waive the rule or rules.
      (1)   At the request of the Mayor or any Board member, all motions shall
be reduced to writing.
      (2)   A motion to reconsider any of the proceedings of the Board shall
not be entertained unless it be made by a member who previously voted in the
majority.
      (3)   No motion shall be debated or put until it be seconded and stated
by the Mayor. It is then, and not until then, in possession of the Board and
cannot be withdrawn but by leave of the Board.
      (4)   A motion to adjourn shall be in order at any time, except as
follows:
         (a)   When repeated without intervening business or discussion;
         (b)   When made as an interruption of a member while speaking;
         (c)   When the previous question has been ordered; or
         (d)   While a vote is being taken.
      (5)   A motion to adjourn is debatable only as to the time to which the
meeting is adjourned.
      (6)   When a question is under debate, no motion shall be received but
the following, for which several motions shall have precedence in the order
they stand arranged:
         (a)   To adjourn;
         (b)   To lay on the table;
         (c)   For the previous question;
         (d)   To postpone to a day certain;
         (e)   To commit;
         (f)   To amend; or
         (g)   To postpone indefinitely.
      (7)   When a proper motion is made, but information is wanted, the motion
is to postpone to a day certain.
      (8)   For matters claiming present attention for which it is desired to
reserve for more suitable occasion, the order is a motion to lay on the table.
The matter may then be called for at any time. If the proposition may need
further consideration at the hands of a committee, the motion is to refer to a
committee, but if it needs but a few and simple amendments, the Board shall
proceed to consider and amend at once.
      (9)   On an amendment’s being moved, a member who has spoken on the main
question may speak again to the amendment.
      (10)   The question is to be put first on the affirmative and then on the
negative side. After the affirmative part of the question has been put, any
member who has not spoken before to the question may arise and speak before the
negative be put.
      (11)   When a question has been moved and seconded and has been put by
the presiding officer in the affirmative and negative, it cannot be debated
unless under motion for reconsideration.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
§ 30.05 DESIGNATION OF TRUSTEES TO PERFORM DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may designate various ones of its members or a
committee of its members to have supervision of various personnel and
activities of the town, such as streets, water systems, and the like, and may
give each Trustee or committee designated an appropriate title.
   (B)   Each such Trustee or committee so designated shall be subordinate to
the Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5)
**** MAYOR ****
§ 30.20 ELECTION.
   The Board of Trustees shall elect from among its members a Mayor. The Mayor
shall be elected in each odd-numbered year at the first Board of Trustees
meeting held after Trustee terms begin, or as soon thereafter as practicable.
The Mayor shall serve until his or her successor has been elected and
qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 30.21 DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Board and shall certify to the
correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions passed by it. He or she
shall be recognized as head of the town government for all ceremonial purposes
and shall have such other powers, duties, and functions as may be prescribed by
law or ordinance. The Mayor shall have all the powers, rights, duties, and
responsibilities of a Trustee, including the right to vote on questions.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-2)
§ 30.22 VACANCY.
   During the absence, disability, or suspension of the Mayor, the Board shall
elect from among its members an Acting Mayor. When a vacancy occurs in the
office of the Mayor, the Board shall elect another Mayor from among its members
to serve for the duration of the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-3)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
Section
   
31.01   Town Clerk
   
31.02   Town Treasurer
   
31.03   Town Attorney
   
31.04   Health Officer
   
31.05   Other personnel
   
31.06   Compensation
   
31.07   Bonds
   
31.08   Oaths
   
31.09   Officers to continue
   
31.10   Appointment of personnel in emergencies
   
31.11   Federal Old Age and Survivor’s Insurance
§ 31.01 TOWN CLERK.
   (A)   Election; term. The Town Clerk is an elected official of the town,
elected for a four-year term.
   (B)   Duties. The Town Clerk shall:
      (1)   Keep the journal of the proceedings of the Board;
      (2)   Enroll in a book kept for that purpose all ordinances and
resolutions passed by the Board;
      (3)   Have custody of documents, records, and archives as may be provided
by law or ordinance and have custody of the Town Seal;
      (4)   Attest and affix the Seal of the town to documents as required by
law or ordinance; and
      (5)   Have such other powers, duties, and functions as may be prescribed
by law or ordinance or by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-1)
§ 31.02 TOWN TREASURER.
   (A)   Election; term. The Town Treasurer is an elected official of the town,
elected for a four-year term.
   (B)   Duties. The Town Treasurer shall:
      (1)   Maintain accounts and books to show where and from what source all
monies paid to him or her have been derived and to whom and when any monies
have been paid;
      (2)   Deposit daily funds received for the town in depositories as the
Board may designate; and
      (3)   Have such other powers, duties, and functions as may be prescribed
by law or ordinance.
   (C)   Inspection of accounts. The Treasurer’s books and accounts shall at
all times be subject to examination by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-2)
§ 31.03 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Town Attorney or may secure the
services of an attorney or attorneys on a contractual basis when needed.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Attorney, when and if appointed, shall be the legal
advisor of the Board, all officers, departments, and agencies of the town
government in matters relating to their official powers and duties.
      (2)   He or she shall represent the town in proceedings in the courts. He
or she shall perform all services incident to his or her position which may be
required by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-3)
§ 31.04 HEALTH OFFICER.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Town Health Officer.
   (B)   The County Health Officer or any qualified personnel of the State
Department of Health may perform the duties and functions of a Town Health
Officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-4)
§ 31.05 OTHER PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Appointment and removal. The Board of Trustees may appoint such other
officers and employees as it deems desirable and may determine their
compensation by motion or resolution, and may demote, suspend, lay off, or
remove all such personnel in compliance with due process and other requirements
of law.
   (B)   Appeal. An employee or officer who, after a probationary period as set
by the Town Board, is laid off, suspended without pay for more than ten days,
demoted, or removed, may appeal in writing to the Town Board. The appeal must
be filed with the Town Treasurer for transmittal to the Board within ten days
after receipt of the notice of the layoff, suspension, demotion, or removal. As
soon as practicable thereafter, the Board shall conduct a hearing on the
appeal, or give an adequate opportunity therefor, and shall report in writing
its findings and recommendations and make its final decision in writing
regarding the appellant’s layoff, suspension, demotion, or removal. If the
Board finds that the layoff, suspension, demotion, or removal was made for any
reason other than the good of the service, it shall veto the layoff,
suspension, demotion, or removal and order the reinstatement of the employee or
officer. Any proceedings of the Board shall be subject to open meeting laws and
applicable exceptions provided for executive sessions. Employees or officers on
probationary status may be laid off, suspended without pay, demoted, or removed
at any time without the written statement, hearings, and procedures required in
this section.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-5)
§ 31.06 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Certain officers. Since the law requires that the compensation of
certain officers shall be set by ordinance, the compensation of each of the
following shall be respectively indicated below:
      (1)   Mayor: $550 per year paid semiannually, effective after election
April 2011 and appointed by Trustees;
      (2)   Each Trustee: $500 per year paid semiannually, effective after
election April 2011 and 2013 and taking office;
      (3)   Town Clerk: $50 per month, effective May 2027;
      (4)   Town Treasurer: $50 per month, effective May 2027; and
      (5)   Fire Chief: $800 per year paid semiannually, effective December
2009.
   (B)   Employees.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees shall have the power, by motion or
resolution, to determine the compensation of other officers and employees of
the town.
      (2)   Except as the law provides otherwise, the Board of Trustees may
determine or regulate the number and classes of officers and employees.
   (C)   Salaries not to be changed.
      (1)   In no case shall the salary or emoluments of any town officer
elected or appointed for a definite term be changed after his or her election
or appointment or during his or her term of office unless by operation of an
ordinance passed prior to such election or appointment, such being prohibited
by the State Constitution, Article 23, § 10.
      (2)   This provision shall not apply to officers chosen for indefinite
terms nor to employees.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-6) (Ord. 162, passed 1-5-2010; Ord. 2025-11-04, passed 11-4-
2025; Ord. 2025-11-05, passed 11-4-2025)
§ 31.07 BONDS.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Treasurer and the Town Clerk, and any other officers
and employees which the Town Board may designate by ordinance or otherwise,
shall give bond for the faithful performance of duties in such amount and form
as the Board shall prescribe.
      (2)   The town shall pay the premiums on such bonds.
   (B)   The town may require the officer to secure the bond within ten days
after his or her election or appointment.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-7)
§ 31.08 OATHS.
   (A)   All officers of the town, but not employees, are required to take the
oath or affirmation of office prescribed by the State Constitution before they
enter upon their duties.
   (B)   Both officers and employees are currently required to take and
subscribe to the loyalty oath prescribed by state law.
   (C)   The form of the oath is as follows.
 
   Oath of Office
State of Oklahoma, Lincoln County, ss:
I, __________ do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support, obey, and
defend the Constitution of the United States, and the Constitution of the
State of Oklahoma, and that I will not, knowingly, receive, directly or
indirectly, any money or other valuable thing, for the performance or
nonperformance of any act or duty pertaining to my office, other than the
compensation allowed by law; I further swear (or affirm) that I will
faithfully discharge my duties as ___________ to the best of my ability.
 ______________________________
Subscribed and sworn to before me this _______ day of _______, 20______.
 ____________________________
 Notary Public
My commission expires: ____________________________
 
(Prior Code, § 1-8-8)
§ 31.09 OFFICERS TO CONTINUE.
   Every officer who is elected or appointed for a definite term shall continue
to serve thereafter until his or her successor is elected or appointed and
qualifies, unless his or her services are sooner terminated by resignation,
disqualification, removal, death, abolition of the office, or other legal
manner.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-9)
§ 31.10 APPOINTMENT OF PERSONNEL IN EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   The Mayor may, in an emergency situation, appoint such other officers
and employees as he or she may deem necessary to protect the health, safety,
and welfare of the citizens of the town during the existence of the emergency,
subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees, as soon as a special meeting
or regular meeting can reasonably be called or held therefor.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may determine the compensation of such emergency
employees by motion or resolution and may direct the demotion, layoff, or
removal of such personnel at the conclusion of such emergency.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, the term EMERGENCY shall be defined
to mean an unexpected or unforeseen contingency or catastrophic event affecting
the health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-10)
§ 31.11 FEDERAL OLD AGE AND SURVIVORS’ INSURANCE.
   (A)   Declaration of policy. It is hereby declared to be the policy and
purpose of the town to extend, at the earliest date, to the eligible employees
and officials of the town the benefits of the system of Federal Old Age and
Survivors’ Insurance as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act and all
amendments thereto, and 51 O.S. §§ 121 et seq. In pursuance of this policy, the
officers and employees of the town shall take such action as may be required by
applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-1)
   (B)   Execution of agreement. The Mayor is authorized and directed to
execute all necessary agreements and amendments with the State Department of
Human Services to accomplish the provisions of division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-2)
   (C)   Withholdings. Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and
officials for the purposes provided in division (A) above are hereby authorized
to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable
state and federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the state or
federal agency designated by the laws and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-3)
   (D)   Contributions. Employer contributions shall be paid from amounts
appropriated for these purposes from available funds to the designated state or
federal agency in accordance with applicable state or federal laws or
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-4)
   (E)   Records and reports. The Town Clerk shall keep such records and submit
such reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-5)
   (F)   Exclusions. Excluded from this section authorizing the extension of
Social Security benefits to town officers and employees are the following:
      (1)   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee, or official now covered or authorized to be covered by any other
ordinance creating any retirement system for any employee or official of the
town; and
      (2)   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee, or official for which compensation is on a fee basis, or any
position, employee, or official not authorized to be covered by applicable
state or federal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-6)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Fire Department
   
32.01   Fire Department
   
32.02   Fire Chief
   
32.03   Assistant Chief
   
32.04   Company officers
   
32.05   Secretary-Treasurer
   
32.06   New members
   
32.07   Bylaws
   
32.08   Rules and regulations
   
32.09   Use of equipment; inventory and repair
   
32.10   Contracts outside town limits
   
32.11   Contract terms and fees
   
32.12   Calls outside town limits
   
32.13   Agent of state
   
31.14   Firefighters’ Pension and Retirement Fund
Police Department
   
32.25   Department created; Chief
   
32.26   Duties
   
32.27   Police officers
   
32.28   Assistant Chief of Police
**** FIRE DEPARTMENT ****
§ 32.01 FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Created; Chief. There shall be a Fire Department, the head of which
shall be the Chief of the Fire Department. The Chief shall be appointed in the
manner provided by law applicable to the town for the appointment of town
officers.
   (B)   Volunteer firefighters.
      (1)   The term VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER means one who is enrolled as a
member of the Fire Department of the town and who serves in that capacity
without receiving a regular salary. The size of the Volunteer Fire Department
of the town shall be composed of not less than 12 nor more than 25 members.
      (2)   The volunteer members of the Fire Department of the town shall
abide by and be subject to the rules and regulations of this subchapter.
   (C)   Duties of Department. It is the duty of the Fire Department, among
others, to extinguish fires, to rescue persons endangered by fire, to
resuscitate and to administer first aid to persons injured in or about burning
structures, or elsewhere in case of an emergency, to promote fire prevention,
and, unless otherwise provided, to enforce all ordinances relating to fires,
fire prevention, and safety of persons from fire in public and private
buildings.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1) (Ord. 13-202, passed 5-3-2005; Ord. 121, passed 4-9-2009)
§ 32.02 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief shall be at the head of the Department, subject to the laws
of the state, ordinances of the town, and the rules and regulations herein
adopted.
   (B)   The Chief shall be appointed by the Town Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The Chief shall be held responsible for the general condition and
efficient operation of the Department, the training of members, and the
performance of all other duties imposed upon him or her.
   (D)   The Chief may inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the
Department the fire hydrants and other sources of water supply at least twice
each year.
   (E)   The Chief shall maintain a library or file or publications on fire
prevention and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage
of all members.
   (F)   The Chief shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct the
officers and members in the performance of their duties.
   (G)   The Chief shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire
hazards in the community and on the activities of the Department.
   (H)   The Chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to
determine its cause, and in the case of suspicion of incendiarism, shall notify
proper authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence for future use
in the case.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2) (Ord. 121, passed 4-9-2009)
§ 32.03 ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   (A)   In the absence of the Chief, the Assistant Chief on duty shall command
the Department and be held responsible therefor in all respects with the full
powers and responsibilities of the Chief.
   (B)   The Assistant Chief shall be appointed by the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3) (Ord. 121, passed 4-9-2009)
§ 32.04 COMPANY OFFICERS.
   The company officers shall be appointed by the Fire Chief based upon their
ability to meet the following requirements:
   (A)   Their knowledge of firefighting;
   (B)   Their ability to lead people; and
   (C)   Their knowledge of firefighting equipment.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-4) (Ord. 121, passed 4-9-2009)
§ 32.05 SECRETARY-TREASURER.
   (A)   One member elected by the Fire Department shall be Secretary-
Treasurer.
   (B)   His or her duties shall consist of the following:
      (1)   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
      (2)   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
      (3)   Collecting any money due the Department by the members.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-5) (Ord. 121, passed 4-9-2009)
§ 32.06 NEW MEMBERS.
   (A)   All new members of the Department shall be appointed by the Chief and
shall be on probation for one year after their appointment.
   (B)   New members, upon completion of their probation period, must be
approved by the majority of the Fire Department and the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-6) (Ord. 121, passed 4-9-2009)
§ 32.07 BYLAWS.
   The bylaws of the Department shall include the following.
   (A)   All volunteer firefighters are required, when notified, to respond to
alarms of fire and other emergencies.
   (B)   They are required to be present at all regular meetings, called
meetings, and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters.
   (C)   There shall be at least one regular business meeting each month.
   (D)   Any volunteer firefighter having two unexcused absences in succession
or three unexcused absences in a period of three months will be dropped from
the Fire Department rolls.
   (E)   Volunteer firefighters leaving town for over two days will be required
to notify the Chief.
   (F)   (1)   New members, within one year of service, are required to have
completed and be licensed for CPR, medical responder or higher, and emergency
vehicle operation.
      (2)   Additional training will be required to be completed and not
limited to: hazmat awareness, vehicle extrication, fighter 1, apparatus,
wildland firefighting, NIMS, self-contained breathing apparatus, confined space
entry, and water rescue. All firefighters are required to attend all training
classes set by the training officer or Chief. Any firefighter unable to attend
classes set by the Chief will have to be completed within that calendar year
and will have to be set on his or her own. All firefighters will be required to
attend all classes in order to maintain licenses and certification throughout
their tenure with the Fire Department.
   (G)   Any volunteer member of the Fire Department shall be dropped from the
rolls for the following offenses:
      (1)   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
      (2)   Any act of insubordination;
      (3)   Neglect of Fire Department;
      (4)   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the Fire
Department;
      (5)   Conviction of a felony; and
      (6)   Any firefighter in violation of anything in division (F) above will
be dismissed by the Chief and approval of the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-7) (Ord. 121, passed 4-9-2009)
§ 32.08 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may adopt and change
regulations relating to the Fire Department, its organization, operation, and
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-8)
§ 32.09 USE OF EQUIPMENT; INVENTORY AND REPAIR.
   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private purpose,
nor shall any person willfully and without proper authority take away or
conceal any article used in any way by the Department. No person shall enter
any place where fire apparatus is housed or handle any apparatus or equipment
belonging to the Department unless accompanied by, or having the special
permission of, an officer or authorized member of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.10 CONTRACTS OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS.
   The town is hereby authorized and empowered to enter into contracts or
agreements with individuals, firms, private corporations or associations, or
political subdivisions of the state for fire protection outside the corporate
limits of the town, and to contract to provide fire protection jointly with
other organizations and municipal subdivisions of the state.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-10)
§ 32.11 CONTRACT TERMS AND FEES.
   Any contract entered into by the town with an individual owner, firm,
private corporation, or association for outside aid, or mutual aid for fire
protection, shall provide for the payment by the owner, firm, private
corporation or association, or political subdivision to the town for such fire
apparatus and personnel at the rate per call as set by the Town Board. All
monies received from the calls shall go into the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-11)
§ 32.12 CALLS OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)   Authority to respond. The Fire Department of the town is hereby
authorized and directed to answer all outside calls outside the corporate town
limits in the discretion of the Fire Chief. The Fire Department may not answer
such outside calls if, in the opinion of the Fire Chief, it is inexpedient to
do so on account of another fire in the town, broken apparatus, impassable or
dangerous highways, or other physical conditions.
   (B)   Calls considered regular duty. All volunteer firefighters of the Fire
Department of the town attending and serving at fires or doing fire prevention
work outside the corporate limits of the town, as herein provided, shall be
considered as serving in their regular line of duty as fully as if they were
serving within the corporate limits of the town. The firefighters shall be
entitled to all the benefits of any Firefighters’ Pension and Relief Fund in
the same manner as if the firefighting or fire prevention work were being done
within the corporate limits of the town. Compensation of firefighters shall be
as provided by the Board of Trustees by ordinance or resolution.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-12)
§ 32.13 AGENT OF STATE.
   The Town Fire Department answering any fire alarm, or call, or performing
any fire prevention services outside the corporate limits of the town shall be
considered as an agent of the state, and acting solely and alone in a
governmental capacity, and the town shall not be liable in damages for any act
of commission, omission, or negligence while answering or returning from any
fire, or reported fire, or doing any fire prevention work under and by virtue
of §
32.10 through this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-13)
§ 32.14 FIREFIGHTERS’ PENSION AND RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   Contributions to Fund. The Clerk shall deduct from the salaries or
wages of each paid member of the Fire Department the appropriate amounts of
money as established and required by state law as contribution to the
Firefighters’ Pension Fund. However, if the members of the Fire Department, by
a majority vote of its paid members, vote to increase the amount of the
deductions, the amounts authorized by this division (A) shall be increased to
reflect the amounts approved by the majority vote. Any amounts deducted from
the salary or wages of a Fire Department member shall be made at the time of
each payroll. The deductions shall be set forth in the payroll so that each
member may be able to ascertain the exact amount which he or she is
contributing.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-1)
   (B)   Deposit of funds. The Town Treasurer shall deposit monthly with the
State Firefighters’ Pension and Retirement Board the amounts of money as
established and required by state law for each paid member of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-2)
   (C)   Volunteer members. For each volunteer member of the Fire Department,
the Town Treasurer shall deposit yearly with the State Firefighters’ Pension
and Retirement Board the amounts of money as established and required by state
law. These amounts may be revised according to actuarial studies and amounts as
set by the State Firefighters’ Pension and Retirement Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-3)
**** POLICE DEPARTMENT ****
§ 32.25 DEPARTMENT CREATED; CHIEF.
   There shall be a Police Department, the head of which is the Chief of
Police, or Police Chief, appointed by the Town Board of Trustees and removable
by the Board. The Chief of Police is an officer of the town, and has
supervision and control of the Police Department. All police officers are
officers of the town and shall meet requirements as are set by the state for
police officers.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1)
§ 32.26 DUTIES.
   It is the duty of the Police Department to:
   (A)   Apprehend and arrest on view or on warrant and bring to justice all
violators of the ordinances of the town;
   (B)   To suppress all riots, affrays, and unlawful assemblies which may come
to their knowledge, and generally to keep the peace;
   (C)   To serve all warrants, writs, executions, and other processes properly
directed and delivered to them;
   (D)   To apprehend and arrest persons violating federal or state law as
provided by law, and to turn them over to proper authorities; and
   (E)   In all respects to perform all duties pertaining to the office of
police officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2)
§ 32.27 POLICE OFFICERS.
   Police officers shall be appointed subject to approval of the Town Board of
Trustees. Police officers shall perform such duties as shall be required of
them by the Chief of Police, town ordinances, federal, state, and county
regulations and any other actions required in the maintenance of good order and
public peace.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3)
§ 32.28 ASSISTANT CHIEF OF POLICE.
   There shall be an Assistant Police Chief, appointed by the Town Board of
Trustees and removable by the Board. The Assistant Police Chief shall perform
such duties as shall be required by them by the Chief of Police, town
ordinances, federal, state, and county regulations and any other actions
required in the maintenance of good order and public peace.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-4) (Ord. 2007-2, passed 12-4-2007)
CHAPTER 33: TOWN COURT
Section
   
33.01   Purpose; conflict
   
33.02   Definitions
   
33.03   Jurisdiction
   
33.04   Judge
   
33.05   Alternate Judge
   
33.06   Acting Judge
   
33.07   Judges; provisions of office
   
33.08   Principal officer
   
33.09   Clerk of the Court
   
33.10   Prosecuting Officer
   
33.11   Rules of conduct
   
33.12   Enforcement
   
33.13   Prosecutions
   
33.14   Traffic violations
   
33.15   Traffic bail bond procedures
   
33.16   Traffic Violations Bureau
   
33.17   Summons
   
33.18   Warrant of arrest
   
33.19   Bond procedures
   
33.20   Arraignment
   
33.21   Trial and judgment
   
33.22   Witness fees
   
33.23   Suspension of sentence
   
33.24   Imprisonment
   
33.25   Fines and costs
   
33.26   Penalty assessment
§ 33.01 PURPOSE; CONFLICT.
   This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the Municipal
Court of the town, as put into operation by resolution duly passed and filed in
accordance with law, as authorized by 11 O.S. §§ 27-101 and 27-102. To the
extent of conflict between any provisions of this chapter and the provisions of
any other ordinance of the town, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-1)
§ 33.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The peace officer in charge of the police force of the
town.
   CLERK. The Clerk of the town, including any deputy or member of the office
staff of the Clerk while performing duties of the Clerk’s office.
   COURT. The Municipal Court of the town.
   JUDGE. The Judge of the Municipal Court, including any Acting Judge or
Alternate Judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of this state and this
chapter.
   THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT. The District Court Judicial District of the state
wherein the government of the town is situated.
   TOWN. The Town of Davenport, Oklahoma.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-2)
§ 33.03 JURISDICTION.
   The Court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of the town is charged,
including any such prosecutions transferred to the Court in accordance with
applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-3)
§ 33.04 JUDGE.
   (A)   Qualifications. There shall be one Judge of the Court. A Judge may be
an attorney licensed to practice law in the state or a resident of the town, of
the age of 21 years or older, possessed of good moral character. A Judge who is
a licensed attorney may engage in the practice of law in other courts, but he
or she shall not accept employment inconsistent with his or her duties as
Judge, or arising out of facts which give rise to or are connected with cases
within the jurisdiction of the Court, pending therein, or which might become
the subject of proceedings therein. He or she must be a resident of this county
or an adjacent county or maintain a law office therein. He or she may serve as
judge of other municipal courts, if such service may be accomplished
consistently with his or her duties as Judge of this Court, with the consent of
the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Term. The official term of the Judge shall be two years expiring each
odd-numbered year. Each Judge, unless sooner removed for proper cause, shall
serve until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-4)
§ 33.05 ALTERNATE JUDGE.
   (A)   There shall be appointed for each Judge of the Court an Alternate
Judge possessed of the same qualifications required of the Judge in §
33.04(A). His or her appointment shall be for the same term and made in the
same manner as the Judge.
   (B)   He or she shall sit as Acting Judge of the Court in any case if the
Judge is:
      (1)   Absent from the Court;
      (2)   Unable to act as Judge; or
      (3)   Disqualified from acting as Judge in the case.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-5)
§ 33.06 ACTING JUDGE.
   If at any time there is no Judge or Alternate Judge, duly appointed and
qualified, available to sit as Judge, the Mayor shall appoint some person,
possessing the qualifications required by §
33.04(A) for the Judge, who shall preside as Acting Judge over the Court in the
disposition of pending matters until such time as a Judge or Alternate Judge
shall be available.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-6)
§ 33.07 JUDGES; PROVISIONS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Appointment. Judges and Alternate Judges shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the consent of the Board of Trustees. A proposed appointment shall
be submitted in writing to the Board of Trustees at the next to the last
regularly scheduled meeting prior to the day upon which the appointment is to
take effect, and shall be acted upon at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
The Board of Trustees may decide upon the proposed appointment by a majority
vote of a quorum present and acting. Failure of decision upon a proposed
appointment shall not prevent action thereon at a later regularly scheduled
meeting of the Board of Trustees unless the Mayor, in writing, withdraws the
proposed appointment.
   (B)   Compensation.
      (1)   Judge. A Judge, other than an Alternate Judge or an Acting Judge,
shall receive a salary as set by the Board of Trustees by motion or resolution,
paid in the same manner as the salaries of other town officials.
      (2)   Alternate or Acting Judge. An Alternate Judge or an Acting Judge
shall be paid an amount as set by motion or resolution of the Board of
Trustees. However, payments to an Acting or Alternate Judge shall not exceed
the salary set for a Judge in whose stead he or she sits.
   (C)   Removal.
      (1)   Grounds for removal; petition. Judges shall be subject to removal
from office by the Board of Trustees for the causes prescribed by the
Constitution and laws of the state for the removal of public officers.
Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by the filing of a verified written
petition setting forth facts sufficient to constitute one or more legal grounds
for removal. Petitions may be signed and filed by:
         (a)   The Mayor; or
         (b)   Twenty-five or more qualified electors of the town. Verification
of the number or qualifications of electors shall be executed by one or more of
the petitioners.
      (2)   Hearing; notice. The Board of Trustees shall set a date for hearing
the matter and shall cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the
petition, to be served personally upon the Judge at least ten days before the
hearing. At the hearing, the Judge shall be entitled to:
         (a)   Representation by counsel;
         (b)   Present testimony and to cross-examine the witnesses against him
or her; and
         (c)   Have all evidence against him or her presented in open hearing.
      (3)   Procedures. So far as they can be applicable, the provisions of the
State Administrative Procedures Act, being 75 O.S. §§ 250 et seq., governing
individual proceedings shall govern removal proceedings hereunder. Judgment of
removal shall be entered only upon individual votes, by a majority of all
members of the Board of Trustees, in favor of such removal.
   (D)   Vacancy.
      (1)   A vacancy in the office of Judge shall occur if the incumbent:
         (a)   Dies;
         (b)   Resigns;
         (c)   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
         (d)   Is removed, and the removal proceedings have been affirmed
finally in judicial proceedings or are no longer subject to judicial review.
      (2)   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of Judge, the Mayor
shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term in the same manner as
an original appointment is made.
   (E)   Disqualification. In prosecutions before the Court, no change of venue
shall be allowed, but the Judge before whom the case is pending may certify his
or her disqualification or he or she may be disqualified from sitting under the
terms, conditions, and procedures provided by law for courts of record. If a
Judge is disqualified, the matter shall be heard by an Alternate or Acting
Judge appointed as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-7)
§ 33.08 PRINCIPAL OFFICER.
   All writs or processes of the Court shall be directed, in his or her
official title, to the Chief of Police in the town, who shall be the principal
office of the Court.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-8)
§ 33.09 CLERK OF THE COURT.
   (A)   Duties.
      (1)   The Clerk, or a deputy designated by him or her, shall be the Clerk
of the Court. He or she shall assist the Judge in recording the proceedings of
the Court and in preparing writs, processes, and other papers. He or she shall
administer oaths required in proceedings before the Court. He or she shall
enter all pleadings, processes, and proceedings in the dockets of the Court. He
or she shall perform such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of
the Court as the Judge shall direct.
      (2)   He or she shall receive and receipt for forfeitures, fines,
deposits, and sums of money payable to the Court. He or she shall pay to the
Town Treasurer all money so received by him or her, except such special
deposits or fees as shall be received to be disbursed by him or her for special
purposes. All money paid to the Treasurer shall be placed in the General Fund
of the town, or in such other fund as the Board of Trustees may direct, and it
shall be used in the operation of the town government in accordance with
budgetary arrangements governing the fund in which it is placed. The Court
Clerk shall make duplicate receipts for the fees, fines, and forfeitures
collected by him or her, one copy of which shall be retained by the Town
Treasurer together with a detailed statement of all costs, the style of the
case in which they were paid, and the name of the party paying the same.
   (B)   Bond. The Clerk of the Court shall give bond in the form provided in
11 O.S. § 27-111. When executed, said bond shall be submitted to the Board of
Trustees for approval. When approved, it shall be filed with the Town Clerk and
retained in the municipal archives.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-9)
§ 33.10 PROSECUTING OFFICER.
   The Attorney for the town, or his or her duly designated assistant, may be
the Prosecuting Officer of the Court. He or she shall also prosecute all
alleged violations of the ordinances of the town. He or she shall be
authorized, in his or her discretion, to prosecute and resist appeal,
proceedings in error, and review from this Court to any Court of the state, and
to represent the town in all proceedings arising out of matters in this Court.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-10)
§ 33.11 RULES OF CONDUCT.
   The Judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the laws of the state and
with the ordinances of the town, for the proper conduct of the business of the
Court.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-11)
§ 33.12 ENFORCEMENT.
   Obedience to the orders, rules, and judgments made by the Judge or by the
Court may be enforced by the Judge, who may fine or imprison for contempt
committed as to him or her while holding court, or committed against process
issued by him or her, in the same manner and to the same extent as the District
Courts of this state.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-12)
§ 33.13 PROSECUTIONS.
   All prosecutions for violations of ordinances of the town shall be styled
“The Town of Davenport vs. (naming defendant or defendants).” Except as
provided hereinafter, prosecution shall be initiated by the filing of a written
complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making complaint, and setting
forth concisely the offense charged and approved for filing by the Town
Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-13)
§ 33.14 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Citation. If a police officer observes facts which he or she believes
constitute a violation of the traffic ordinances of the town, in lieu of
arresting such a person, he or she may release the person on personal
recognizance in accordance with §
33.15, or take his or her name, address, operator’s license number, and
registered license number of the motor vehicle involved and any other pertinent
and necessary information and may issue him or her in writing, in form
prescribed by the Mayor or his or her duly designated delegate, a traffic
citation embracing the above information, and also stating the traffic
violation alleged to have occurred, and notifying him or her to answer to the
charge against him or her at a time not later than the date specified in the
citation. The officer, upon receiving the written promise of the alleged
violator, endorsed on the citation to answer as specified, may then release the
person from custody. If the person to whom a citation is issued fails to answer
as prescribed in the citation, complaint shall be filed and the case shall be
prosecuted as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Procedure on arrest. If the alleged traffic violation is committed by
a nonresident or resident of the town, the police office may:
      (1)   Release the person after obtaining sufficient information as set
out in division (A) above pending his or her appearance on a day certain in
court, as specified in the citation after the person:
         (a)   Posts cash bail;
         (b)   Deposits with the arresting officer a guaranteed arrest bond
certificate; or
         (c)   Deposits with the arresting officer a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle in exchange for a receipt therefor issued by the arresting
officer as provided in §
33.15.
      (2)   Take the person in custody and demand that bond for the offense
charged be posted according to the provisions of this chapter; or
      (3)   Take the person into custody under arrest. The arrested person
either shall be taken immediately before the Judge for further proceedings
according to law or shall have bail fixed for his or her release in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. Upon providing bail as fixed, and upon
giving his or her written promise to appear upon a day certain, as provided in
division (A) above, the person shall be released from custody.
   (C)   Unattended vehicle. If the alleged offense be a violation of an
ordinance restricting or regulating the parking of vehicles, including any
regulations issued under such an ordinance, and the operator be not present,
the police officer shall place on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to
come to the notice of the operator, a citation conforming substantially to that
prescribed in division (A) or (B) above, with such variation as the
circumstances require. The operator of this vehicle shall be under the same
obligation to respond to the citation as if it has been issued to him or her
personally under division (A) or (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-14)
§ 33.15 TRAFFIC BAIL BOND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Release upon personal recognizance. In addition to other provisions of
law for posting bail, any person, whether a resident of this state or a
nonresident, who is arrested by a law enforcement officer solely for a
misdemeanor violation of a state traffic law or municipal traffic ordinance
shall be released by the arresting officer upon personal recognizance if:
      (1)   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle by this state, another state jurisdiction within the United
States, or any party jurisdiction of the Nonresident Violator Compact;
      (2)   The arrested person is satisfied as to the identity of the arrested
person;
      (3)   The arrested person signs a written promise to appear as provided
for on the citation; and
      (4)   The violation does not constitute:
         (a)    A felony;
         (b)   Negligent homicide;
         (c)   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances;
         (d)   Eluding or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer;
         (e)   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver’s license, or while the license is under suspension, revocation, denial,
or cancellation;
         (f)   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant;
         (g)   A traffic violation coupled with any offense stated in divisions
(A)(4)(a) through (A)(4)(f) above;
         (h)   An overweight violation, or the violation of a special permit
exceeding the authorized permit weight; or
         (i)   A violation relating to the transportation of hazardous
materials.
   (B)   Procedure for release.
      (1)   If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal
recognizance as provided for in division (A) above, then the arresting officer
shall:
         (a)   Designate the traffic charge;
         (b)   Record information from the arrested person’s driver’s license
on the citation form, including the name, address, date of birth, personal
description, type of driver’s license, driver’s license number, issuing state,
and expiration date;
         (c)   Record the motor vehicle make, model, and tag information;
         (d)   Record the arraignment date and time on the citation; and
         (e)   Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to appear
as provided for in the citation.
      (2)   The arresting officer shall then release the person upon personal
recognizance based upon the signed promise to appear. The citation shall
contain a written notice to the arrested person that release upon personal
recognizance based upon a signed written promise to appear for arraignment is
conditional and that failure to timely appear for arraignment shall result in
the suspension of the arrested person’s driver’s license in this state, or in
the nonresident’s home state pursuant to the Nonresident Violator Compact.
   (C)   Other procedures. Procedures for arraignment, continuances, and
scheduling, timely appearances, pleas of guilty or nolo contendere, posting
bail, payment of fines and costs, issuance of arrest warrants, and requests for
suspension of driver’s license shall be as required in state law, 22 O.S. §§
1115.1 through 1115.5.
   (D)   Guilty plea. A defendant released upon personal recognizance may elect
to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the violation charged at any
time before he or she is required to appear for arraignment by indicating such
plea on the copy of the citation furnished to him or her or on a legible copy
thereof, together with the date of the plea and his or her signature. The
defendant shall be responsible for assuring full payment of the fine and costs
to the Court Clerk. The defendant shall not use currency for payment by mail.
If the defendant has entered a plea of guilty or nolo contendere as provided
for in this division (D), such plea shall be accepted by the Court and the
amount of the fine and costs shall be as prescribed by ordinance for the
violation charged or as prescribed by the Court.
   (E)   Warrant for arrest.
      (1)   Notification by Clerk. If, pursuant to the provisions of division
(D) above, the defendant does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or
nolo contendere and fails to timely appear for arraignment, the Court may issue
a warrant for the arrest of the defendant, and the Municipal or District Court
Clerk, within 120 calendar days from the date the citation was issued by the
arresting officer, shall notify the State Department of Public Safety that:
         (a)   The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after signing a written promise to appear for arraignment
as provided for in the citation;
         (b)   The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without good
cause shown;
         (c)   The defendant has not posted bail, paid a fine, or made any
other arrangement with the Court to satisfy the citation; and
         (d)   The citation has not been satisfied as provided by law.
      (2)   Request for suspension of license. The Court Clerk shall request
the State Department of Public Safety to either suspend the defendant’s
driver’s license to operate a motor vehicle in this state, or notify the
defendant’s home state and request suspension of the defendant’s driver’s
license in accordance with the provisions of the Nonresident Violator Compact.
Such notice and request shall be on a form approved or furnished by the State
Department of Public Safety. The Court Clerk shall not process the notification
and request provided for in this division (E) if, with respect to such charges:
         (a)   The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was
jailed, or otherwise settled the case;
         (b)   The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance upon a
signed written promise to appear as provided for in this section or, if
released, was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for
arraignment;
         (c)   The violation relates to parking or standing, an overweight
violation, an overweight permit, or the transportation of hazardous materials;
or
         (d)   A period of 120 calendar days or more has elapsed from the date
the citation was issued by the arresting officer.
   (F)   Record; proof of resolution. The Court Clerk shall maintain a record
of each request for driver’s license suspension submitted to the State
Department of Public Safety pursuant to the provisions of this section. When
the Court or Court Clerk receives appropriate bail or payment of the fines and
costs, settles the citation, makes other arrangements with the defendant, or
otherwise closes the case, the Court Clerk shall furnish proof thereof to such
defendant, if the defendant personally appears, or shall mail such proof by
first class mail, postage prepaid, to the defendant at the address noted on the
citation or at such other address as is furnished by the defendant.
Additionally, the Court or Court Clerk shall notify the home jurisdiction of
the defendant as listed on the citation, if such jurisdiction is a member of
the Nonresident Violator Compact, and shall in all other cases notify the State
Department of Public Safety of the resolution of the case. The form of proof
and the procedures for notification shall be approved by the State Department
of Public Safety. Provided however, the Court or Court Clerk’s failure to
furnish such proof or notice in the manner provided for in this division (F)
shall in no event create any civil liability upon the Court, the Court Clerk,
the state or any political subdivision thereof, or any state department or
agency or any employee thereof, but duplicate proof shall be furnished to the
person entitled thereto upon request.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-15)
§ 33.16 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   Bureau established. There may be established a Traffic Violations
Bureau for the town. The Judge may establish rules, consistent with the laws of
the state and with the ordinances of the town, for the Traffic Violations
Bureau.
   (B)   Composition. The Traffic Violations Bureau shall be staffed by court
personnel and be physically separate and apart from the Police Department.
   (C)   Fines. The Traffic Violations Bureau shall accept fines which may be
paid in lieu of a court appearance for such traffic offenses as may be
designated by the Judge under the Court’s rules. The schedule of fines shall be
adopted by the Board of Trustees from time to time by motion or resolution. A
copy shall be kept in the Clerk’s office.
   (D)   Offenses requiring court appearances. In no event shall payment of a
fine without court appearance be accepted in the Traffic Violations Bureau for
the following offenses:
      (1)   A second or subsequent offense of the same violation;
      (2)   Driving under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs or
actual physical control of a vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating
liquor or drugs;
      (3)   Leaving the scene of an accident;
      (4)   Driving while license is suspended or revoked;
      (5)   Reckless driving;
      (6)   Careless driving; or
      (7)   Any charge made because of a motor vehicle accident in which
personal injury or death occurred.
   (E)   Determination final. Payment of any fine to the Traffic Violations
Bureau shall be deemed a final determination of the cause against the
defendant. In no event shall any such payment be introduced as evidence in any
civil case arising out of the offense charged.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-16)
§ 33.17 SUMMONS.
   (A)   Issuance. Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of any
ordinance, the Judge, unless he or she determines to issue a warrant of arrest,
or unless the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been
arrested and has given bond for appearances, shall issue a summons, naming the
person charged, specifying his or her address or place of residence, if known,
stating the offense with which he or she is charged and giving him or her
notice to answer the charge in the Court on a certain day as specified after
the summons is served upon him or her, and including such other pertinent
information as may be necessary.
   (B)   Service. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the
defendant personally. If he or she fails to appear and to answer the summons
within the prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his or her arrest,
as provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-17)
§ 33.18 WARRANT OF ARREST.
   (A)   Form of warrant. Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of the
town, upon the filing of a complaint approved by the endorsement of the Town
Attorney or by the Judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest, in
substantially the following form:
 
The Town of Davenport to the Marshal of the Municipal Court of Davenport,
Oklahoma.
Complaint upon oath having this day been made by (naming complainant) that the
offense (naming the offense in particular but general terms) has been
committed and accusing (name of defendant) thereof, you are commanded therefor
forthwith to arrest the above named defendant and bring the above named (name
of defendant) before me, at the municipal courtroom.
Witness my hand this ________ day of ______, 20_____.
 ____________________________
 Judge of the Municipal Court
 Davenport, Oklahoma
 
   (B)   Execution of warrant. It is the duty of a duly constituted member of
the police force of the town, or through any other person lawfully authorized
so to act, to execute a warrant as promptly as possible.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-18)
§ 33.19 BOND PROCEDURES.
   Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to citation or
summons, or at any time before trial, before or after arraignment, the
defendant shall be eligible to be released upon posting a bond of $200 plus
applicable court costs for his or her appearance and upon conditions fixed by
this chapter or the Judge, who shall prescribe appropriate rules of court for
the receipt of bond.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-19)
§ 33.20 ARRAIGNMENT.
   Upon making his or her appearance before the court, the defendant shall be
arraigned. The Judge, or the Town Attorney, shall read the complaint to the
defendant, inform him or her of his or her legal rights, including the right of
trial by jury, if available, and of the consequences of conviction, and ask him
or her whether he or she pleads guilty or not guilty. If the defendant pleads
guilty, the court may proceed to judgment and sentence or may continue the
matter for subsequent disposition. If the plea is not guilty, and the case is
not for jury trial, the court may proceed to try the case, or may set it for
hearing at a later date.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-20)
§ 33.21 TRIAL AND JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Postponement. Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause
shown, may obtain a reasonable postponement thereof.
   (B)   Appearance by defendant. The defendant must be present in person at
the trial.
   (C)   Procedures. In all trials, as to matters not covered in this chapter,
or by the statutes relating to municipal criminal courts, or by rules duly
promulgated by the Supreme Court of the state, the procedure applicable in
trials of misdemeanors in the district courts shall apply to the extent that
they can be made effective.
   (D)   Guilty plea or conviction. If the defendant pleads guilty or is
convicted after the trial, the Court must render judgment thereon, fixing the
penalty within the limits prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing
sentence accordingly.
   (E)   Judgment. At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered immediately
by the Judge who shall cause it to be entered in his or her docket.
   (F)   Acquittal. If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be
detained for any other legal cause, he or she must be discharged at once.
   (G)   Payment of fine; imprisonment. A judgment that the defendant pay a
fine may also direct that he or she be imprisoned until the fine is satisfied
at the rate of one day imprisonment for each $5 of fine. If the defendant is
without means to pay the fine or costs, the Municipal Judge may direct the
total amount due to be entered upon the court minutes and to be certified to
the District Court of the county wherein the situs of government is situated
where it shall be entered upon the District Court judgment docket and shall
have the full force and effect of a District Court judgment. Thereupon, the
same remedies shall be available for the enforcement of the judgment as are
available to any other judgment creditor.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-21)
§ 33.22 WITNESS FEES.
   (A)   Witnesses in any proceeding in the Court other than the police
officers or peace officers shall be entitled to a sum per each day of
attendance, plus mileage for each mile actually and necessarily traveled in
going to and returning from the place of attendance if their residence is
outside the limits of the town. However, no witness shall receive fees or
mileage in more than one case for the same period of time or the same travel.
   (B)   A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must deposit with the Clerk
a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for one day of attendance for each
witness to be summoned, but such deposit shall not be required from an indigent
defendant who files an affidavit setting out the following, as the fees of such
witnesses shall be paid by the town:
      (1)   The names of no more than three witnesses;
      (2)   The defendant, by reason of his or her poverty, is unable to
provide the fees and mileage allowed by law;
      (3)   The testimony of the witnesses is material; and
      (4)   Their attendance at the trial is necessary for his or her proper
defense.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-22)
§ 33.23 SUSPENSION OF SENTENCE.
   After conviction and sentence, the Judge may suspend sentence in accordance
with the provisions of, and subject to the conditions and procedures imposed
by, 11 O.S. §§ 27-123 and 27-124.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-23)
§ 33.24 IMPRISONMENT.
   (A)   Copy of judgment. If, after conviction, judgment of imprisonment is
entered, a copy thereof, certified by the Clerk, shall be delivered to the
Chief of Police, the Sheriff of the county, or other appropriate police
officer. Such copy shall be sufficient warrant for execution of the sentence.
   (B)   Work by prisoners.
      (1)   All prisoners confined to jail on conviction or on plea of guilty
may be compelled, if their health permits, to work on the public streets,
avenues, alleys, parks, buildings, or other public premises or property.
      (2)   For each day of such work, the prisoner shall be credited for
serving two days of imprisonment under his or her sentence.
   (C)   Administration of work by prisoners. The Chief of Police, subject to
the direction of the Board of Trustees, shall direct where the work shall be
performed. The head of the department in charge of the place where the work is
to be performed, himself or herself, or by some person designated by him or
her, shall oversee the work. If a guard is necessary, the Chief of Police shall
make provision therefor.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-24)
§ 33.25 FINES AND COSTS.
   If judgment of conviction is entered, the Clerk of the Court shall tax the
costs to the defendant, which shall be the maximum allowed by state law, plus
the fees and mileage of witnesses and jurors, but the total amount of fine may
not exceed the amount set forth in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-25)
§ 33.26 PENALTY ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Payment required. Any person convicted of an offense punishable by a
fine of $10 or more or by incarceration, excluding parking and standing
violations, or any person forfeiting bond when charged with such an offense,
shall be ordered by the Court to pay $7 as a separate penalty assessment, which
shall be in addition to and not in substitution for any and all fines and
penalties otherwise provided for by law for such offense. The Court shall
provide for separate bail for the penalty assessment. A defendant admitted to
bail on an undertaking by a surety may include the amount of the penalty
assessment in the undertaking.
   (B)   Collection and deposit. Upon conviction or bond forfeiture, the Court
shall collect the penalty assessment and deposit it in an account created for
that purpose. As an administrative fee for handling funds collected as a
penalty assessment, the Court is authorized to retain $0.08 of such monies and
may also retain all interest accrued thereon prior to the due date for deposits
as provided in this division (B). The remainder of such monies shall be
forwarded quarterly by the Court Clerk to the State Treasury. Deposits shall be
due July 15 for the preceding quarter ending June 30, October 15 for the
preceding quarter ending September 30, January 15 for the preceding quarter
ending December 31, and April 15 for the preceding quarter ending March 31.
   (C)   Definition. As used in this section, CONVICTED means any final
adjudication of guilt, whether pursuant to a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
or otherwise, and any deferred or suspended sentence or judgment.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-26)
CHAPTER 34: CIVIL DEFENSE
Section
   
34.01   Purpose
   
34.02   Department established
   
34.03   Duties of Director
   
34.04   Powers of Director in emergencies
   
34.05   Compensation of members
§ 34.01 PURPOSE.
   A Civil Defense Organization is created for the town to carry out
preparations for and to function in the event of emergencies endangering the
lives and property of the people of the town. The duties of the Civil Defense
Organization are the protection of the lives and health of the citizens and of
property and property rights, both private and public, and performance of all
functions necessary and incident thereto.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-1)
§ 34.02 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established under the executive branch of the government a
Department of Civil Defense which shall consist of:
   (A)   A Director of Civil Defense who shall be appointed and may be removed
with or without cause by the Mayor; and
   (B)   A Civil Defense Advisory Committee. This Committee shall consist of
the Mayor as Chairperson and five members appointed by the Mayor and serving at
his or her pleasure. The Committee shall select from its members a Vice
Chairperson and Secretary. It shall hold such meetings as are directed by the
Mayor, and its function shall be to act in an advisory capacity as needed or
requested by the Mayor or the Director of Civil Defense.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2)
§ 34.03 DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   The Director of Civil Defense shall be the executive head of the Department
of Civil Defense and shall be responsible for carrying out the civil defense
program of the town. He or she shall serve without compensation but may be
reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of his or her duties. It
shall be the duty of the Director as Civil Defense as soon as practicable after
his or her appointment to perfect an organization to carry out the purposes set
forth in this chapter, and he or she shall have all necessary power and
authority to form committees or other bodies and to appoint and designate the
Chairperson or chief officer of such bodies as may be necessary to perfect such
an organization. He or she shall have further duty and responsibility to
cooperate with all civil defense agencies of other governmental units,
including the state and the federal government. The Director of Civil Defense
is further authorized to formulate written plans and gather information and
keep written record thereof to govern the functions of the civil defense
organization.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3)
§ 34.04 POWERS OF DIRECTOR IN EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Powers enumerated. In the event of an enemy-caused emergency or
emergency resulting from natural causes, the Director of Civil Defense, after
due authorization from the Mayor, shall have the power and authority to enforce
all rules and regulations relating to civil defense and, if necessary, take
control of transportation, communications, stocks of fuel, food, clothing,
medicine, and public utilities for the purpose of protecting the civilian
population. He or she shall cooperate in every way with the activities of other
governmental agencies or civil defense organizations. If required by the Mayor,
the Director shall have control over any and all funds allocated from any
source for the purpose of alleviating distress conditions in the town.
   (B)   Enforcement of laws. The Director of Civil Defense and other members
of the Civil Defense Organization created by him or her shall have the power
and authority to enforce the laws of the state and ordinances of the town
during the period of emergency and shall at such time have the further power to
make arrests for violations of such laws or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-4)
§ 34.05 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
   All members of the Civil Defense Organization created in this chapter shall
serve without compensation. The town shall not be liable for any personal or
bodily injury received by any member of such organization while acting in the
line of duty.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-5)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
35.001   Depositories designated
   
35.002   Contractual services defined
   
35.003   Purchases
   
35.004   Competitive bidding
   
35.005   Purchase orders
   
35.006   Sales by town
Sales Tax
   
35.020   Citation
   
35.021   Definitions
   
35.022   Tax imposed; rate; exemptions
   
35.023   Tax ordinances enumerated; purposes
   
35.024   Classification of taxpayers
   
35.025   Subsisting state permits
   
35.026   Tax due date
   
35.027   Payment of tax; brackets
   
35.028   Tax constitutes debt
   
35.029   Collection by vendor
   
35.030   Returns and remittances; discounts
   
35.031   Interest and penalties
   
35.032   Erroneous payments; claim for refund
   
35.033   Records confidential
   
35.034   Amendments
   
35.035   Provisions cumulative
Utility Tax
   
35.050   Utility tax levied
   
35.051   Franchises exempted
   
35.052   Payment of tax
   
35.053   Tax constitutes lien
   
35.054   Revocable permit for furnishing gas
Use Tax
   
35.065   Tax levied
   
35.066   Exemptions
   
35.067   Time when due; returns; payments
   
35.068   Tax constitutes debt
   
35.069   Collection of tax by retailer or vendor
   
35.070   Collection of tax by retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of
business within state or both within and without state; permits
   
35.071   Revoking permits
   
35.072   Remunerative deductions allowed vendors or retailers of other states
   
35.073   Interest and penalties; delinquency
   
35.074   Waiver of interest and penalties
   
35.075   Erroneous payments; claim for refund
   
35.076   Records confidential
   
35.077   Provisions cumulative
   
35.078   Provisions severable
   
35.079   Definitions
   
35.080   Classification of taxpayers
   
35.081   Subsisting state permits
   
35.082   Purposes of revenues
   
35.083   Citation and codification
Telephone Exchange Fee
   
35.095   Fee levied
   
35.096   Fee in lieu of other taxes
 
   
35.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 35.001 DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED.
   (A)   All banks and all savings and loan associations in the town which are
incorporated under federal or state law are hereby designated as depositories
for the funds of the town.
   (B)   The Town Treasurer shall deposit daily all public funds received by
him or her in such banks or savings and loan associations.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1)
§ 35.002 CONTRACTUAL SERVICES DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition applies unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRACTUAL SERVICES. Services performed for the town by persons not in the
employment of the town, and may include the use of equipment or the furnishing
of commodities in connection with the services under express or implied
contract. CONTRACTUAL SERVICES shall include travel, freight, express, parcel
post, postage, telephone, telegraph, utilities, rents, printing out, binding,
repairs, alterations and maintenance of buildings, equipment, streets, and
bridges, and other physical facilities of the town, and other services
performed for the town by persons not in the employment of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2)
§ 35.003 PURCHASES.
   (A)   Procedure. All purchases of supplies, materials, equipment, and
contractual services for the offices, departments, and agencies of the town
government shall be made by the Town Board of Trustees or by other town
personnel in accordance with purchase authorizations issued by the Town Board
of Trustees.
   (B)   Prior approval of the Board. Every contract for, or purchase of,
supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual services for more than $500
shall require the prior approval of the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.004 COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   Before any purchase of, or contract for, supplies, materials,
equipment, or contractual services is made, as otherwise provided below, the
town purchasing authority shall submit to at least three persons, firms, or
corporations dealing in and able to supply the same, or to a smaller number if
there are not three dealing in and able to supply the same, a request for
quotation, or invitation to bid, and specifications, to give them opportunity
to bid, and/or publish notice of the proposed purchase in a newspaper of
general circulation within the town.
      (2)   He or she shall favor a person, firm, or corporation in the town
when this can be done without additional cost to the town, but he or she shall
submit requests for quotation to those outside the town when this may be
necessary to secure bids or to create competitive conditions, or when he or she
thinks that by so doing, he or she can make a saving for the town, and shall
purchase from them when he or she can make a saving for the town.
      (3)   All bids shall be sealed and shall be opened in public at a
designated time and place. He or she may repeatedly reject all bids, and again
may submit to the same or other persons, firms, or corporations the request for
quotation, or invitation to bid, and/or again publish notice of the proposed
purchase. He or she may purchase from the bidder whose bid is most advantageous
to the town, considering price, quality, date of delivery, and the like, and in
case of a tie, may purchase from one of those tying, or may divide the purchase
among those tying, always accepting the bid or bids most advantageous to the
town.
   (B)   Exceptions. The following may be purchased without giving an
opportunity for competitive bidding:
      (1)   Supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual services whose cost
does not exceed $7,500 in a single transaction;
      (2)   Supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual services which can
be furnished only by a single dealer, or which have a uniform price wherever
bought;
      (3)   Supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual services purchased
from another unit of government at a price deemed below that obtainable from
private dealers, including government surplus;
      (4)   Equipment to replace existing equipment which has become inoperable
when the Board of Trustees declares the purchase an emergency;
      (5)   Contractual services, including, but not limited to, natural gas,
electricity, or telephone service, purchased from a public utility at a price
or rate determined by the State Corporation Commission or other governmental
authority;
      (6)   Supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual services when
purchased at a price not exceeding a price set therefor by the state purchasing
agency or any other state agency hereafter authorized to regulate prices for
things purchased by the state, whether such price is determined by a contract
negotiated with a vendor or otherwise; and
      (7)   Contractual services of a professional nature, such as engineering,
architectural, legal, and medical services unless competitive bidding is
required by applicable law or regulations, such as certain federal grants
programs.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4)
§ 35.005 PURCHASE ORDERS.
   The following rules apply to purchase orders and approvals for the items
listed:
   (A)   MINOR MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR JOBS are less than $25 for purchase items
and less than 50 working hours. The town purchasing authority will keep log in
a book, showing purchases and working hours;
   (B)   (1)   MAJOR MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR JOBS are over $25 for purchase
items, and over 51 working hours. Requirements are:
            (a)   Purchasing authority’s signature; and
         (b)   Signature of Mayor or Board member.
      (2)   In an emergency, the town purchasing authority will take corrective
action, and shall notify the Board of Trustees as soon as is practicable after
completing the emergency repair.
   (C)   (1)   Capital improvement work orders require the following:
         (a)   The signatures of the purchasing authority and another elected
official; and
         (b)   Board action if over $7,500.
      (2)   All work orders will be serially numbered.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-5)
§ 35.006 SALES BY TOWN.
   (A)   Procedure. No surplus or obsolete supplies, materials, or equipment of
a value of more than $500 may be sold until the Town Board of Trustees has
declared them obsolete or surplus. Before the Town Board of Trustees sells any
surplus or obsolete supplies, materials, or equipment, except as otherwise
provided below, they shall be advertised for sale in a newspaper of general
circulation in the town or given notice in such other manner as the Board of
Trustees deems necessary adequately to reach prospective buyers to give them
opportunity to make bids. All bids shall be sealed and shall be opened in
public at a designated time and place, except when the sale is by auction. The
Town Board of Trustees may repeatedly reject all bids and advertise or give
notice again. The Town Board of Trustees shall sell such supplies, materials,
or equipment to the highest responsible bidder for cash. In case of a tie, the
Board of Trustees may sell to either of the bidders tying, or may divide the
sale among two or more tying, always selling to the highest responsible bidder
or bidders for cash.
   (B)   Sales without competitive bidding. The Town Board of Trustees may sell
the following without giving an opportunity for competitive bidding:
      (1)   Surplus or obsolete supplies, materials, or equipment whose total
value does not exceed $500 in a single transaction; and
      (2)   Supplies, materials, or equipment when sold at a price at least as
great as that paid by the town for the same.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-6)
**** SALES TAX ****
§ 35.020 CITATION.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as “Town of Davenport Sales
Tax Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1)
§ 35.021 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The definitions of words, terms, and phrases contained in the State
Sales Tax Code, 68 O.S. § 1352, and 37A O.S. §§ 1-103 and 7-102, are hereby
adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
   (B)   The term TAX COLLECTOR, as used in this subchapter, means the
department of the town or the official agency of the state, duly designated
according to law or contract, and authorized by law to administer the
collection of the tax levied in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2)
§ 35.022 TAX IMPOSED; RATE; EXEMPTIONS.
   There is hereby levied an excise tax of 4% upon the gross proceeds or gross
receipts derived from all sales taxable under the State Sales Tax Code.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-3) (Ord. 80-2, passed 5-3-2010)
§ 35.023 TAX ORDINANCES ENUMERATED; PURPOSES.
   The following table lists the sales tax ordinances which have been enacted
by the town:
 
Ordinance    Date               Description/Purpose
80-2         Effective 8-4-1981 $0.01/capital improvements
80-2 amended Effective 1-1-2011 $0.01/ street and alley
 
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4)
§ 35.024 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the classification of taxpayers
hereunder shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the State Sales
Tax Code.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-5)
§ 35.025 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the State Tax
Commission pursuant to the State Sales Tax Code are, for the purpose of this
subchapter, hereby ratified, confirmed, and adopted in lieu of any requirement
for an additional town permit for the same purpose.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-6)
§ 35.026 TAX DUE DATE.
   The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the State
Sales Tax Code.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-7)
§ 35.027 PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS.
   (A)   Payment. The tax herein levied shall be paid to the Tax Collector at
the time and in form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax.
   (B)   Brackets. The bracket system for the collection of the town sales tax
by the Tax Collector shall be the same as is hereafter adopted by the agreement
of the town and Tax Collector, in the collection of both the town sale tax and
the state sales tax.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-8)
§ 35.028 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   The taxes, penalty, and interest due under this subchapter shall at all
times constitute a prior, superior, and paramount claim as against the claims
of unsecured creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-9)
§ 35.029 COLLECTION BY VENDOR.
   (A)   Duty to collect. The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the
consumer or user to the vendor. It is the duty of each and every vendor in the
town to collect from the consumer or user the full amount of the tax levied by
this subchapter, or an amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the
average equivalent thereof.
   (B)   Tax constitutes debt. Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or
the average equivalent thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added,
such tax shall constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from
the consumer or user to vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in
the same manner as other debts.
   (C)   Violation. Any sum or sums collected or required to be collected in
accordance with this subchapter shall be deemed to be held in trust for the
town.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-10) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.030 RETURNS AND REMITTANCES; DISCOUNTS.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the Tax Collector at the time and in the manner, form, and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the State Sales Tax Code,
and remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same
discount as may be allowed by the State Sales Tax Code for collection of state
sales taxes.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-11)
§ 35.031 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this subchapter,
and interest and penalties at the rates and in amounts as therein specified are
hereby levied by this subchapter. The failure or refusal of any taxpayer to
make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner
required by this subchapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition,
if the delinquency continues for a period of five days, the taxpayer shall
forfeit his or her claim to any discount allowed under this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by
reason of a taxpayer’s failure to pay the town tax herein levied may be waived
or remitted in the same manner as provided for the waiver or as applied in
administration of the state sales tax provided in 68 O.S. § 220.
      (2)   To accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable
provisions of 68 O.S. § 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-12)
§ 35.032 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   (A)   Refund or erroneous payment of the town sales tax herein levied may be
made to any taxpayer making the erroneous payment in the same manner and
procedure, and under the same limitations of time, as provided for
administration of the state sales tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227.
   (B)   To accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions
of 68 O.S. § 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-13)
§ 35.033 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the town sales tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, the provisions of the State Sales Tax Code,
68 O.S. § 205, and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted by reference and
made fully effective and applicable to administration of the town sales tax as
if here set forth in full.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-15)
§ 35.034 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The people of the town, by their approval of the sales tax ordinance,
hereby authorize the Town Board of Trustees, by ordinance duly enacted, to make
such administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner
of administering and enforcing this subchapter as may be necessary or proper
for efficiency and fairness.
   (B)   Neither the rate of the tax herein provided nor the use to which the
revenue is put shall be changed without approval of the qualified electors of
the town as prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-16)
§ 35.035 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be cumulative and in addition to any
or all other taxing provisions of town ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-17)
**** UTILITY TAX ****
§ 35.050 UTILITY TAX LEVIED.
   There is hereby levied and assessed an annual tax of 3% upon the gross
receipts from residential and commercial sales of gas or electricity in the
town, which tax shall be in lieu of any other franchise, license, occupation,
or excise tax levied by such town, all as provided by state law.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-1)
§ 35.051 FRANCHISES EXEMPTED.
   The tax levied under this subchapter shall, when levied, apply to all
persons, firms, associations, or corporations engaged in the business of
furnishing gas or electricity within the town limits, except it shall not apply
to any person, firm, association, or corporation operating under a valid
franchise from the town.
Prior Code, § 2-4-2)
§ 35.052 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   The tax levied under this subchapter on gas or electricity receipts
shall be levied for a term of not more than one year and shall be payable as
required by the Town Board of Trustees and placed in the General Revenue Fund
of the town.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation failing or refusing to pay such tax
when levied shall be regarded as a trespasser and may be ousted from such town
and in addition thereto, an action may be maintained against such person, firm,
or corporation for the amount of the tax, and all expenses of collecting same,
including reasonable attorney fees.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-3)
§ 35.053 TAX CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all the assets
located within the town of any person, firm, or corporation engaged in the
business of selling gas or electricity within the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-4)
§ 35.054 REVOCABLE PERMIT FOR FURNISHING GAS.
   Any persons, firms, associations, or corporations engaged in the business of
furnishing gas within the town limits, not operating under a valid franchise
from the town, and upon whom the tax provided under this subchapter is imposed,
are hereby granted a revocable permit by the town for so long as this
subchapter remains in effect and the taxes are paid in accordance with the
terms of this subchapter to acquire, construct, erect, install, extend, repair,
remove, relocate, replace, operate, and maintain a system of works, pipes,
pipelines, apparatus, structures, and appurtenances in, across, upon, and under
the streets, alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, parks, parkways, sidewalks,
parkings, driveways, rights-of-way, utility easements, and other public ways,
places, areas, and grounds, all being sometimes referred to herein as “streets,
alleys, avenues, and other public ways, places, and grounds,” in the town, as
now constituted, and as may be added to hereafter, for the purpose of
transporting, distributing, and selling gas to the town, its inhabitants and
the public generally for domestic, commercial, and industrial uses, and for any
and all other purposes for which gas, during the period of this revocable
permit, may be used, together with the right to enter upon the streets, alleys,
avenues, and other public ways, places, and grounds of the town for the purpose
of constructing, erecting, installing, extending, relocating, operating,
maintaining, removing, and repairing the works, pipes, pipelines, and all
necessary apparatus, machinery, structures, and appurtenances.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-5)
**** USE TAX ****
§ 35.065 TAX LEVIED.
   Effective January 1, 2011, there is hereby levied and there shall be paid by
every person storing, using, or otherwise consuming within the municipality, an
excise tax on the storage, use, or otherwise consuming within the municipality
of such property at the rate of 4% of the purchase price of such property. Such
tax shall be paid by every person storing, using, or otherwise consuming,
within the municipality, tangible, personal property purchased or brought into
the municipality. The additional tax levied hereunder shall be paid at the time
of importation or storage of the property within the municipality and shall be
assessed to only property purchased outside the state; provided, that the tax
levied herein shall not be levied against tangible, personal property intended
solely for use outside the municipality, but which is stored in the
municipality pending shipment outside the municipality or which is temporarily
retained in the municipality for the purpose of fabrication, repair, testing,
alteration, maintenance, or other service. Any person liable for payment of the
tax authorized herein may deduct from such tax any local or municipal sales tax
previously paid on such goods or services; provided, that the amount deducted
shall not exceed the amount that would have been due if the taxes imposed by
the municipality had been levied on the sale of such goods or services.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-1) (Ord. 184, passed 8-7-1990; Ord. 184, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 35.066 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply:
   (A)   In respect to the use of an article of tangible, personal property
brought into the municipality by a nonresident individual visiting in this
municipality for his or her personal use or enjoyment while within the
municipality;
   (B)   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property purchased for
resale before being used;
   (C)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property on
which a tax, equal to or in excess of that levied by both the State Use Tax
Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq., and this subchapter, has been paid by the
person using such tangible, personal property in the municipality, whether such
tax was levied under the laws of the state or some other state or municipality
of the United States. If any article of tangible, personal property has already
been subjected to a tax by the state or any other state or municipality in
respect to its sale or use, in an amount less than the tax imposed by both the
State Use Tax Code and the town use tax, the provisions of this subchapter
shall also apply to it by a rate measured by the difference only between the
rate provided by both the State Use Tax Code and this subchapter, and the rate
by which the previous tax upon the sale or use was computed. Provided, that no
credit shall be given for taxes paid in another state or municipality, if that
state or municipality does not grant like credit for taxes paid in the state
and the municipality;
   (D)   In respect to the use of machinery and equipment purchased and used by
persons establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the
municipality, and machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons in the
operation of manufacturing plants already established in the municipality.
Provided, this exemption shall not apply unless such machinery and equipment is
incorporated into, and is directly used in, the process of manufacturing
property subject to taxation under the Sales Tax Code of the municipality. The
term MANUFACTURING PLANTS shall mean those establishments primarily engaged in
manufacturing or processing operation, and generally recognized as such;
   (E)   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property now specifically
exempted from taxation under the Sales Tax Code of the municipality;
   (F)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
brought into the municipality by an individual with intent to become a resident
of this municipality where such personal property is for such individual’s
personal use or enjoyment;
   (G)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property
used or to be used by commercial airlines or railroads; and
   (H)   In respect to livestock purchased outside the state and brought into
this municipality for feeding or breeding purposes, and which is later resold.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-2) (Ord. 184, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 35.067 TIME WHEN DUE; RETURNS; PAYMENTS.
   The tax levied by this subchapter is due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the Use Tax
Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq., of the state.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-3) (Ord. 184, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 35.068 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   Such taxes, penalty, and interest due hereunder shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior, and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors, and may be collected by suit as with any other debt.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-4) (Ord. 184, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 35.069 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR.
   (A)   Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within
and without the state and making sales of tangible, personal property from a
place of business outside this state for use in this municipality shall, at the
time of making such sales, collect the use tax levied by this subchapter from
the purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner and
form prescribed by the Tax Commission, if the Tax Commission shall, by
regulation, require such receipt.
   (B)   Each retailer or vendor shall, by regulation, require such receipt.
Each retailer or vendor shall list with the Tax Commission the name and address
of all his or her agents operating in this municipality and location of any and
all distribution or sales houses or offices or other places of business in this
town.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-5) (Ord. 184, passed 8-7-1990) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.070 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR NOT MAINTAINING A PLACE OF
BUSINESS WITHIN STATE OR BOTH WITHIN AND WITHOUT STATE; PERMITS.
   The Tax Commission may, in its discretion, upon application, authorize the
collection of the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not maintaining a
place of business within this state but who makes sales of tangible personal
property for use in this municipality and by the out-of-state place of business
of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within and
without the state and making sales of tangible, personal property at such out-
of-state place of business for use in the municipality. Such retailer or vendor
may be issued, without charge, a permit to collect such taxes, by the Tax
Commission in such manner and subject to such regulations and agreements as it
shall prescribe. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer or
vendor to collect the tax upon all tangible, personal property sold to his or
her knowledge for use within this municipality. Such authority and permit may
be canceled when, at any time, the Tax Commission considers that such tax can
more effectively be collected from the person using such property in the
municipality. Provided, however, that in all instances where such sales are
made or completed by delivery to the purchaser within this municipality by the
retailer or vendor in such retailer’s or vendor’s vehicle, whether owned or
leased (not by common carrier), such sales or transactions shall continue to be
subject to applicable municipality sales tax at the point of delivery and the
tax shall be collected and reported under taxpayer’s sales tax permit number
accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-6) (Ord. 184, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 35.071 REVOKING PERMITS.
   Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or both within and without this state, and authorized to collect the tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this subchapter or
the State Use Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq., or any order, rules, or
regulations of the Tax Commission, the Tax Commission may upon notice and
hearing as provided for in 68 O.S. § 1408, by order revoke the use tax permit,
if any, issued to such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor
is a corporation authorized to do business in this state may, after notice and
hearing above provided, cancel said corporation’s license to do business in
this state and shall issue a new license only when such corporation has
complied with the obligations under this subchapter, the State Use Tax Code, or
any order, rules, or regulations of the Tax Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-7) (Ord. 184, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 35.072 REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS ALLOWED VENDORS OR RETAILERS OF OTHER STATES.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the Tax Commission at the time and in the manner, form, and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the State Use Tax Code, and
remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as
may be allowed by said code for the collection of state use taxes.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-8) (Ord. 184, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 35.073 INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY.
   68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this subchapter, and
interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as therein specified are
hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and
paying the tax levied by this subchapter. Provided, that the failure or refusal
of any retailer or vendor to make and transmit the reports and remittances of
tax in the time and manner required by this subchapter shall cause such tax to
be delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency continues for a period of five
days, the retailer or vendor shall forfeit his or her claim to any discount
allowed under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-9) (Ord. 184, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 35.074 WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   The interest or penalty, or any portion thereof, accruing by reason of a
retailer’s or vendor’s failure to pay the municipality tax herein levied may be
waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver or remittance
as applied in administration of the state use tax provided in 68 O.S. § 220,
and to accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of
said § 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-10) (Ord. 184, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 35.075 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the municipality use tax herein levied may be
made to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and
procedure, and under the same limitations of time, as provided for
administration of the state use tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227, and to
accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of said §
227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-11) (Ord. 184, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 35.076 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the municipality use tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205 of the State
Use Tax Code, and each subsection thereof, is hereby adopted by reference and
made fully effective and applicable to administration of the municipality use
tax as is herein set forth in full.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-13) (Ord. 184, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 35.077 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provision hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of the municipality ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-14) (Ord. 184, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 35.078 PROVISIONS SEVERABLE.
   The provisions hereof are hereby declared to be severable, and if any
section, paragraph, sentence, or clause of this subchapter is for any reason
held invalid or inoperative by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect any other section, paragraph, sentence, or clause
hereof.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-15) (Ord. 184, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 35.079 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of words, terms, and phrases contained in the State Use Tax
Code, 68 O.S. § 1401, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
subchapter. In addition thereto, the following words and terms shall be defined
as follows.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the municipality government of the official
agency of the state, duly designated according to law or contract authorized by
law, to administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
   TOWN. The Town of Davenport, Oklahoma.
   TRANSACTION. Sale.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-16) (Ord. 184, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 35.080 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the classification of taxpayers
hereunder shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the State Use Tax
Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-17) (Ord. 184, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 35.081 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Tax Commission
pursuant to the State Use Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq., are for the
purpose of this subchapter hereby ratified, confirmed, and adopted in lieu of
any requirement for an additional municipality permit for the same purpose.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-18) (Ord. 184, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 35.082 PURPOSES OF REVENUES.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this subchapter to provide
revenues for the support of the functions of the municipal government of the
municipality, and any and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the
governing body of the municipality for any purpose for which funds may be
lawfully expended as authorized.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-19) (Ord. 184, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 35.083 CITATION AND CODIFICATION.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as “Town of Davenport Use
Tax Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 2-5-20) (Ord. 184, passed 8-7-1990)
**** TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE ****
§ 35.095 FEE LEVIED.
   (A)   There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee and service charge
upon each and every person, firm, or corporation operating a telephone exchange
in the town in an amount equal to 2% of the gross revenues for each current
year for exchange telephone transmission service rendered wholly within the
limits of the town to compensate the town for the expenses incurred and
services rendered incident to the exercise of its police power, supervision,
police regulations, and police control of the construction of lines and
equipment of the telephone company in the town.
   (B)   The inspection fee and charge shall be due and payable to the town on
an annual basis or before June 10 of each year and shall be paid into and
appropriated and expended from the General Revenue Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1)
§ 35.096 FEE IN LIEU OF OTHER TAXES.
   During continued substantial compliance with the terms of this subchapter by
the owner of any telephone exchange, the charge levied hereby shall be and
continue to be in lieu of all concessions, charges, excise, franchise, license,
privilege, and permit fees or taxes or assessments, except ad valorem taxes.
However, it is not intended hereby to extinguish or abrogate any existing
arrangement whereby the town is permitted to use underground conduit, duct
space, or pole contacts of the company for the fire alarm or police call
systems of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2)
§ 35.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A vendor, as defined in §
35.029, who willfully or intentionally fails, neglects, or refuses to collect
the full amount of the tax levied by §§
35.020 through
35.035, or willfully or intentionally fails, neglects, or refuses to comply
with the provisions or remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either directly
or indirectly, and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax herein
levied, or makes in any form of advertising, verbally or otherwise, any
statement which infers that he or she is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax
for the consumer or user by an adjustment of prices or at a price including the
tax, or in any manner whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
      (2)   Any person, firm, corporation, joint venture, or association that
willfully or intentionally fails, neglects, or refuses to collect the sums
required to be collected or paid under §§
35.020 through
35.035 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-10)
   (C)   In addition to all civil penalties provided by §§
35.020 through
35.035, the willful failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and
remittances herein required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report
for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof
rightfully due under §§
35.020 through
35.035 shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the offending taxpayer
shall be subject to a fine as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-14)
   (D)   In addition to all civil penalties provided by §§
35.065 through
35.083, the willful failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and
remittances herein required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report
for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof
rightfully due under §§
35.065 through
35.083 shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the offending taxpayer
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100. Each day of noncompliance
with §§
35.065 through
35.083 shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-12)
(Ord. 184, passed 8-7-1990)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND SEWER
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWER
Section
Water and Sewer
   
50.01   Application for public utility service
   
50.02   Payment for service
   
50.03   Rates and charges
   
50.04   Rights reserved
   
50.05   Damages
   
50.06   Sewer connection requirements
Sewer Discharges
   
50.20   Prohibited discharges
   
50.21   Industrial wastes; pretreatment provisions
   
50.22   Grease, oil, and sand traps
   
50.23   Permits
   
50.24   Enforcement
 
   
50.99   Penalty
**** WATER AND SEWER ****
§ 50.01 APPLICATION FOR PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE.
   Every person, firm, or corporation desiring to have his, her, or their
premises connected with the water system shall make application to the Town
Clerk and shall sign a contract therefor upon a printed form to be furnished
for that purpose and shall pay to the Town Clerk a fee as shown below for
turning on the water and shall make a deposit with the Town Clerk as shown
below. If the applicant is a current customer in good standing, there will be
no deposit required. Previous bad debt customers shall make a deposit as shown
below.
   (A)   Deposit for new service: $110;
   (B)   Deposit for new service, bad debt customers with previous balance of
$50 or more: $220;
   (C)   Water turn on: $20; and
   (D)   Water turn off: $20.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1) (Ord. 161A, passed 9-2-2008; Ord. 2013-5, passed 10-1-
2013) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 PAYMENT FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   All bills for water shall be payable to the Town Clerk at the Clerk’s
office on the first day of each month, and must be paid not later than the
fifteenth day of each month following that in which water was used.
   (B)   (1)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill;
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued
for nonpayment; and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in the sum of $20.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be construed as preventing the town from
instituting suit for the recovery of any delinquent water account.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2) (Ord. 161A, passed 11-1-2005; Ord. 161A, passed 9-2-2008)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The town and the Davenport Utilities Authority are hereby authorized
and directed to charge the following fees per utility bill per month issued by
the Davenport Utilities Authority as it pertains to water, sewage service, and
trash service.
   (B)   This section is made applicable as it pertains to each utility bill
and shall not be based on the number of utility accounts held in any single
customer’s name.
   (C)   The charges associated with water usage for all town or Davenport
Utilities Authority accounts shall be as follows:
      (1)   Residential and commercial customer base rate $20.32 for the first
1,000 gallons (zero to 1,000 gallons);
      (2)   Residential usage rates (per 1,000 gallons):
         (a)   One thousand and one to 2,000 gallons: $8.57/1,000 gallons;
         (b)   Two thousand and one to 4,000 gallons: $8.68/1,000 gallons; and
         (c)   All usage above 4,000 gallons: $8.79/1,000 gallons.
      (3)   Rural customer base rate $36.92 for the first 1,000 gallons (zero
to 1,000 gallons):
         (a)   One thousand and one to 2,000 gallons: $8.57/1,000 gallons;
         (b)   Two thousand and one to 4,000 gallons: $8.68/1,000 gallons; and
         (c)   All usage above 4,000 gallons: $8.79/1,000 gallons.
      (4)   RURAL USERS OF TOWN WATER are defined as anyone who lives outside
of the town limits.
   (D)   The charges associated with sewage disposal for all town or Davenport
Utilities Authority accounts shall be as follows:
      (1)   Residential and commercial base rate: $15.13 for the first 1,000
gallons (zero to 1,000 gallons); and
      (2)   Additional usage rates: $5.20 per 1,000 gallons of water usage for
1,001 gallons and over.
   (E)   The charges associated with water service and sewer tap fees for
residential, rural, and commercial customers are as follows:
      (1)   Five-eighths of an inch or three-quarters of an inch meter tap:
$1,250;
      (2)   One-inch meter tap: $2,200;
      (3)   Two-inch meter tap: $4,000;
      (4)   Sewer tap: $250;
      (5)   Reconnection fee: $80;
      (6)   Return check fee: $25;
      (7)   Transfer fee: $40;
      (8)   Late payment fee: 10% of account balance;
      (9)   Water meter deposit fee: $110 (refundable) (homeowner) and $200
(refundable)(rental);
      (10)   New service fee: $40 (non-refundable); and
      (11)   Customer is responsible for road and/or street bore cost.
   (F)   The charge associated with water and sewer users, including base rate,
shall increase automatically by 3% annually beginning on July 1, 2022, and each
July 1 thereafter.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 10-5-2021; Ord. 2022-02, passed 3- -2022; Ord. 2025-6,
passed 5-23-2025)
§ 50.04 RIGHTS RESERVED.
   The town reserves the right to shut off the supply, without notice, for
repairs, extensions, nonpayment of rates, or for any other reason, and no
liability shall attach therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4) (Ord. 161A, passed 1-12-1995)
§ 50.05 DAMAGES.
   The town shall not be liable for any damage caused by the breaking of any
pipes or fixtures, stoppage or interruption of water, or for any defect in the
water system.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-5) (Ord. 161A, passed 1-12-1995)
§ 50.06 SEWER CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Connection required. It is mandatory that all dwellings and commercial
establishments within the corporate limits of the town shall connect to the
sanitary sewer system, provided such system extends to within 150 feet of the
owner’s property line and provided a gravity flow connection is possible.
   (B)   House connections. All house connections to the sanitary sewer shall
conform to the town’s Plumbing Code and shall be so constructed as to eliminate
leakage of wastewater. If vitrified clay tile is used, joints shall be sealed
with standard manufactured rubber sealing rings.
   (C)   Inspection and approval.
      (1)   All lines on private property and connections to the sanitary sewer
system shall be inspected by the Sewer Superintendent or his or her
representative prior to covering, and shall be subject to his or her approval.
This approval shall be contingent upon the following considerations.
         (a)   Lines on private property shall be adequate in size, of durable
materials, and shall be laid with adequate grade.
         (b)   All joints shall be properly and adequately sealed to prevent
leakage or infiltration.
         (c)   The connection to the town sewer line shall be tight and
durable.
         (d)   There shall be no surface or area drains feeding to the sewer
system.
      (2)   The Sewer Superintendent shall be notified in advance of intent to
connect and again when the lines are ready for inspection.
   (D)   Surface drainage. No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged
into the municipal sanitary sewer system any stormwater, groundwater, roof
runoff, foundation drainage, or other surface or subsurface drainage.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-6) Penalty, see §
50.99
**** SEWER DISCHARGES ****
§ 50.20 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
substances if it appears likely, in the opinion of the Sewer Inspector, that
such wastes can harm the sewer, the sewage treatment process, or equipment,
have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life,
limb, or public property, or otherwise constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   The prohibited substances are:
      (1)   Flammable or explosive materials;
      (2)   Water and waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils in excess of
100 milligrams per liter, or containing any substance which may solidify or
become viscous at temperatures higher than 32°F;
      (3)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (4)   Any garbage or food waste not properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any grinder or shredder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower or greater shall be subject to review and approval by the Sewer
Inspector;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing the metals listed below or other
toxic substances in quantities determined by the Sewer Inspector to be harmful:
         (a)   Antimony;
         (b)   Arsenic;
         (c)   Barium;
         (d)   Bismuth;
         (e)   Beryllium;
         (f)   Boron;
         (g)   Cadmium;
         (h)   Chromium;
         (i)   Cobalt;
         (j)   Copper;
         (k)   Iron;
         (l)   Lead;
         (m)   Manganese;
         (n)   Mercury;
         (o)   Molybdenum;
         (p)   Nickel;
         (q)   Rhenium;
         (r)   Selenium;
         (s)   Silver;
         (t)   Strontium;
         (u)   Tellurium;
         (v)   Tin;
         (w)   Uranium; and
         (x)   Zinc.
      (6)   Any water or waste containing iron pickling wastes or plating
solution;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other waste or odor-
producing substances;
      (8)   Any radioactive wastes of a half-life or concentration determined
by the Sewer Inspector to be harmful;
      (9)   Any water or wastes having pH lower than 5.5, or having any
corrosive property capable of damaging installations, equipment, or personnel
of the sewage works;
      (10)   Solid or viscous substances of such size or in such quantities
capable of causing obstruction of sewers or interference with operation of
sewage works, such as ashes, cinders, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, underground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair, fleshing, entrails, and paper containers;
      (11)   Wastes containing unusual concentrations of suspended solids, such
as fuller’s earth, lime, or clay;
      (12)   Wastes containing unusual concentrations of dissolved substances,
such as sodium chloride or sodium sulfate;
      (13)   Water or wastes containing excessive coloration, such as that
caused by dye wastes and tanning solutions;
      (14)   Wastes containing unusual concentrations of organic material, such
as whey, milk, yeast, blood, or unusual biochemical oxygen demand (BOD),
chemical oxygen demand (COD), or chlorine requirement, constituting a
significant load on the sewage treatment facilities; and
      (15)   Materials which cause unusual volume of flow or concentration of
wastes constituting slugs which adversely affect the sewage treatment process.
   (C)   If any water or wastes are discharged or proposed to be discharged
which contain the substances described in division (B) above, the Sewer
Inspector may: prohibit their discharge; require the installation of a control
manhole for observation, sampling, and metering of the wastes; and assess a
surcharge based on the quantity and strength of the wastes. If pretreatment is
to be accomplished, the design, installation, and operation of the plant and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the Sewer Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1) (Ord. passed 9-6-1994) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; PRETREATMENT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Persons or owners discharging industrial wastes which exhibit none of
the characteristics of wastes prohibited in this subchapter, other than
excessive BOD or suspended solids, but have an average concentration during a
24-hour period of BOD or suspended solids content in excess of normal domestic
sewage, will be required to pretreat the industrial wastes to meet the
requirement of normal domestic sewage.
   (B)   However, such wastes may be accepted for treatment if all the
following requirements are met.
      (1)   The wastes will not cause damage to the sanitary sewer collection
system.
      (2)   The wastes will not impair the wastewater treatment process.
      (3)   The discharger of the wastes is assessed a surcharge over and above
the published sewer rates, if deemed appropriate by the Board of Directors of
the utility.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2) (Ord. passed 9-6-1994) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.22 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND TRAPS.
   (A)   Required. Grease, oil, and sand traps or interceptors shall be
provided for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in
excessive amounts, flammable wastes, sand, solid foods, hair, or other harmful
ingredients.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Sewer Inspector of the town and shall be located so as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      (2)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials, capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily
removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gastight and watertight.
      (3)   All installed grease, oil, and other material interceptors shall be
maintained in continuously efficient operation by the owner at his or her
expense.
      (4)   The use of hot water, enzymes, chemicals, other agents, or devices
for the purpose of causing the oil, grease, or other materials to pass through
the interceptor and/or the facility so provided is prohibited.
      (5)   Materials removed from these facilities shall be either utilized by
industry or disposed of at designated and approved locations.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3) (Ord. passed 9-6-1994) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23 PERMITS.
   Applications for permits for sewer connections for industrial wastes shall
show the following information:
   (A)   A plat of the property showing all existing sewers and storm drains;
   (B)   Plans and specifications covering any work proposed to be done under
the permits;
   (C)   A schedule of all process waters and industrial wastes produced or to
be produced, a description of the character of each waste, the daily volumes
and maximum rates of discharge, and representative analyses; and
   (D)   The name of the firm or person who will perform this work covered by
the application.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-4) (Ord. passed 9-6-1994)
§ 50.24 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Notice of requirements. The Sewer Inspector shall cause to be served
on the owner or occupant of any establishment having sewer connections which do
not conform to the provisions hereof at the time of passage of this subchapter
a notice in writing advising of the requirements, which are effective from the
date of service of the notice, and that proper measures have not been taken and
enforcement action may be initiated as set forth elsewhere in the ordinances of
the town.
   (B)   Waste testing. The Sewer Inspector shall cause samples of wastes from
industrial establishments to be obtained and tested periodically to determine
the quantity and composition thereof.
   (C)   Interceptor installation. All owners or occupants of any establishment
required to have interceptors shall be given a period of one year from the date
this subchapter goes into effect to comply with the requirements of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-5) (Ord. passed 9-6-1994) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of
§§
50.01 through
50.06 is guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be fined as set forth
in §
10.99.
      (2)   Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-7) (Ord. 161A, passed 1-12-1995)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Collection authorized
   
51.02   Nuisance; containers
   
51.03   Rates and charges
   
51.04   Metal dumpsters
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 COLLECTION AUTHORIZED.
   The town may collect and dispose of garbage and other refuse or may contract
with private persons to do so.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1)
§ 51.02 NUISANCE; CONTAINERS.
   All garbage and other refuse on all premises within the town shall be cared
for in a manner which shall prevent it from becoming a nuisance. It shall be
placed in containers prescribed by the Board of Trustees by motion or
resolution, and shall be placed for pickup in an accessible location on the
premises as may be prescribed by motion or resolution of the Board of Trustees.
It is unlawful to dump trash or other refuse on any property in the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The town and the Davenport Utilities Authority are hereby authorized
and directed to charge the following fees per utility bill per month issued by
the Davenport Utilities Authority as it pertains to refuse and garbage
disposal, and said new law shall pertain to an amendment of § 8 of Ordinance
No. 2023-04 and shall be effective July 1, 2023. Charges to be incurred for
poly cart or dumpster fees shall be as follows:
      (1)   One poly cart for residential: $15.03;
      (2)   One add-on poly cart for residential: $11.50;
      (3)   One poly cart commercial: $15.03;
      (4)   One add-on poly cart commercial: $11.50;
      (5)   Two-yard dumpster: $52.50;
      (6)   Four-yard dumpster: $85;
      (7)   Six-yard dumpster: $112.50;
      (8)   Eight-yard dumpster: $161.25; and
      (9)   Lock for dumpster: $12.50.
   (B)   Setting up new service:
      (1)   Deposit for trash service only: $50; and
      (2)   Service charge: $20.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3)
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 7-2-2013; Ord. 2014-2, passed 8-12-2014; Ord. 2023-04,
passed - -)
§ 51.04 METAL DUMPSTERS.
   No metal dumpster shall be placed on or allowed on any residential customer
property after July 1, 2023. No metal dumpster shall be placed on any adjoining
street or alleys.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §§
51.01 through
51.03 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-4)
   (C)   Violation of §
51.04 shall be considered a misdemeanor, and any person found guilty of such an
offense shall be fined $130 plus the cost of the action.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed - -)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SIGNALS AND DEVICES
      
72.   MOVING REGULATIONS
      
73.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
74.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
75.   RAILROADS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Driver’s license
   
70.03   Vehicle license
   
70.04   Opening and closing vehicle doors
   
70.05   Boarding or alighting from vehicles
   
70.06   Vehicle equipment
   
70.07   Truck routes
   
70.08   Size and weight of vehicles
   
70.09   Securing loads
   
70.10   Inspection of vehicles
   
70.11   Emergency vehicles
   
70.12   Fire apparatus
   
70.13   Street repairs
   
70.14   Accidents
   
70.15   Insurance or certificate required
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.30   Adoption of State Traffic Code
   
70.31   Application of regulations
   
70.32   Permitting violations prohibited
   
70.33   Duty of police
   
70.34   Eluding police officer
   
70.35   Issuance of citation tags
   
70.36   Failure to obey citation
   
70.37   Cancellation of citations
   
70.38   Disposition and record of citations
   
70.39   Court records
Impoundment of Vehicles
   
70.50   Purpose and effect
   
70.51   Place of impoundment
   
70.52   Duration of impoundment
   
70.53   Authority to impound
   
70.54   Disabled vehicles
   
70.55   Vehicles on bridge
   
70.56   Arrest and detention of driver
   
70.57   Traffic hazard
   
70.58   Illegal trespass
   
70.59   Vehicles parked overtime
   
70.60   Obstruction of fire exits or hydrants
   
70.61   Vehicles in intersection
   
70.62   Stolen vehicles
   
70.63   Vehicles with outstanding traffic citations
   
70.64   Inventory of impounded vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Words and phrases used in this title shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1)
§ 70.02 DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   It is unlawful for any person who does not have a driver’s license, as
required by state law for operation of a vehicle upon the state highways, to
operate a motor vehicle within the town, or to operate a motor vehicle within
the town in violation of any restriction applied to the driver’s license.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 VEHICLE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall drive, propel, move, or park on the streets of the
town any motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer unless the motor vehicle,
trailer, or semitrailer is licensed as required by state law and the license is
conspicuously displayed thereon.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle not bearing a
current motor vehicle license tag or tags on any street or highway within the
town.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 VEHICLE EQUIPMENT.
   Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the town shall be equipped as
required by law. It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Operate a vehicle upon a street of the town which is not equipped as
required by law;
   (B)   Fail to use such equipment in the manner required by law, or to use it
in a manner prohibited by law; or
   (C)   Operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by law upon any
street in the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   Power to establish; compliance. The Board of Trustees may, by motion
or resolution, prescribe routes through the town for the use of trucks in
general, trucks of particular kinds, and/or other vehicles which are not
ordinary private passenger vehicles, passing through the town. Appropriate and
adequate signs shall be placed along such routes so that drivers of such
vehicles may follow the routes. When such signs are so erected and in place,
the driver of a truck or other vehicle for which a route has been prescribed,
as provided above, while passing through the town, shall keep on such route and
shall not deviate therefrom except in case of emergency. Drivers of such
vehicles shall follow such routes so far as practicable also when driving
within the town and not merely through the town.
   (B)   Routes designated. Established truck routes in the town will be:
      (1)   North and South Broadway;
      (2)   East and West Sixth Street;
      (3)   East Frisco; and
      (4)   West Main Street.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Parking tractor at residence. The driver of a tractor may, after
filing with the town a direct route from the truck route to his or her place of
residence, drive a tractor to the residence. The tractor must be parked on the
property of the driver, and must not be parked on the side of the street or
right-of-way. The custodian of the property where the tractor is parked must
keep the drive at a level even or above the street surface. The custodian will
also be responsible to repair any damage caused by the vehicle.
      (2)   Motor homes. The driver of a motor home, travel trailer, or the
like shall also be required to keep the motor home or travel trailer on private
property, and it must not be parked on the side of the street or right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-7) (Ord. 190, passed 2-6-1996; Ord. 190, passed 9-7-2006)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 SIZE AND WEIGHT OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall drive on or convey through any street
any vehicle the width, height, length, weight, or load of which exceeds that
authorized by state law, except in accordance with a permit issued by state
authority or by the Chief of Police. The state laws on limitation of weights
shall be applicable to the truck routes, streets, roads, and highways within
the town limits.
   (B)   Vehicles weighing more than ten tons. No vehicle weighing more than
ten tons shall be operated upon the streets, alleys, and other public ways
within the town, except on state highways.
   (C)   Other vehicles regulated. No loaded or partially loaded motor vehicle
of five tons or more, and no loaded or partially loaded truck tractor, and no
loaded or partially loaded semitrailer, or combination of such vehicles, shall
be driven upon any of the streets or roads in the municipal limits of the town
except for utility service vehicles, or for the purpose of making a specific
pickup or delivery at a specific point which requires travel on streets other
than the established truck routes in the municipal limits of the town.
   (D)   Exceptions. The load limit shall not apply to owners of motor homes,
which may be driven from residential areas to the highway.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-8) (Ord. 190, passed 2-6-1996) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 SECURING LOADS.
   (A)   Leaking materials. No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway,
street, or alley unless the vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent
any of its load from dropping, shifting, leaking, blowing, or otherwise
escaping therefrom, except that sand may be dropped for the purpose of securing
traction, or water or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in
cleaning or maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   Load to be covered. No person shall operate on any highway, street, or
alley any vehicle with any load unless the load and any covering thereon is
securely fastened so as to prevent the covering or load from becoming loose,
detached or in any manner a hazard to other users of the highway. Any vehicle
loaded with sand, cinders, or other loose material susceptible to blowing or
escaping by reason of wind or vibration shall have the load covered or dampened
so as to prevent the blowing or escaping of the load from the vehicle.
   (C)   Livestock and poultry. This section shall not apply to trucks loaded
with livestock, poultry, or agricultural products, except baled agricultural
products; provided that any such truck shall be so constructed or loaded as to
prevent such livestock or poultry from escaping therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-9) (Ord. 190, passed 2-6-1996) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES.
   Police officers have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon the
streets of the town at any time to determine whether it is safe, whether it is
properly equipped, and whether its equipment is in proper adjustment or repair.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Applicability of provisions. The provisions of this title shall not
apply to a driver of an authorized emergency vehicle when responding to an
emergency call, or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of
the law, or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm. The
exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall apply only
when the driver of the vehicle, while in motion, sounds audible signal by bell,
siren, or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and when the vehicle
is equipped with at least one lighted lamp displaying a red light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, except that an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police
vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red light visible from in front
of the vehicle. These provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (B)   Approach of emergency vehicle. Upon the immediate approach of an
authorized emergency vehicle making use of audible and visual signals meeting
the requirements of the laws of this state, or of a police vehicle properly and
lawfully making use of an audible signal or red flashing lights, the driver of
every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to
a position parallel to, and as close as possible to, the right-hand edge or
curb of the roadway clear of any intersection and shall stop and remain in such
position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 FIRE APPARATUS.
   (A)   Following prohibited. The driver of any vehicle, other than on
official business, shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to
a fire alarm closer than 500 feet or drive or park such vehicle within the
block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
   (B)   Crossing fire hose. No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected
hose of a Fire Department when laid down on any street or private driveway, to
be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire
Department official in command.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 STREET REPAIRS.
   (A)   Street closing. Town employees or contractors, while repairing or
improving the streets of the town, and utility company personnel, when
installing, improving, or repairing lines or other utility facilities in the
streets, are hereby authorized as necessary, subject to control by the Board of
Trustees, to close any street or section thereof to traffic during such repair,
maintenance, or construction. In exercising such authority, the employees,
personnel, or contractors shall erect or cause to be erected proper control
devices and barricades to warn and notify the public that the street has been
closed to traffic.
   (B)   Barricades. When any street has been closed to traffic under the
provisions of division (A) above and traffic control devices or barricades have
been erected, it is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through,
under, over, or around the traffic control devices or barricades, or otherwise
to enter the closed area. The provisions of this division (B) shall not apply
to persons while engaged in the construction, maintenance, and repair, or to
persons entering therein for the protection of lives or property. Persons
having their places of residence or places of business within the closed area
may travel, when possible to do so, through the area at their own risk.
   (C)   Traffic control devices. Whenever construction, repair, or maintenance
of any street or utility line or facility is being performed under traffic, the
employees, personnel, or contractor concerned shall erect, or cause to be
erected, traffic control devices to warn and guide the public, and every person
using the street shall obey all signs, signals, markings, flaggers, or other
traffic control devices which are placed to regulate, control, and guide
traffic through the construction or maintenance area.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-13) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.14 ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   Duty of driver. The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident
resulting in injury to or death of any person, or damage to any vehicle or
property, shall immediately stop his or her vehicle at the scene of such
accident, or as close thereto as possible, return to and remain at the scene of
the accident until he or she has given his or her name, address, and the
registration of his or her vehicle and shall, upon request, exhibit his or her
driver’s license and his or her security verification form to the person
injured or the driver or occupant of, or person attending, any vehicle collided
with, and shall render to any person injured in such accident reasonable
assistance, including the carrying or making arrangement for the carrying of
such persons to a physician, surgeon, or hospital for medical and surgical
treatment if it is apparent that this treatment is necessary, or if such is
requested by the injured person. Each such stop shall be made without
obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
   (B)   Report of accident.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an
accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person or in which it is
apparent that damage to one vehicle or to the property is in excess of $300
shall, as soon as practicable, report such accident to a police officer or to
the Police Department.
      (2)   If a driver makes out a written report of the accident in the
office of the Police Department as soon as practicable after the accident,
which report is to be forwarded to the State Department of Public Safety in
accordance with state law, the driver shall be deemed to be in compliance with
this section.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-14) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.15 INSURANCE OR CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Verification form. The owner of a motor vehicle registered in this
state and operating the vehicle within the town’s boundaries shall carry in
such vehicle at all times a current owner’s security verification form listing
the vehicle, or an equivalent form which has been used by the State Department
of Public Safety, which shall be produced by any driver thereof upon request
for inspection by any law enforcement officer and, in case of a collision, the
form shall be shown upon request to any person affected by the collision.
   (B)   Exceptions. The following shall not be required to carry an owner’s or
operator’s security verification form or an equivalent form from the Department
during operation of the vehicle and shall not be required to surrender such
form for vehicle registration purposes:
      (1)   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government, or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol, or logo of the business,
corporation, or utility on the exterior and which is in compliance with the
Compulsory Insurance Law according to records of the State Department of Public
Safety which reflect a deposit, bond, self-insurance, or fleet policy;
      (3)   Fleet vehicles maintaining current vehicle liability insurance as
required by the Corporation Commission or any other regulating entity;
      (4)   Any licensed taxicab; and
      (5)   Any vehicle owned by a licensed motor vehicle dealer.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW. The law requiring liability insurance in
conjunction with the operation of a motor vehicle in this state as found in 47
O.S. § 7-606.
      OPERATOR’S POLICY. An operator’s policy of liability insurance, which
shall insure the named person against loss from the liability imposed upon him
or her by law for damages arising out of the operation or use by him or her of
any motor vehicle not owned by him or her, subject to the same limits of
liability required in an owner’s policy.
      OWNER’S POLICY. An owner’s policy of liability insurance which:
         (a)   Shall designate by explicit description or by appropriate
reference all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted;
         (b)   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other
person, except as provided in division (c) below of this definition, using an
insured vehicle with the express or implied permission of the named insured,
against loss from the liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the
ownership, maintenance, operation, or use of such vehicle;
         (c)   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with
existing laws; and
         (d)   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 O.S. § 7-204.
      SECURITY.
         (a)   A policy or bond meeting the requirements of 47 O.S. § 7-204;
         (b)   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of limits
required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as acceptable limits for a policy or bond; or
         (c)   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 O.S. § 7-503,
having the equivalency of limits required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as acceptable
limits for a policy or bond.
      SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM. A form, approved by the insurance
commissioner, verifying the existence of security required by the Compulsory
Insurance Law of the state.
   (D)   Liability coverage. Every operator of a motor vehicle registered in
this state shall, while operating or using such vehicle within the town’s
boundaries, carry either an operator’s or an owner’s security verification form
issued by a carrier, providing the operator is not excluded from coverage
thereon; or an equivalent form issued by the State Department of Public Safety,
reflecting liability coverage.
   (E)   Suspension of sentence. A sentence imposed for any violation of this
section may be suspended or deferred in whole or in part by the court.
   (F)   Proof of security. Any person producing proof in court that a current
security verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by the
Department reflecting this liability coverage for such person was in force at
the time of the alleged offense shall be entitled to dismissal of such charge.
   (G)   Forward of abstract. Upon conviction, bond forfeiture, or deferral of
sentence, the Court Clerk shall forward an abstract to the State Department of
Public Safety within ten days reflecting the action taken by the court.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-15) Penalty, see §
70.99
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 70.30 ADOPTION OF STATE TRAFFIC CODE.
   The provisions of the State Motor Vehicle Code, 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.,
and the Rules of the Road, 47 O.S. §§ 11-101 et seq., are hereby adopted and
incorporated herein by reference, and are enforceable by the town within the
town limits as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1)
§ 70.31 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Public ways. The provisions of this title shall apply to every street,
highway, alley, roadway, sidewalk, driveway, park area, and every other public
way, either within or outside the corporate limits of the town, the use of
which the town has jurisdiction and authority to regulate, including, but not
limited to:
      (1)   Those dedicated to or acquired by the public for public use;
      (2)   Those upon land owned by the town;
      (3)   Those upon land owned by any other governmental unit, but the
regulation of the use of which has been given to the town; and
      (4)   Those upon private property, the regulation of the use of which has
been given to the town.
   (B)   Animal drawn vehicles. Every person propelling any pushcart or riding
an animal upon a roadway, and every person driving any animal drawn vehicle,
shall be subject to the provisions of this title applicable to the driver of
any vehicle except those provisions of this title which by their very nature
can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2)
§ 70.32 PERMITTING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a vehicle owned by him or her,
registered in his or her name, or under his or her control to be driven,
parked, or stopped in violation of any provision of this title. No parent of
any child or guardian of any ward shall cause, authorize, or knowingly permit
such child or ward to violate any provision of this title.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.33 DUTY OF POLICE.
   The Police Department shall have the power to enforce the street traffic
regulations of the town and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic in the town, to make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate
accidents, and to cooperate with the officers of the town in the administration
of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve traffic
conditions. Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire or
other emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic there or
in the immediate vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-5)
§ 70.34 ELUDING POLICE OFFICER.
   No person operating a motor vehicle who has received a visual or audible
signal directing the operator to bring his or her vehicle to a stop shall
willfully increase his or her speed or extinguish his or her lights or in any
other manner attempt to or actually elude such law enforcement officer. A
VISUAL OR AUDIBLE SIGNAL, for the purpose of this section, means a red light
and a siren from a law enforcement officer driving a motor vehicle with
insignia showing the same to be an official police, sheriff, or highway patrol
car.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.35 ISSUANCE OF CITATION TAGS.
   (A)   Tags provided. The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed
to supply police officers with citation tags in sets, each set consisting of an
original and at least two duplicate copies, for the purpose of giving notice to
persons violating any provision of this title.
   (B)   Notice to violator. Notice may be given by delivering the tag to the
violator or by affixing it to the vehicle involved in the violation.
   (C)   Content of citation. Each citation tag shall direct the violator to
appear and to present such tag at a designated place on or before a date and
hour specified thereon. Each tag shall bear the registration number of the
vehicle.
   (D)   Power of arrest. Nothing in this section shall be construed to abridge
the power of a police officer to arrest any violator and take him or her into
custody.
   (E)   Power of Board. The Town Board of Trustees may require that the police
officers use citation tags furnished by the Finance Department and that such
tags are serially numbered, and may regulate the use and handling of the
citation tags.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-7)
§ 70.36 FAILURE TO OBEY CITATION.
   (A)   Promise to appear. It is unlawful and an offense for any person to
violate his or her written promise to appear, given to an officer upon the
issuance of a traffic citation, regardless of the disposition of the charge for
which the citation was originally issued.
   (B)   Citation affixed to vehicle. If a violator of the restrictions on
stopping, standing, or parking under the traffic laws or ordinances does not
appear in response to a traffic citation affixed to such motor vehicle within a
period of five days, the Clerk of the Municipal Court may send to the owner of
the motor vehicle to which the traffic citation was affixed a letter informing
him or her of the violation and warning him or her that in the event such
letter is disregarded for a period of five days, a warrant of arrest may be
issued. On any occasion where two or more such traffic citations have been
affixed on the same motor vehicle and the traffic citations have been
disregarded, a warrant of arrest may be issued without sending the letter
provided in this section.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.37 CANCELLATION OF CITATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to cancel or solicit the cancellation of any
traffic citation in any manner other than as provided by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.38 DISPOSITION AND RECORD OF CITATIONS.
   (A)   Filing of original citation. Every police officer upon issuing a
traffic citation to an alleged violator of any provision of the motor vehicle
laws of this state or any traffic law of the town shall deposit the original
and a duplicate copy of the citation with his or her immediate superior
officer, who shall cause the original to be delivered to the Municipal Court.
   (B)   Official action required. Upon the filing of the original citation in
the Municipal Court, the citation may be disposed of only by trial in the court
or by other official action of the Judge of the Court, including forfeiture of
bail or by payment of a fine.
   (C)   Record of warrants. The Chief of Police shall maintain a record of all
warrants issued by the Municipal Court which are delivered to the Police
Department for service, and of the final disposition of the warrants.
   (D)   Other disposition prohibited. No member of the Police Department or
other officer or public employee shall dispose of, alter, or deface a traffic
citation or any copy thereof, or the record of the issuance or disposition of
any traffic citation, complaint, or warrant in a manner other than as required
in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-10)
§ 70.39 COURT RECORDS.
   (A)   Records kept by Clerk. The Municipal Court Clerk shall keep a record
of every traffic citation deposited with or presented to the Court and shall
keep a record of every official action by the Court or its Traffic Violations
Bureau in reference thereto, including, but not limited to, a record of every
conviction, forfeiture of bail, judgment of acquittal, and the amount of fine
or forfeiture.
   (B)   Forward of abstract. Within ten days after the conviction or
forfeiture of bail of a person upon a charge of violating any provision of this
subchapter or other law regulating the operation of vehicles on highways, the
Municipal Judge or Clerk of the Court in which the conviction was had or bail
was forfeited shall prepare and immediately forward to the State Department of
Public Safety a certified abstract of the Court’s record of the case. An
abstract need not be made of any conviction involving the illegal parking or
standing of a vehicle.
   (C)   Content of abstract. The abstract must be made upon a form furnished
by the State Department of Public Safety and shall include the name and address
and date of birth of the party charged, the traffic citation number, the number
of his or her operator’s or chauffeur’s license, the license plate number of
the vehicle involved, the nature and date of the offense, the date of hearing,
the plea, the judgment, whether bail was forfeited, and the amount of the fine
or forfeiture.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-11)
**** IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES ****
§ 70.50 PURPOSE AND EFFECT.
   The impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this
subchapter shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the
public peace, safety, and welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and shall
be used generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention
and abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law violations,
protection of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares from
obstructions placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for
safeguarding and protecting recovered stolen vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-1)
§ 70.51 PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this subchapter
shall be removed to the nearest garage or place of safekeeping designated by
the Town Board of Trustees, and to no other place.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-2)
§ 70.52 DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Order for release. Except as otherwise provided, any vehicle impounded
under the authority of this subchapter shall be stored and held safely until an
order for its release is received from an officer of the Traffic Violations
Bureau or other proper police officer.
   (B)   Payment of costs. The order of release of an impounded vehicle shall
be conditioned upon the payment by the person to whom the release is issued of
all impoundment costs and accrued storage charges assessed against the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-3)
§ 70.53 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND.
   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized within the limits set
forth in this subchapter to impound vehicles under the circumstances
hereinafter enumerated. No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order
of an authorized police officer and in strict adherence with the procedures
required in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-4)
§ 70.54 DISABLED VEHICLES.
   A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the
following circumstances:
   (A)   If left unattended and improperly parked on a street or highway and
constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic;
or
   (B)   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated to
such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal and the
vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic or a hazard.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-5)
§ 70.55 VEHICLES ON BRIDGE.
   An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct, or causeway, or in any
tube or tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic or
hazard, may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-6)
§ 70.56 ARREST AND DETENTION OF DRIVER.
   Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under
arrest and taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which
leave or will leave a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle
may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-7)
§ 70.57 TRAFFIC HAZARD.
   A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley, or thoroughfare and so
parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic shall be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-8)
§ 70.58 ILLEGAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   Impoundment on complaint. An unattended vehicle found to be in
violation of this code may be impounded when the required complaint has been
properly made and filed as provided in this section.
   (B)   Complaint procedure. If a violation of the provisions of this code
occurs, the owner or legal occupant who complains shall sign a complaint
against the person parking the vehicle on the owner’s or legal occupant’s
property, or if the identity of the person parking the vehicle is unknown, then
the complaint may be filed against the registered owner of the vehicle. The
complaint shall be verified and shall allege that the complaining party is the
owner or legal occupant of the property upon which the vehicle is parked or
standing.
   (C)   Filing of complaint. Upon filing of the complaint by the property
owner or legal occupant, and if there appears to be proper cause to believe the
provisions of this code have been violated, the Police Department shall cause
the vehicle to be impounded from the property and placed in storage.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-9)
§ 70.59 VEHICLES PARKED OVERTIME.
   Any unattended vehicle which has been parked for more than one hour in
excess of the time allowed for parking in any place shall be impounded, and any
vehicle parked in violation of this code regarding more than 24 hours shall be
impounded.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-10)
§ 70.60 OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE EXITS OR HYDRANTS.
   Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire escape
ladder, device, or exit, or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant, shall be
impounded.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-11)
§ 70.61 VEHICLES IN INTERSECTION.
   Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection shall be
impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection with the person in charge of
the vehicle being present shall be moved out of the intersection and to the
nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-12)
§ 70.62 STOLEN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Unidentified owner. Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and
the registered owner cannot be found within a reasonable time not exceeding one
hour, or cannot be determined from the registration papers or other identifying
media in the vehicle or from records or information available from reports of
stolen cars, the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place to
impoundment and the registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the
location of the place of impoundment as soon as possible by the Police
Department.
   (B)   Identified owner. If the registered owner is identified, located, and
notified of the recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the
right to make his or her own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within
the period of one hour from the time he or she is actually notified of its
recovery, and if the owner is unable or unwilling to effect the removal within
the time specified, the vehicle may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-13)
§ 70.63 VEHICLES WITH OUTSTANDING TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   Any vehicle for which two or more citations have been issued, for violation
of an ordinance, and have not been presented as required, may be impounded if
parked in violation of any provision of this title.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-14)
§ 70.64 INVENTORY OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   Any vehicle impounded for any reason shall be inventoried by two or more
persons for the protection of the owner and his or her property, the protection
of town law enforcement personnel, and the protection of the garage or wrecker
service moving or holding the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-15)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violations of the provisions of this title shall be punishable as
provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3)
   (B)   Any driver diverting from the route filed with the town as described
in §
70.07, or failing to file, shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined as
set forth in §
10.99 for each day of the violation. The town shall have the authority to have
removed and stored, at the driver/owner’s expense, any truck, semitractor,
trailer, or other motor vehicle that is parked in violation of §
70.07.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-7)
   (C)   Any person failing to stop or comply with any of the requirements of §
70.14 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-14)
   (D)   An owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a valid and
current security verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by
the Department upon request of any peace officer of the Department, as
described in §
70.15, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject
to a fine as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-15)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SIGNALS AND DEVICES
Section
   
71.01   Obedience to devices
   
71.02   Enforcement
   
71.03   Interference with devices
   
71.04   Presumption of legality
   
71.05   Ratification of existing devices
   
71.06   Traffic control signal legend
   
71.07   Flashing signals
   
71.08   Traffic lanes
   
71.09   One-way streets
   
71.10   Through streets
   
71.11   Procedure at stop signs
   
71.12   Procedure at yield signs
§ 71.01 OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this title unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police
officer, subject to the exceptions granted to the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this title.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   No provision of this title for which official traffic control devices are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and
place of the alleged violation, an official device is not in proper position
and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever
a particular section does not state that official traffic control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-2)
§ 71.03 INTERFERENCE WITH DEVICES.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic control device or
any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or
any other part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 PRESUMPTION OF LEGALITY.
   (A)   Placement of signs. Whenever official traffic control devices are
placed in position approximately conforming to the requirements of this
chapter, such devices shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official
act or direction of lawful authority, unless the contrary shall be established
by competent evidence.
   (B)   Compliance with requirements. Any official traffic control device
placed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and purporting to conform to
the lawful requirements pertaining to such devices shall be presumed to comply
with the requirements of this chapter, unless the contrary shall be established
by competent evidence.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-4)
§ 71.05 RATIFICATION OF EXISTING DEVICES.
   All traffic control signs, signals, devices, and markings placed or erected
prior to the adoption of this title and in use for the purpose of regulating,
warning, or guiding traffic are hereby affirmed, ratified, and declared to be
official traffic control devices, provided such traffic control devices are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or state law.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-5)
§ 71.06 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   (A)   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting
different colored lights, or colored lighted arrows, successively one at a time
or in combination, only the colors green, red, and yellow shall be used, except
for special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend.
   (B)   These lights shall indicate appropriate action and apply to drivers of
vehicles and pedestrians as provided by applicable state law.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-6)
§ 71.07 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows.
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection, or at a limit line when marked, or if
none, then before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   (B)   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.08 TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   Staying in lane required. Where traffic lanes have been marked, it
shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such
vehicle within the boundaries of any such lane, except when lawfully passing
another vehicle or preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or otherwise
authorized by ordinance.
   (B)   Multiple lane roadways. Whenever any roadway has been divided into two
or more clearly marked lanes for traffic, the following rules, in addition to
all others consistent herewith, shall apply.
      (1)   Driving within lane. A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as
practicable entirely within a single lane, and shall not be moved from such
lane until the driver has first ascertained that such movement can be made with
safety.
      (2)   Three-lane roadways. Upon a roadway which is divided into three
lanes, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking
and passing another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such
center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a
left turn, or where such center lane is, at the time, allocated exclusively to
traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to
give notice of such allocation.
      (3)   Slow traffic. Official signs may be erected directing slow moving
traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction, regardless of the center of the
roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.09 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   Signs. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the town designates any
one-way street or alley, the appropriate town personnel shall place and
maintain signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective
unless the signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic
movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
   (B)   Movement of traffic. Upon those streets and parts of streets and in
those alleys designated as one-way streets or alleys, vehicular traffic shall
move only in the indicated direction when signs indicating the direction of
traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where movement in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.10 THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   Designation. The Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may
designate any street or part of a street a through street.
   (B)   Signs. Whenever a through street is designated by the Board of
Trustees, the appropriate town personnel shall be directed to place and
maintain a stop sign, or on the basis of an engineering and traffic
investigation at any intersection, a yield sign, on each and every street
intersecting such through street unless traffic at any such intersection is
controlled at all times by traffic control signals.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-10)
§ 71.11 PROCEDURE AT STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   Manner of stopping. Except when directed to proceed by a police
officer or traffic control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop
intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk
on the near side of the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk,
shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the point
nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching
traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the intersection.
   (B)   Proceeding into intersection. After having stopped at a stop sign, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has
entered the intersection from another street or which is approaching so closely
on the street as to constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver having so
yielded may proceed and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the
intersection shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle so proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.12 PROCEDURE AT YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for
safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, the driver shall stop
at a clearly marked stop line, or if no stop line, then at the point nearest
the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on
the intersecting roadway. The driver approaching a yield sign shall yield the-
right of-way to any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which he or she
is driving, and to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another
highway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   The driver, having so yielded, may proceed, and the drivers of all
other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to the vehicle so
proceeding; provided, however, that if such driver is involved in a collision
with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or vehicle in the intersection after driving
past a yield sign without stopping, such collision shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of his or her failure to yield right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-12) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: MOVING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Manner of operation
   
72.02   Starting parked vehicle
   
72.03   Driving on right side of roadway
   
72.04   Right-of-way
   
72.05   Reckless driving
   
72.06   Driving while intoxicated
   
72.07   Driving on sidewalk
   
72.08   Limitations of backing
   
72.09   Corner cutting
   
72.10   Emerging from alley, driveway, or building
   
72.11   Seat belts and child passenger restraints
Speed Regulations
   
72.25   General rule
   
72.26   Maximum speed limit
Turning and Signals
   
72.40   Turning at intersections
   
72.41   Prohibited turns and U-turns
   
72.42   Signals required
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 72.01 MANNER OF OPERATION.
   Every person operating a vehicle in the town shall at all times operate the
vehicle in a prudent and careful manner and in compliance with the laws of the
town and state, having due regard for other vehicles, rights of pedestrians,
and property of others.
(Prior Code, § 6-3A-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made in safety.
(Prior Code, § 6-3A-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   Driving on right required; exceptions. Upon all roadways of sufficient
width, a vehicle shall be driven upon the right half of the roadway, except as
follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway, provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic; or
      (5)   Upon a roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic.
   (B)   Slow vehicles. Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than
the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then
existing shall be driven in the right-hand lane when available for traffic, or
as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway and may
be temporarily driven upon the right-hand shoulder for the purpose of
permitting other vehicles to pass. This division (B) shall not apply when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
(Prior Code, § 6-3A-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the right-
of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different street,
provided that the driver of a vehicle on a street which is not a state or
federal highway approaching an intersection with a state or federal highway
shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the
intersection or which is so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
When two vehicles enter or approach an intersection from different highways at
approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield
the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
(Prior Code, § 6-3A-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive recklessly in the town. RECKLESS
DRIVING shall include any person who drives a motor vehicle in willful or
wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property or at a heedless or
dangerous rate of speed.
(Prior Code, 6-3A-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (A)   Influence of alcohol. It is unlawful for any person who is under the
influence of intoxicating liquor to drive, operate, or be in actual physical
control of any motor vehicle within the town.
   (B)   Impairment of driving ability. It is unlawful for any person whose
ability to drive, operate, or be in actual physical control of any motor
vehicle is impaired due to consumption of intoxicating liquor or low point beer
to drive a motor vehicle within the town.
   (C)   Influence of drugs. It is unlawful for any person who is a habitual
user of or under the influence of any narcotic, drug, barbiturate, amphetamine,
marijuana, or who is under the influence of any other drug to a degree which
renders him or her incapable of safely driving a motor vehicle to drive a motor
vehicle within the town. The fact that any person charged with a violation of
this division (C) is or has been lawfully entitled to use such narcotic drug,
barbiturate, amphetamine, marijuana, or other drug shall not constitute a
defense against any charge of violating this division (C).
(Prior Code, § 6-3A-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07 DRIVING ON SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 6-3A-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.08 LIMITATIONS OF BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-3A-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.09 CORNER CUTTING.
   No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or upon any
parking facility except with the intent of availing himself or herself of the
services offered on the premises served by the service drive or parking
facility. No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or across
any parking facility for the purpose of shortening their travel distance,
avoiding a traffic control device, avoiding using the streets for travel, or
turning a vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction on the street from
which it entered the drive.
(Prior Code, § 6-3A-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.10 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY, OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle within a Business or Residence District emerging
from an alley, driveway, or building shall stop the vehicle immediately prior
to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway or driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may
be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-3A-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.11 SEAT BELTS AND CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINTS.
   (A)   Seat belts required. Every operator and front seat passenger of a
passenger car operated in the town shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened
safety belt system, required to be installed in the motor vehicle, when
manufactured pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 571.208. For the purposes of this section,
PASSENGER CAR shall mean AUTOMOBILE as defined in 47 O.S. § 1-103.1, except
that PASSENGER CAR shall not include trucks, pickup trucks, truck-tractors,
recreational vehicles, vans, motorcycles, or motorized bicycles.
   (B)   Exception. Division (A) above shall not apply to an operator or
passenger of a passenger car in which the operator or passenger possesses a
written verification from a physician licensed in the state that he or she is
unable to wear a safety belt system for medical reasons. The issuance of such
verification by a physician, in good faith, shall not give rise to, nor shall
such physician thereby incur, any liability whatsoever in damages or otherwise
to any person injured by reason of such failure to wear a safety seat belt
system. Division (A) above shall not apply to an operator of a motor vehicle
who is a route carrier of the U.S. Postal Service.
   (C)   Child passenger restraint.
      (1)   Use required. Every driver, when transporting a child under four
years of age weighing 60 pounds or less in a motor vehicle operated on the
roadways, streets, or highways of the town, shall provide for the protection of
the child by properly using a child passenger restraint system or a properly
secured seat belt in the rear seat of the motor vehicle. For purposes of this
division (C), CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM means an infant or child
passenger restraint system that meets the federal standards for crash-tested
restraint systems as set by 49 C.F.R. § 571.213. Children at least four years
of age but younger than 13 years of age shall be protected by the use of a
child passenger restraint system or a seat belt. The provisions of this
division (C) shall not apply to:
         (a)   A nonresident driver transporting a child in this state;
         (b)   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle, or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state
or federal laws;
         (c)   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
         (d)   A driver of a vehicle if all of the seat belts in the vehicle
are in use; and
         (e)   The transportation of children who for medical reasons are
unable to be placed in such devices.
      (2)   Enforcement. A law enforcement officer is hereby authorized to stop
a vehicle if it appears that the driver of the vehicle has violated the
provision of this division (C) and to give an oral warning to the driver. The
warning shall advise the driver of the possible danger to children resulting
from the failure to install or use a child passenger restraint system or seat
belts in the motor vehicle. A person who violates the provision of this
division (C) shall be subject to a fine as shown on the bond schedule. A
violation of the provisions of this division (C) shall not be admissible as
evidence in any civil action or proceeding for damages. In any action brought
by or on behalf of an infant for personal injuries or wrongful death sustained
in a motor vehicle collision, the failure of any person to have the infant
properly restrained in accordance with the provisions of this division (C)
shall not be used in aggravation or mitigation of damages.
   (D)   Seat belts; enforcement. Law enforcement officers are hereby provided
the authority to make routine stops for the purpose of enforcing the Seat Belt
Law, being 47 O.S. § 12-417.
      (1)   The State Department of Public Safety shall not record or assess
points for violation of the Seat Belt Law.
      (2)   Violations of the Seat Belt Law shall be punishable by fine as
shown on the bond schedule.
(Prior Code, § 6-3A-11) (Ord. 201, passed 12-2-1997; Ord. 197, passed 3-1-2010)
Penalty, see §
70.99
**** SPEED REGULATIONS ****
§ 72.25 GENERAL RULE.
   (A)   Prudent speed.
      (1)   Any person driving a vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street, and
any other condition then existing.
      (2)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a highway at a speed greater
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (B)   Slowing for hazards. The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent
with the requirements of division (A) above, drive at an appropriate reduced
speed when approaching and crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing,
when approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
driving upon any narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazard exists with
respect to pedestrians or other traffic, or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
(Prior Code, § 6-3B-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.26 MAXIMUM SPEED LIMIT.
   (A)   (1)   No vehicle, unless otherwise specifically authorized by this
subchapter, shall be driven at a speed greater than 25 mph upon any street
within the town.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may determine that certain other speed
regulations shall be applicable upon specified streets or in certain areas, in
which event it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed
in excess of any speed so declared when signs are in place giving notice
thereof.
   (B)   All vehicles must drive 15 mph on any street adjacent to any school
between 7:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on days when school is in session.
(Prior Code, § 6-3B-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
**** TURNING AND SIGNALS ****
§ 72.40 TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows.
   (A)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall
be made as close a practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   Left turns on two-way roadways.
      (1)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection and after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of
the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in
that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn
left shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard, but the driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required by this title, may make such left turn, and the
drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from such opposite
direction shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn.
(Prior Code, § 6-3D-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.41 PROHIBITED TURNS AND U-TURNS.
   (A)   Designation of intersections. The Board of Trustees may determine
those intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left,
or U-turn, and shall place proper signs at such intersections. The making of
such turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at
other hours, in which event the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs or
they may be removed when such turns are permitted.
   (B)   Compliance required. Whenever authorized signs are erected indicated
that no right, left, or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall
disobey the directions of any such sign.
(Prior Code, § 6-3D-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.42 SIGNALS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Signal required. No person shall turn a vehicle to the right or left
except upon giving a signal of intention, as provided in this section, in the
event any other traffic may be affected by such movement.
   (B)   Manner of giving signal. A signal of intention to turn right or left,
when required, shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100
feet traveled by the vehicle before turning.
   (C)   Sudden stops. No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a
vehicle except upon the giving of a signal of intention, as provided herein, to
the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is an opportunity
to give such signal.
(Prior Code, § 6-3D-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
73.01   Obstructing traffic or driveways
   
73.02   Parking within indicated space
   
73.03   Parallel parking
   
73.04   Angle parking
   
73.05   Parking prohibitions in specific areas
   
73.06   Loading zones
   
73.07   Selling merchandise from parked vehicles
   
73.08   Presumption in reference to illegal parking
   
73.09   Handicapped parking
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC OR DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street or alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the
width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within a street or
alley in such position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting
property.
(Prior Code, § 6-3C-1) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 PARKING WITHIN INDICATED SPACE.
   In an area where parking spaces have been marked off on the surface of the
street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park within a parking space as thus
marked off, and not on or over a line delineating a space.
(Prior Code, § 6-3C-2) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 PARALLEL PARKING.
   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway shall be so stopped or parked
in the direction of lawful traffic movement with the curbside wheels of the
vehicle parallel to and within 18 inches of the curb or roadway edge.
(Prior Code, § 6-3C-3) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   Designation. The Board of Trustees may determine upon what streets
angle parking is permitted and shall direct the marking or signing of the
streets. Angle parking shall not be indicated or permitted at any place where
passing traffic would thereby be caused or required to drive upon the left side
of the street. ANGLE PARKING, for the purpose of this title, shall mean parking
at the curb at approximately a 45-degree angle between the right side of the
vehicle and the curb.
   (B)   Manner of parking. On those streets which have been signed or marked
for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the
angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by the signs or markings
with the front of the vehicle directed toward the curb or edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Restrictions. No person shall park or stand a vehicle in angle parking
spaces designated by markings upon the pavement unless the vehicle is
positioned within the confines of an individually marked space. The vehicle
shall not be of such length, or positioned in a manner, as to protrude into the
street a distance which would cause or require passing traffic to change lanes
or drive on the left side of the street.
(Prior Code, § 6-3C-4) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 PARKING PROHIBITIONS IN SPECIFIC AREAS.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance
with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic control
device, no person shall:
   (A)   Stop, stand, or park a vehicle:
      (1)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street except as authorized otherwise in this section;
      (2)   On a sidewalk;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   On a crosswalk;
      (5)   Along or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (6)   On any railroad tracks;
      (7)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking; or
      (8)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway underpass.
   (B)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily
to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
      (1)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (2)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (3)   Within ten feet of a crosswalk at an intersection, except in marked
parking spaces;
      (4)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop sign,
or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (5)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station; or
      (6)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
(Prior Code, § 6-3C-5) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   Designation. The Board of Trustees may determine the location of
passenger and freight curb loading zones and shall place and maintain
appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours during which the
provisions of this section are applicable.
   (B)   Passenger curb loading zone. No passenger shall stop, stand, or park a
vehicle for any purpose or period of time other than for the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers in any place marked as a passenger curb
loading zone during hours when the regulations applicable to such curb loading
zone are effective, and then only for a period not to exceed ten minutes.
   (C)   Freight curb loading zone. No person shall stop, stand, or park a
vehicle for any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious
unloading and delivery or pickup and loading of materials in any place marked
as a freight curb loading zone during hours when the provisions applicable to
such zones are in effect. In no case shall the stop for loading and unloading
of materials exceed 30 minutes.
   (D)   Exception. The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a
place marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of, and while
actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers, when such stopping does
not interfere with any motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials
which is waiting to enter or about to enter the zone.
(Prior Code, § 6-3C-6) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07 SELLING MERCHANDISE FROM PARKED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle upon a street in the town
and offer merchandise for sale therefrom. In addition to the penalty provided
in this title, the sale of merchandise from parked vehicles on streets in the
town is declared to be dangerous to traffic and to the persons congregating
around the vehicle and constitutes a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 6-3C-7) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   (A)   Prima facie evidence. In any prosecution charging a violation of any
law or regulation governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that
the particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of
any law or regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the
complaint was, at the time of the parking, the registered owner of the vehicle,
shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered
owner of the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the
point where, and for the time during which, the violation occurred.
   (B)   Applicability. The presumption in division (A) above shall apply only
when the procedure, as prescribed in this chapter, has been followed.
(Prior Code, § 6-3C-8)
§ 73.09 HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   It is unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle in any
parking space on private property accessible to the public and where the public
is invited or public property that is designated and posted as a reserved area
for parking of motor vehicles of a physically disabled person unless such
person has a physical disability insignia as under the provisions of 47 O.S. §
15-112, and such insignias are displayed as provided in 47 O.S. § 15-112 or
regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 6-3C-9) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
73.09 shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-3C-9)
CHAPTER 74: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
74.01   Compliance required
   
74.02   Applicability of traffic laws
   
74.03   Traffic control devices
   
74.04   Manner of riding
   
74.05   Speed
   
74.06   Riding on sidewalks
   
74.07   Lights and reflectors
Utility Terrain Vehicles
   
74.20   Definition
   
74.21   Permit requirement
   
74.22   Operation of UTVs
 
   
74.99   Penalty
**** BICYCLES ****
§ 74.01 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to do any act or fail to perform any act
required by the provisions of this subchapter. The parent of any child or the
guardian of any ward shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such child or
ward to violate any of the provisions of this subchapter. The provisions of
this subchapter are applicable to bicycles operated upon any street or highway
or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-1) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.02 APPLICABILITY OF TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of any
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the traffic ordinances of the town applicable to the driver of a
vehicle, except as to special regulations in this subchapter and except as to
those provisions of law and ordinances which by their nature can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-2)
§ 74.03 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signals, signs, and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer. Whenever authorized
signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-turn is permitted, no
person operating a bicycle shall disobey the direction of any such sign, except
where such person dismounts from the bicycle to make any such turn, in which
event, such person shall then obey the regulations applicable to pedestrians.
Any person may walk bicycles and shall then be subject to all laws applicable
to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-3) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 MANNER OF RIDING.
   (A)   Use of seat. A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used
to carry more persons at one time than the number for which it is designated
and equipped.
   (B)   Right side of roadway. Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising
due care when passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same
direction.
   (C)   Riding abreast. Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride
more than two abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.05 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-5) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.06 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   Bicycles may not be ridden upon any sidewalk within the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-6) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.07 LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS.
   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp on
the frame which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the State Department of Public Safety, which shall be visible from all
distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful
upper beams of headlamps of a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-7) Penalty, see §
74.99
**** UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES ****
§ 74.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE (UTV). A vehicle designed for operation off of the
highway, suspended on four tires, has a steering wheel for steering control,
and has one seat to accommodate a driver and one passenger sitting side by
side. This definition does not include all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) or
motorcycle dirt bikes.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-1) (Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 74.21 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   A permit must be purchased from the town in order to operate a UTV. The
annual cost for this permit shall be $50 and shall be good for one year from
the date of issuance. Proof of insurance must be presented when purchasing
permit.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-2) (Ord. 2014-1, passed 6-3-2014) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.22 OPERATION OF UTVS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a UTV upon the streets
of the town unless a town permit is purchased or the UTV falls under the
“implement of husbandry” clause in the Oklahoma Statutes, being 47 O.S. § 1-
125.
   (B)   The following rules are to be followed.
      (1)   The operator shall be a licensed driver, who shall be at least 18
years of age.
      (2)   Insurance must be kept current and carried by the operator.
      (3)   The operator shall at all times obey the traffic law of the town.
      (4)   The operator shall only cross Highway 66 at the intersections of
Seventh, Eighth, or Ninth Streets.
      (5)   The operator shall at no time drive a UTV at a speed greater than
25 mph.
      (6)   UTVs may be operated 24 hours per day.
      (7)   UTVs shall have a slow-moving vehicle warning sign attached to the
rear of it.
      (8)   The operator and passenger must wear proper safety equipment and
seat belts per state law.
      (9)   All passengers under the age of 18 must wear a helmet and eye
protection if the UTV has no windshield.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-3) (Ord. 2014-1, passed 6-3-2014; Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-
2015) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Failure to comply with the rules in §§
74.20 through
74.22 will constitute a citation with a fine of $200 and court costs.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-4) (Ord. 2014-1, passed 6-3-2014)
CHAPTER 75: RAILROADS
Section
   
75.01   Improvement of streets and alleys
   
75.02   Sidewalk construction
   
75.03   Climbing on trains
Cross-reference:
Additional regulations for public ways, see
Ch. 150
§ 75.01 IMPROVEMENT OF STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   When a railway occupies any portion of a street with its tracks
running in a general direction of such street, either on or adjacent thereto,
the railway company shall improve the space between its tracks and two feet on
either side thereof in the same manner that the remainder of the street is to
be, or has been, improved, or with such other satisfactory material as the
Board by motion or resolution may approve.
   (B)   In case any railway company shall occupy an alley with its track or
tracks, such company shall improve, gutter, drain, and grade such alley, and
shall surface or pave it with the same material which is to be, or has been,
used on the alley, or with such other satisfactory material as the Board by
motion or resolution may approve. When the tracks of any railroad company cross
any street that is being or has been paved, the company shall pave as much of
the street as is occupied by its track or tracks and two feet on each side,
using the same material as is to be, or has been, used on the street, or such
other satisfactory material as the Board by motion or resolution may approve.
   (C)   When more than one track crosses a street within a distance of 100
feet, measuring from inside rail to inside rail, the railroad company shall
grade, gutter, drain, and curb the street area between its tracks, and surface
or pave it with the same material which the town is to use, or has used, on the
street.
   (D)   Railroad companies shall keep all such improvements made by them in a
good state of repair at all times.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.02 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   Railway companies shall construct sidewalks crossing their rights-of-way,
using the same material as is used in adjacent sidewalks crossing their rights-
of-way, using the same material as is used in adjacent sidewalks insofar as
this is practicable under the circumstances. They shall construct sidewalks on
both sides of the streets when both sides are used by pedestrians. The company
shall keep such sidewalks in a good state of repair at all times.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.03 CLIMBING ON TRAINS.
   It is unlawful for any person to climb upon, hold to, or in any manner
attach himself or herself to any railway train, locomotive, or railway car
while such is in motion within the town, unless such person is acting in line
of duty, or to board any train or railroad car, including a passenger, freight,
or other car, except with a proper ticket or the permission of the person in
charge of the train or car or in line of duty.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
91.   CEMETERY
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
94.   ANIMALS
      
95.   TOBACCO POLICIES
CHAPTER 90: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Rules and regulations
   
90.02   Fees
Town Lake
   
90.15   Hours
   
90.16   Fishing permits; fees
   
90.17   Fishing, wading, and swimming
   
90.18   Prohibited fishing
   
90.19   Creel limits
   
90.20   Boats; wake area
   
90.21   Hunting
   
90.22   Weapons and explosives
   
90.23   Animals
   
90.24   Fires; camping
   
90.25   Littering, pollution, and glass
   
90.26   Traffic and vehicles
   
90.27   Special events exempt
 
   
90.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 90.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Board of Trustees shall promulgate, invoke, create, amend, and enforce
such rules, regulations, and other requirements as it deems necessary or
expedient in connection with the use of all recreational and park facilities
owned or operated by the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1)
§ 90.02 FEES.
   The town shall provide by rules, from time to time, the fees charged for any
such park or recreational privileges on any property or facility for
recreational purposes owned or operated by the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2)
**** TOWN LAKE ****
§ 90.15 HOURS.
   The Davenport Lake Park will be open the year around.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1) (Ord. 2002-5, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 90.16 FISHING PERMITS; FEES.
   (A)   Permits. All permits for fishing may be purchased at the Town Hall,
214 Broadway, during normal business hours, and at other locations as
determined by the Town Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Permit fees; exemptions.
      (1)   Fees established. A fee is hereby levied on every person between
the ages of 16 and 62 fishing at the Davenport Town Lake as hereinafter
prescribed:
         (a)   One-day permit. A fee of $1 per day shall be collected from each
person fishing at Davenport Town Lake for a one-day permit; or
         (b)   Annual permit. A fee of $10 per year for a permit to fish for
one year. Each yearly permit shall be issued for $10 for any part of said
calendar year.
      (2)   Disposition of fees. Such fees shall be credited to the General
Fund of the town.
      (3)   Exemption from fees. No fee will be required for town employees or
their families (i.e., spouses, sons, daughters, grandchildren).
   (C)   State license. Each person applying for a permit to fish at Davenport
Town Lake as provided in division (B)(1) above shall be required to have a
valid state fishing license, and shall provide same when applying for a permit
to fish in Davenport Town Lake.
   (D)   Inspection of permit. Every person must keep said fishing permit
available at all times for inspection by officials of the town, who are
authorized to demand said permit at any time.
   (E)   Persons under 16. Persons under the age of 16, fishing, must be in the
company of a permittee.
   (F)   Revocation. Any permit issued under the provisions of this subchapter
may be revoked for the violation of any applicable provisions of state law,
this subchapter, or any town ordinance, rules, or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2) (Ord. 2002-5, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 90.17 FISHING, WADING, AND SWIMMING.
   All fishing must be done from the lake bank, or from a boat, or by tube
fishing, and it shall be unlawful to wade, swim, or bathe in said lake; except,
that any authorized person may fish with wading boots or watertight clothing to
a depth not to exceed the height of the boots.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3) (Ord. 2002-5, passed 5-7-2002) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 PROHIBITED FISHING.
   It shall be unlawful to use nets or traps for fishing. No person shall use
more than two poles at one time for fishing, and there shall be no more than
two hooks attached to each pole. It shall be unlawful to use trout lines, throw
lines, spear guns, yo-yos, grab hooks, spears, gigs, limb lines, jigging, and
chumming in the Davenport Town Lake.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-4) (Ord. 2002-5, passed 5-7-2002) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 CREEL LIMITS.
   (A)   Channel catfish. Limit six daily. Must be over 14 inches. All catfish
caught under 14 inches must be released immediately upon being caught.
   (B)   Bass. Limit six daily. Must be over 14 inches. All bass caught under
14 inches must be released immediately upon being caught.
   (C)   Other applicable laws. All other federal, state, and local laws
governing fishing apply on the Davenport Town Lake, except as the town, for the
purposes of regulating fishing, may modify these laws.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-5) (Ord. 2002-5, passed 5-7-2002) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20 BOATS; WAKE AREA.
   (A)   Boat size. It shall be unlawful to be on the lake in a boat larger
than 20 feet.
   (B)   No wake area. The entire lake is a no wake area. As used in this
subchapter, a WAKE AREA means the track of waves left by a vessel or other
object moving through the water and such waves are greater than the natural
waves in the immediate area of the vessel, or are cresting and showing white
water or may cause injury or damage to any person or property.
   (C)   State laws adopted. The provisions of the State Vessel and Motor
Registration Act, 63 O.S. §§ 4001 et seq., and the provisions of the State
Boating Safety Regulation Act, 63 O.S. §§ 4202 et seq., and all rules and
regulations promulgated in furtherance thereof are hereby adopted and
incorporated herein by reference, and are enforceable by the town within the
Davenport Town Lake property as fully as if set forth at length herein.
   (D)   Numbering of watercraft. All watercraft operated on the water of the
Davenport Town Lake shall be numbered in accordance with state statutes and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-6) (Ord. 2002-5, passed 5-7-2002) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 HUNTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt or trap animals on Davenport
Town Lake property.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-7) (Ord. 2002-5, passed 5-7-2002) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Target practice. No target practice is allowed on Davenport Town Lake
property.
   (B)   Possession of weapons or explosives. Possession of firearms,
ammunition, loaded projectile firing devices, bows and arrows, crossbows,
explosives, or explosive devices of any kind, including fireworks, is
prohibited on Davenport Lake property.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-8) (Ord. 2002-5, passed 5-7-2002) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 ANIMALS.
   (A)   Restraint required. It shall be unlawful for any person to bring or
allow dogs, cats, or other pets or animals into any area of the Davenport Town
Lake unless such animal is penned, caged, on a leash under six feet in length,
or otherwise physically restrained.
   (B)   Swimming prohibited. All animals and pets are prohibited from swimming
in Davenport Town Lake.
   (C)   Unattended animals. Unclaimed or unattended animals are subject to
immediate impoundment and removal in accordance with town ordinances, and all
fees for impoundment must be paid before the impounded animal is returned to
its owner.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-9) (Ord. 2002-5, passed 5-7-2002) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 FIRES; CAMPING.
   (A)   Fires prohibited. It shall be unlawful to start, build, kindle,
maintain, or use a fire on Davenport Town Lake property.
   (B)   Camping.
      (1)   Fees.
         (a)   Primitive camping fee: $8 per day; and
         (b)   Primitive camping, seniors (65 and older): $4 per day or $50 per
year.
      (2)   Duration. The use of any camping site shall not exceed four days in
duration.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-10) (Ord. 2002-5, passed 5-7-2002; Ord. 2022-05, passed 6-
14-2022) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 LITTERING, POLLUTION, AND GLASS.
   (A)   Littering and pollution prohibited. No person shall leave, place, or
dispose of in any manner garbage, peelings, or vegetables or fruit, waste,
refuse, rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, motor
vehicles, bicycle or wagon parts, furniture, glass, oils, sewage, or anything
of an unsightly or unsanitary nature under or upon the land and water of the
Davenport Town Lake.
   (B)   Glass containers prohibited. No person shall have glass containers of
any type on lake property.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-11) (Ord. 2002-5, passed 5-7-2002) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES.
   (A)   Operation on roads only. No person shall operate any vehicle within
any area of the Davenport Town Lake property except on marked roads or parking
lots.
   (B)   Travel restricted. No person shall operate any motor vehicle within
any area except for necessary unloading or loading of boats and direct
transportation to or from the Davenport Town Lake property.
   (C)   Compliance with laws. Vehicles shall be operated only in accordance
with applicable federal, state, and town laws.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-12) (Ord. 2002-5, passed 5-7-2002) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 SPECIAL EVENTS EXEMPT.
   Exceptions to this subchapter for special events will be considered by the
Town Board of Trustees on a case-by-case basis. For a special events exemption
for any section of this subchapter, a request must be made to the Town Board of
Trustees at a regular meeting of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-13) (Ord. 2002-5, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to use any of the park or recreational
facilities without having complied with the rules and regulations promulgated
by the Board of Trustees in connection therewith, as stated in §
90.01. Anyone violating any of the rules and regulations, or failing to comply
with such, shall be guilty of an offense and, on conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use the Davenport Town Lake
property without having complied with the rules and regulations promulgated by
the Board of Trustees, as in §§
90.15 through
90.27, and anyone violating any of the rules and regulations, or failing to
comply with such, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4)
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 5-7-2002)
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERY
Section
   
91.01   Cemetery Board
   
91.02   Duties and responsibilities
   
91.03   Cemetery Care Fund
   
91.04   Donations and deposits
   
91.05   Lot sales
   
91.06   Burial
   
91.07   Disinterment and removal
   
91.08   Markers
   
91.09   Trees, shrubs, and other improvements
   
91.10   Injury to property
   
91.11   Conduct in cemeteries
   
91.12   Admittance of children
   
91.13   Traffic regulations
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 CEMETERY BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment; appointment; terms. There is hereby established a
Cemetery Board of Trustees. Said Board of Trustees shall consist of three
members appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Town Board of
Trustees. The term of each member shall be six years; except, that when the
Board is first appointed, one member shall serve a term of two years, one
member shall serve a term of four years, and one member shall serve a term of
six years.
   (B)   Powers of Board. The Board shall pass all necessary and needful rules
and regulations protecting and governing the municipal cemetery, the ownership
of lots therein, visitors therein, and punishment of trespassers therein. They
shall have full and complete control of the cemetery, and shall be authorized
to have power to fix the price for which lots shall be sold or for which an
interment shall be made. Prices may be adjusted by motion or resolution of the
Board. The Board shall appoint all officers and employees necessary for the
purpose of control and management of the cemetery and fix their compensation.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1)
§ 91.02 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Maintenance. It shall be the duty of the Board to care for and protect
the grounds and their appurtenances, enforce the rules and regulations, to
provide for repairs and construction of improvements, and the maintenance of
all permanent improvements and embellishments of any kind which tend to
beautify such cemetery or preserve it permanently as a place of burial of the
human dead.
   (B)   Clerk; receipts. It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk, under the
direction of the Board, to execute all certificates for sale of lots, to
receipt for all monies received from such sales, or from interments or from any
other source, and to turn over all such funds and monies so received to the
Town Treasurer therefor, and deliver such receipt to the Board.
   (C)   Change of address. It is the duty of the lot owner to notify the town
of any change of address.
   (D)   Alterations to cemetery. The town reserves the right to enlarge,
reduce, replat, or change the boundaries of the cemetery, including the
location of road and walks.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-2) (Ord. passed 9-2-1997)
§ 91.03 CEMETERY CARE FUND.
   (A)   Allocation of funds. Twenty-five percent of all monies received from
the sale of lots and interments in the cemetery shall be segregated and set
aside as a permanent fund to be known as the Cemetery Care Fund, such fund to
be invested as provided by the laws of the state.
   (B)   Custodian. The Town Treasurer is hereby made the custodian of the
Cemetery Care Fund of the town.
   (C)   Interest. Only the interest derived from the investment of the
Cemetery Care Fund shall be used for the improving, caring for, and
embellishing the lots, walks, drives, parks, and other improvements in the
cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-3)
§ 91.04 DONATIONS AND DEPOSITS.
   Donations, deposits and bequests may be made in trust for the special care
of specified lots, monuments, or mausoleums in the cemetery, and the funds
shall be invested in like manner as the Cemetery Care Fund, but a separate
account shall be kept of each amount so deposited, donated, and bequeathed, and
such funds shall be expended as specified by the donor.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-4)
§ 91.05 LOT SALES.
   (A)   Sale. All lots in the cemetery shall be sold by the cemetery agent,
and signed by the Mayor and Town Clerk.
   (B)   Payments; prices. Payments for lots are to be made at the Town Clerk’s
office. A copy of prices in effect for lot spaces is kept in the Town Clerk’s
office. Prices are subject to change without notice.
   (C)   Determination of rates. Burial spaces purchased by down payment with
no subsequent payments will be charged at the current established price. Lots
previously used will be charged at the rate in effect at time of initial
burial.
   (D)   Time payment. Burial spaces purchased on time payment must be
completely paid within a 12-month period, unless special arrangements are made
with the Board.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-5) (Ord. passed 9-2-1997)
§ 91.06 BURIAL.
   (A)   Deed and notification required. No body shall be buried until some
authorized person has first procured a deed to the lot. No body shall be buried
therein until the cemetery agent has been notified thereof, and all burials
shall be under the direction of the cemetery agent.
   (B)   Lot designation. When an interment is to be made, the location of such
interment shall be designated by the lot owner. Should the lot owner fail to
make such designation, the cemetery agent shall have the right to make the lot
designation.
   (C)   Responsibility. The town shall not be held responsible for errors in
location of graves on lots arising from improper instructions of lot owners.
   (D)   Funeral directors. Orders from funeral directors shall be construed as
orders from owners.
   (E)   Orders by telephone. Under no circumstances shall the town assume
responsibility for error in opening graves when orders are given by telephone.
   (F)   Grave openings. All grave openings are to be made under the direction
of the cemetery agent, by town employees, or such persons as the cemetery agent
shall designate.
   (G)   Interments. Only one interment in any one grave shall be permitted.
   (H)   Below ground level. All burials must be below the surface of the
natural level of the ground.
   (I)   Interment charges. All charges for interment are set by the Town
Board.
   (J)   Weekends and holidays. Burials on Saturdays, Sundays, legal holidays,
and until noon on Monday will be charged at twice the established rate.
   (K)   Notice of interment. The right is reserved by the town to insist upon
a 24-hour notice prior to interment.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-6) (Ord. passed 9-2-1997) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 DISINTERMENT AND REMOVAL.
   Disinterment and removal of a body shall not be made without the permission
of the cemetery agent, the lot owner, or the next of kin of the deceased.
Graves shall not be opened for inspection except for official investigation
according to the statutes of the state and the rules and regulations of the
State Department of Health.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-7) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 MARKERS.
   (A)   Verification of location. Grave markers will not be installed until
proper location has been verified by the cemetery agent.
   (B)   Enclosure. No plot or lot shall be enclosed in any type of ground
marker, curbing, or fencing.
   (C)   Corner markers. Corner markers will be permitted when not over six
inches in diameter and sunk flush with the ground.
   (D)   Foundations.
      (1)   Basic standards. Grave markers must have a concrete foundation that
is no fewer than six inches deep below ground level; and, if the monument stone
is eight inches or more in thickness (depth, while standing upright), there
must be two concrete piers constructed, one on each end below the foundation.
The piers must be no less than one foot deep below the foundation and no less
than eight inches wide.
      (2)   Apron. All concrete foundations supporting an upright monument must
have sufficient width and length to allow for an exposed apron no less than six
inches wide extending around the base of the stone, and the apron must be
ground level.
      (3)   Tall monuments. If an upright monument is 30 inches or more in
height, a minimum of two six-inch stainless steel or aluminum dowel rods must
be utilized in its erection. At least three inches of each dowel rod must be
likewise inserted in a drilled hole in the monument. The joints of all upright
stones must be sealed properly with a quality granite sealer or epoxy cement or
glue that is manufactured for that purpose.
      (4)   Ground level markers. Grave markers that are erected level with the
ground in the town cemetery must be set in a concrete foundation that is at
least six inches below ground level. The concrete foundations for ground level
stones must have sufficient width and length to allow for an exposed apron no
less than six inches wide, extending around the base of the stone, and the
apron must be ground level.
   (E)   Waiting period before erection of monuments. No grave marker or
monument may be erected on any lot in the town cemetery whereon a burial or
interment has occurred, until no fewer than 90 days have passed since the time
of the burial or interment.
   (F)   Disclaimer of liability. The town disclaims all loss or damage to lots
or gravestones from causes beyond its reasonable control.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-8) (Ord. passed 9-2-1997) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 TREES, SHRUBS, AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Permission required; town authority.
      (1)   No trees, plants, or shrubbery shall be planted on any lot without
permission of the town.
      (2)   The town shall have the authority to prune or remove any plant,
tree, or shrubbery when it is deemed in the best interest of maintaining the
beautification of the cemetery.
   (B)   Decorative objects. The placing of boxes, shells, toys, metal designs,
ornaments, chairs, settees, and similar articles will not be permitted, and if
so placed, the town reserves the right to remove them (including statuary),
except Memorial Day, when boxes, ornaments, and similar objects will be
allowed; however, they must be removed by dates set by the town.
   (C)   Liability. The town shall not be held liable for floral pieces,
baskets, frames, or other objects left on graves.
   (D)   Removal by town. The town shall have the authority to remove all
floral pieces, baskets, and similar objects as soon as, in the judgment of the
town, they become unsightly, dangerous, or detrimental.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-9) (Ord. passed 9-2-1997) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to scar, injure, deface,
mark, damage, or destroy any monument or property in any cemetery in the town
or in any cemetery which is the property of the town. It is unlawful and an
offense for any person to remove any flowers, trees, shrubs, or other plants or
in any manner injure or harm the same in the cemeteries.
   (B)   Any act committed within the town cemetery in violation of any
published rules and regulations of the Board of Trustees is an offense against
the town ordinances. Any act which is an offense as defined by the town
ordinances is an offense against the town when committed within the municipal
cemetery.
   (C)   Any person committing an offense as defined in this section or any
other provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished
accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-10) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 CONDUCT IN CEMETERIES.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Enter a cemetery except through established gates;
   (B)   Throw rubbish or debris on walks or drives or any part of cemetery
grounds;
   (C)   Pick or mutilate any flowers, either wild or domestic, or disturb any
trees, shrubs, or other plants;
   (D)   Consume alcoholic beverages within a cemetery or carry same on the
premises;
   (E)   Permit any dog to enter or remain in a cemetery; or
   (F)   Discharge any firearms or air rifles in or adjacent to a cemetery.
This regulation shall not apply to authorized volleys at burials.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-11) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 ADMITTANCE OF CHILDREN.
   No children shall enter a cemetery unless attended by adults responsible for
the children’s conduct.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-12) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All traffic laws of the town that are applicable to the operation of
vehicles in cemeteries shall be strictly observed. Persons driving in
cemeteries shall be responsible for any damage done by the vehicle or animal,
or both, in the driver’s charge.
   (B)   In addition, no person shall:
      (1)   Drive a vehicle in excess of 15 mph on any cemetery road;
      (2)   Drive off the established roads unless permission is given in
writing by the cemetery agent;
      (3)   Make a U-turn on cemetery roads; or
      (4)   Use a cemetery road as a public thoroughfare.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-13) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter by doing any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or
declared to be an offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who shall fail to do any
act required by any such provision, or who shall fail to do any act when an
ordinance provision declares such failure to be unlawful or to be an offense or
misdemeanor, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as provided in §
10.99. Each day upon which any such violation continues shall constitute a
separate misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-14)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Fair Housing Board
   
92.02   Prohibited acts
   
92.03   Exempted acts
   
92.04   Administration
   
92.05   Education and conciliation
   
92.06   Enforcement
   
92.07   Investigations; subpoenas; evidence
   
92.08   Enforcement by private persons
   
92.09   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
92.10   Separability
   
92.11   Prevention of intimidation
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 FAIR HOUSING BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Fair Housing Board for the town to assist in
the enforcement of all municipal fair housing regulations and ordinances.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees shall serve as the Fair Housing Board of
said community.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-1) (Ord. 175, passed 8-28-1987)
§ 92.02 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to:
   (A)   Refuse to sell, lease, rent, assign, or otherwise transfer the title
or other interest in any housing, or real property upon which residential
housing is to be constructed, to any person, or to discriminate in the terms or
conditions of the sale, rental, or leasing of any residential housing unit,
because of race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age, familial
status, or handicap;
   (B)   Refuse to negotiate with any person for the sale, rental, or leasing
of any residential property, or to represent that such property is not
available for inspection, sale, rental, or lease, when in fact it is so
available, because of such person’s race, color, religion, gender, national
origin, age, familial status, or handicap;
   (C)   Solicit or induce, or attempt to solicit or induce, any person owning
any interest in any residential housing to sell, rent, or lease such housing to
any person on the grounds of loss of value due to the present or prospective
entry into the neighborhood of a person or persons of another race, color,
religion, gender, national origin, age, familial status, or handicap, either by
direct solicitation or inducement, or by the purpose of such inducement, or to
distribute, or cause to be distributed, material or statements designed to
induce a residential property owner to sell or lease his or her property, due
to such change in the neighborhood; or
   (D)   File a complaint alleging a violation of this chapter, with knowledge
that such complaint is false in any material respect, or to file such complaint
for the sole purpose of harassment.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-2) (Ord. 175, passed 8-28-1987) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 EXEMPTED ACTS.
   Nothing herein shall apply to:
   (A)   Prohibit persons from giving preference to prospective buyers or
tenants for any reason other than race, color, religion, gender, national
origin, age, familial status, or handicap;
   (B)   The sale of a dwelling which is or was at the time when first offered
for sale the residence of its owner;
   (C)   The rental of rooms in an owner-occupied residence or in a dwelling
used exclusively as a rooming house;
   (D)   The rental or leasing of a housing unit in a building containing not
more than eight housing units; or
   (E)   The rental or leasing of a dwelling or housing unit owned by any
religious or fraternal organization, or private club used and occupied for such
organizational purposes.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-3) (Ord. 175, passed 8-28-1987)
§ 92.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Delegation of duties. The Mayor may delegate any of his or her
functions, duties, and powers to employees of the town or to boards of such
employees, including functions, duties, and powers with respect to
investigating, conciliating, hearing, determining, ordering, certifying,
reporting, or otherwise acting as to any work, business, or matter under this
process. The Mayor shall, by rule, prescribe such rights of appeal from the
decisions of his or her hearing examiners to other hearing examiners or to
other officers in the town, to boards of officers, or to himself or herself, as
shall be appropriate and in accordance with law.
   (B)   Administration of programs. All executive departments and agencies
shall administer their programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Mayor to further such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-4) (Ord. 175A, passed 7-7-1992)
§ 92.05 EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the enactment of this process, the Mayor shall commence
such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the purposes of
this chapter. He or she shall call conferences of persons in the housing
industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the provisions of
this chapter and his or her suggested means of implementing it, and shall
endeavor, with their advice, to work out programs of voluntary compliance and
of enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-5) (Ord. 175A, passed 7-7-1992)
§ 92.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Complaint; filing and investigation. Any person who claims to have
been injured by a discriminatory housing practice or who believes that he or
she will be irrevocably injured by a discriminatory housing practice that is
about to occur (hereafter “person aggrieved”) may file a complaint with the
Mayor, who shall furnish a copy of the same to the person or persons who
allegedly committed or are about to commit the alleged discriminatory housing
practice. Within 30 days after receiving a complaint, or within 30 days after
the expiration of any period of reference under division (C) below, the Mayor
shall investigate the complaint and give notice in writing to the person
aggrieved whether he or she intends to resolve it. If the Mayor decides to
resolve the complaints, he or she shall proceed to try to eliminate or correct
the alleged discriminatory housing practice by informal methods of conference,
conciliation, and persuasion. Nothing said nor done in the course of such
informal endeavors may be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent
proceeding under this chapter without the written consent of the person
concerned.
   (B)   Complaint procedure. A complaint under division (A) above shall be
filed within 180 days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice
occurred. Complaints shall be in writing and shall state the facts upon which
the allegations of a discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may
be reasonably and fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer
to the complaint against him or her and with the leave of the Mayor, which
shall be granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend
his or her answer at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (C)   Filing complaint with state. If, within 30 days after a complaint is
filed with the Mayor, the Mayor has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance
with this chapter, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days thereafter, file a
complaint with the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Department.
The Mayor will assist in this filing.
   (D)   Civil action. If the Mayor has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance within 30 days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within 30
days thereafter, commence a civil action in any appropriate court against the
respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected
by this chapter, insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint.
If the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is
about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from engaging in such
practice or order such affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   (E)   Burden of proof. In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section,
the burden of proof shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Trial. Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial,
the Mayor shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary
compliance.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-6) (Ord. 175A, passed 7-7-1992) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENAS; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   Conduct of investigation. In conducting investigation, the Mayor shall
have access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents,
individuals, and other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may
examine, record, and copy such materials and take and record the testimony or
statements of such persons as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of
the investigation; provided, however, that the Mayor first complies with the
provisions of the Fourth Amendment relating to unreasonable searches and
seizures. The Mayor may issue subpoenas to compel his or her access to or the
production of such materials, or the appearance of such persons, and may issue
interrogatories to a respondent, to the same extent and subject to the same
limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or
served in aid of a civil action in the United States District Court for the
district in which the investigation is taking place. The Mayor may administer
oaths.
   (B)   Subpoena from Mayor. Upon written application to the Mayor, a
respondent shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of
subpoenas by and in the name of the Mayor himself or herself. Subpoenas issued
at the request of a respondent shall show on their face the name and address of
such respondent and shall state that they were issued at his or her residence.
   (C)   Witness fees. Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the Mayor shall be
entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings
in United States District Courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a
subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall be paid by him or her.
   (D)   Modification of subpoena. Within five days after service of a subpoena
upon any person, such person may petition the Mayor to revoke or modify the
subpoena. The Mayor shall grant the petition if he or she finds that the
subpoena requires appearance or attendance at an unreasonable time or place,
that it requires production of evidence which does not relate to any matter
under investigation, that it does not describe with sufficient particularity
the evidence to be produced, that compliance would be unduly onerous, or for
other good reason.
   (E)   Refusal to obey. In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena,
the Mayor or other person at whose request it was issued may petition for its
enforcement in the municipal or state court for the district in which the
person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served, or transacts
business.
   (F)   Duty of Attorney. The Town Attorney shall conduct all litigation in
which the Mayor participates as a party or as amicus pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-7) (Ord. 175A, passed 7-7-1992) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   Civil action. The rights granted by §§
92.02 and
92.03 will be enforced by the town. A civil action shall be commenced within
180 days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred; provided,
however, that the court shall continue such civil case brought pursuant to this
section from time to time before bringing it to trial if the court believes
that the conciliation efforts of the Mayor are likely to result in satisfactory
settlement of the discriminatory housing practice complained of in the
complaint made to the Mayor and which practice forms the basis for action in
court; and provided, however, that any sale, encumbrance, or rental consummated
prior to the issuance of any court order issued under the authority of this
process, and involving a bona fide purchaser, encumbrancer, or tenant without
actual notice of the existence of the filing of a complaint or civil action
under the provision of this process, shall not be affected.
   (B)   Relief and award from court. The court may grant as relief, as it
deems appropriate, any permanent or temporary injunction, temporary restraining
order, or other order, and may award to the plaintiff actual damages and not
more than $1,000 punitive damages, together with court costs and reasonable
attorney fees in the case of a prevailing plaintiff; provided, that the said
plaintiff in the opinion of the court is not financially able to assume said
attorney fees.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-8) (Ord. 175A, passed 7-7-1992)
§ 92.09 INTERFERENCES, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
92.02 or
92.03. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-9) (Ord. 175A, passed 7-7-1992) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10 SEPARABILITY.
   If any provision of this process or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of the monitoring process and the
application of the provision to other persons not similarly situated or to
other circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-10) (Ord. 175A, passed 7-7-1992)
§ 92.11 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under the color of law, by force or threat of
force, willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with, the following shall commit an offense:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, gender,
national origin, age, familial status, or handicap and because he or she is or
has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, gender, national origin, age, familial status, or handicap, in any of
the activities, services, organizations, or facilities; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from, lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age, familial status, or
handicap, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or facilities
described in division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or
peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity to so participate.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-11) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any employee of the Mayor who shall make public any information on the
violation of §
92.06(A) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-6)
   (C)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or to
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents, or other evidence,
if in his or her power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order
of the Mayor, as in §
92.07, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one
year, or both. Any person who, with intent thereby to mislead the Mayor, shall
make or cause to be made any false entry or statement of fact in any report,
account, record, or other document submitted to the Mayor pursuant to his or
her subpoena or other order, or shall willfully neglect or fail to make or
cause to be made full, true, and correct entries in such reports, accounts,
records, or other documents, or shall willfully mutilate, alter, or by any
other means falsify any documentary evidence, shall be fined not more than
$1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year, or both.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-7)
   (D)   Whoever commits an offense under §
92.11 shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not more than one
year, or both; and if bodily injury results, shall be fined not more than
$10,000, or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results,
shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-11)
(Ord. 175A, passed 7-7-1992)
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.001   Enforcement by County Health Department
   
93.002   Obstructing health officer
   
93.003   Quarantine; violations
   
93.004   Dilapidated buildings
   
93.005   Junked motor vehicles
Weeds and Trash
   
93.020   Definitions
   
93.021   Accumulation of trash or weeds
   
93.022   Report of accumulation
   
93.023   Abatement procedures
   
93.024   Depositing rubbish
   
93.025   Removal of dead animals
   
93.026   Littering
   
93.027   Accumulation of litter
   
93.028   Administrative fees
Nuisances
   
93.040   Nuisances defined
   
93.041   Nuisance unlawful
   
93.042   Certain public nuisances designated
   
93.043   Persons responsible
   
93.044   Time does not legalize
   
93.045   Remedies against public nuisances
   
93.046   Remedies against private nuisances
   
93.047   Summary abatement
   
93.048   Abatement by suit in District Court
   
93.049   Health nuisances
   
93.050   Procedure cumulative
Open Burning
   
93.065   Purpose
   
93.066   Definitions
   
93.067   Administrative agency
   
93.068   Salvage operations
   
93.069   Open burning permitted; conditions
Methamphetamine Lab Cleanup
   
93.080   Purpose and scope
   
93.081   Report of methamphetamine activity
   
93.082   Prohibition on occupancy
   
93.083   Public notice of contamination
   
93.084   Assessment and remediation
   
93.085   Acceptable levels
   
93.086   Cleanup and safety standards
   
93.087   Final report
 
   
93.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 93.001 ENFORCEMENT BY COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Anywhere in this chapter where the word or words HEALTH OFFICER are
used, it shall be construed to mean the Director of the County Health
Department or his or her duly designated representative.
   (B)   It is the intent and purpose of the Mayor and Town Board of Trustees
to delegate the enforcement of the health ordinances of the town as set out in
this section, and any such decisions rendered under this section shall be
subject to review by the governing board upon an appeal from an offender.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 93.002 OBSTRUCTING HEALTH OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully obstruct or interfere with any
health officer or physician charged with the enforcement of the health laws of
the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.003 QUARANTINE; VIOLATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully violate or refuse or omit to
comply with any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule, or regulation of
the Board of Health or any officer charged with enforcement of such order,
direction, prohibition, rule, or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.004 DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DILAPIDATED BUILDING.
         (a)   A structure which, through neglect or injury, lacks necessary
repairs or otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin to such extent that
the structure is a hazard to the health, safety, or welfare of the general
public;
         (b)   A structure which is unfit for human occupancy due to the lack
of necessary repairs and is considered uninhabitable or is a hazard to the
health, safety, and welfare of the general public;
         (c)   A structure which is determined by the Town Board or
administrative officer to be an unsecured building more than three times within
any 12-month period;
         (d)   A structure which has been boarded and secured for more than 18
consecutive months; or
         (e)   A structure declared by the Town Board to constitute a public
nuisance.
      OWNER. The owner or record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
County Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1)
   (B)   Abatement procedures.
      (1)   The Town Board may cause dilapidated buildings within the town
limits to be torn down and removed in accordance with the following procedures.
         (a)   At least ten days’ notice that a building is to be torn down or
removed shall be given to the owner of the property before the Town Board holds
a hearing. A copy of the notice shall be posted on the property to be affected.
In addition, a copy of the notice shall be sent by mail to the property owner
at the address shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the office of the
County Treasurer. Written notice shall also be mailed to any mortgage holder as
shown by the records in the office of the County Clerk to the last known
address of the mortgagee. At the time of mailing of notice to any property
owner or mortgage holder, the town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the
postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name
and address of the mailee. However, if neither the property owner nor mortgage
holder can be located, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on
the property, or by publication. The notice may be published once not less than
ten days prior to any hearing or action by the town pursuant to the provisions
of this section.
         (b)   A hearing shall be held by the Town Board to determine if the
property is dilapidated and has become detrimental to the health, safety, or
welfare of the general public and the community, or if the property creates a
fire hazard which is dangerous to other property.
         (c)   Pursuant to a finding that the condition of the property
constitutes a detriment or a hazard and that the property would be benefitted
by the removal of such conditions, the Town Board may cause the dilapidated
building to be torn down and removed. The Town Board shall fix reasonable dates
for the commencement and completion of the work. The Town Clerk shall
immediately file a notice of dilapidation and lien with the County Clerk
describing the property, the findings of the municipality at the hearing, and
stating that the municipality claims a lien on the property for the destruction
and removal costs and that such costs are the personal obligation of the
property owner from and after the date of filing of the notice. The agents of
the municipality are granted the right of entry on the property for the
performance of the necessary duties as a governmental function of the
municipality if the work is not performed by the property owner within dates
fixed by the Town Board. Any action to challenge the order of the Town Board
shall be filed within 30 business days from the date of the order.
         (d)   The Town Board shall determine the actual cost of the
dismantling and removal of dilapidated buildings and any other expenses that
may be necessary in conjunction with the dismantling and removal of the
buildings, including the cost of notice and mailing. The Town Clerk shall
forward a statement of the actual cost attributable to the dismantling and
removal of the buildings and a demand for payment of such costs, by mail to the
property owner. In addition, a copy of the statement shall be mailed to any
mortgage holder at the address provided for in division (B)(1)(a) above. At the
time of mailing of the statement of costs to any property owner or mortgage
holder, the municipality shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal
service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and
address of the mailee. If a town dismantles or removes any dilapidated
buildings, the cost to the property owner shall not exceed the actual cost of
the labor, maintenance, and equipment required for the dismantling and removal
of the dilapidated buildings. If dismantling and removal of the dilapidated
buildings is done on a private contract basis, the contract shall be awarded to
the lowest and best bidder.
         (e)   When payment is made to the town for costs incurred, the Town
Clerk shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to the actual
cost of the dismantling and removal of the buildings is not made within six
months from the date of the mailing of the statement to the owner of such
property, the Town Clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of
the cost to the County Treasurer of the county in which the property is
located. Once certified to the County Treasurer, payment may only be made to
the County Treasurer except as otherwise provided for in this section. The
costs shall be levied on the property and collected by the County Treasurer as
are other taxes authorized by law. Until finally paid, the costs and the
interest thereon shall be the personal obligation of the property owner from
and after the date of the notice of dilapidation and lien is filed with the
County Clerk. In addition, the cost and the interest thereon shall be a lien
against the property from the date the notice of the lien is filed with the
County Clerk. The lien shall be coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and
all other taxes and special assessments and shall be prior and superior to all
other titles and liens against the property. The lien shall continue until the
cost is fully paid. At the time of collection, the County Treasurer shall
collect a fee of $5 for each parcel of property. The fee shall be deposited to
the credit of the General Fund of the county. If the County Treasurer and the
municipality agree that the County Treasurer is unable to collect the
assessment, the town may pursue a civil remedy for collection of the amount
owing and interest thereon including an action in personam against the property
owner and an action in rem to foreclose its lien against the property. A
mineral interest, if severed from the surface interest and not owned by the
surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax or judgment lien created
pursuant to this section. Upon receiving payment, the Town Clerk shall forward
to the County Treasurer a notice of such payment and shall direct discharge of
the lien.
      (2)   The town may designate an administrative officer to carry out the
duties of the Town Board specified in this section. The property owner shall
have the right of appeal to the Town Board from any order of the administrative
officer. Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with the
Town Clerk within ten days after the administrative order is rendered.
      (3)   Nothing in the provisions of this section shall prevent the town
from abating a dilapidated building as a nuisance or otherwise exercising its
police power to protect the health, safety, or welfare of the general public.
      (4)   The officers, employees, or agents of the town shall not be liable
for any damages or loss of property due to the removal of dilapidated buildings
performed pursuant to the provision of this section or as otherwise prescribed
by law.
      (5)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any property used
for agricultural purposes.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-2)
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 6-5-2012) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.005 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Nuisance declared. Motor vehicles which are abandoned, dismantled,
partially dismantled, wrecked, junked, inoperative, or discarded, or left about
the town in places other than authorized junkyards or other areas authorized by
the Town Board of Trustees and which tend to do any one or more of the
following are hereby declared a nuisance:
      (1)   Impede traffic in the streets;
      (2)   Reduce the value of private property;
      (3)   Create fire hazards;
      (4)   Extend and aggravate urban blight; or
      (5)   Result in a serious hazard to the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience, and welfare of the residents of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-1)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which does not have lawfully
affixed thereto both an unexpired license plate or plates and a current motor
vehicle safety inspection certificate, and the condition of which is wrecked,
dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperative, abandoned, or discarded.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to travel
along the ground and shall include, but not be limited to, automobiles, buses,
motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go carts, golf
carts, campers, and trailers.
      PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
or organization of any kind.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the town which is privately
owned and which is not public property as defined in this section.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street, alley, or highway which shall include the
entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly owned or
maintained for the purposes of vehicular travel, and shall also mean any other
publicly owned property or facility.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-2)
   (C)   Parking or leaving dismantled vehicles.
      (1)   Parking vehicle prohibited. No person shall park, store, leave, or
permit the parking, storing, or leaving of any junk motor vehicle or vehicle of
any kind which is in an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, junked, or
partially dismantled condition, whether attended or not, upon any public or
private property within the town for a period of time in excess of ten days.
      (2)   Public offense. The presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled,
inoperative, junked, or partially dismantled vehicle or parts thereof on
private or public property is hereby declared a public offense and misdemeanor.
      (3)   Removal of vehicle. After proper notice, the vehicle may be removed
by the town or its agents. Costs of removal and storage are chargeable against
the owner of the vehicle.
      (4)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to any vehicle enclosed
within a building on private property or to any vehicle held, stored, or parked
in connection with a business enterprise lawfully licensed by the town, nor
shall this section apply to a town-owned vehicle in an appropriate storage
place maintained in a lawful place by the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-3)
Penalty, see §
93.999
**** WEEDS AND TRASH ****
§ 93.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLEANING. The removal of trash and weeds from property.
   LITTERING. Throwing any trash, refuse, wastepaper, tin can, bottles, or any
other object or substance whatever upon the public streets, alleys, roadways,
and sidewalks of the town or upon any real property owned or occupied by
another.
   OWNER. The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
County Treasurer.
   TRASH. Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustibles,
rubbish, offal, or waste of any kind or form which is uncared for, discarded,
or abandoned.
   WEEDS.
      (1)   Includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak, or poison
sumac, and all vegetation at any state of maturity which:
         (a)   Exceeds 12 inches in height, except healthy trees, shrubs, or
products for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden, unless
such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute a detriment to
the health, benefit, and welfare of the public and community or a hazard to
traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise interfere with the
mowing of said WEEDS;
         (b)   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals, or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
         (c)   Harbors rodents or vermin;
         (d)   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
         (e)   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard;
         (f)   Is dead or deceased;
         (g)   Any adjoining statutory, dedicated, or accepted street right-of-
way;
         (h)   Any adjoining dedicated or accepted easement; or
         (i)   Any adjoining dedicated or accepted alleyway.
      (2)   The term WEED shall not include tended crops on land designated for
agricultural use which are planted more than 150 feet from a parcel zoned for
other than agricultural use.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1) (Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-5-2012)
§ 93.021 ACCUMULATION OF TRASH OR WEEDS.
   It is unlawful to allow the accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds
upon any property to include adjoining alleyways, street rights-of-way, or
easements in the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-2) (Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-5-2012) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.022 REPORT OF ACCUMULATION.
   Any person, officer, or employee of the town who discovers an accumulation
of trash or the growth of grass and weeds, or both these conditions, upon
premises within the limits of the town, to include adjoining alleyways, street
rights-of-way, or easements, shall report the condition to the Town Clerk if,
as a result of the accumulation or growth, the premises appear to be:
   (A)   Detrimental to the health, benefit, and welfare of the public and the
community;
   (B)   A hazard to traffic;
   (C)   A fire hazard to property; or
   (D)   Any two or more of these conditions.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-3) (Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-5-2012)
§ 93.023 ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Town Board may cause property within the town limits to be cleaned
of trash and weeds or grass to be cut or mowed in accordance with the following
procedure.
      (1)   At least ten days’ notice shall be given to the owner of the
property by mail at the address shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the
County Treasurer’s office or posted on property, or handed to owner, occupant,
owner’s agent, or property manager, before the Town Board holds a hearing or
takes action. The notice shall order the property owner to clean the property
of trash, or to cut or mow the weeds or grass on the property, as appropriate,
and said notice shall further state that unless such work is performed within
ten days of the date of the notice, the work shall be done by the town and a
notice of lien shall be filed with the County Clerk against the property for
the costs due and owing the town. At the time of the mailing of notice to the
property owner, the town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal
service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and
address of the mailee. However, if the property owner cannot be located within
ten days from the date of mailing, notice may be given by posting a copy of the
notice on the property or by publication, as defined in 11 O.S. § 1-102, one
time not less than ten days prior to any hearing or action by the town. If the
Town Board anticipates summary abatement of a nuisance in accordance with the
provisions of division (A)(4) below, the notice, whether by mail, posting, or
publication, shall state:
         (a)   Any accumulation of trash or excessive weed or grass growth on
the owner’s property occurring within six months from and after the date of
this notice may be summarily abated by the Town Board;
         (b)   The costs of such abatement shall be assessed against the owner;
and
         (c)   A lien may be imposed on the property to secure such payment,
all without further prior notice to the property owner.
      (2)   The owner of the property may give his or her written consent to
the town authorizing the removal of the trash or the mowing of the weeds or
grass, consenting to the payment of the actual cost of such removal as proved
by an estimate provided by the town. By giving said written consent, the owner
waives his or her right to a hearing by the town.
      (3)   A hearing may be held by the Town Board to determine whether the
accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds or grass has caused the property
to become detrimental to the health, benefit, and welfare of the public and the
community or a hazard to traffic, or creates a fire hazard to the danger of
property.
      (4)   Upon a finding that the condition of the property constitutes a
detriment or hazard, and that the property will be benefitted by the removal of
such conditions, the agents of the town are granted the right of entry on the
property for the removal of trash, mowing of weeds or grass, and performance of
such necessary duties as a governmental function of the town. Immediately
following the cleaning or mowing of the property, the Town Clerk shall file a
notice of lien with the County Clerk describing the property and the work
performed by the town, and stating that the town claims a lien on said property
for the cleaning or mowing costs.
      (5)   The Town Board shall determine the actual cost of such cleaning and
mowing and any other expenses as may be necessary in connection therewith,
including the cost of notice and mailing. The Town Clerk shall forward, by
mail, to the owner as specified in division (A)(1) above, a statement of such
actual cost and demanding payment. If the cleaning and mowing are done by the
town, the cost to the owner for said cleaning and mowing shall not exceed the
actual cost of the labor, maintenance, and equipment required. If the cleaning
and mowing are done on a private contract basis, the contract shall be awarded
to the lowest and best bidder.
      (6)   If payment is not made within 30 days from the date of the mailing
of the statement, then within the next 60 days, the Town Clerk shall forward a
certified statement of the amount of the cost to the County Treasurer of the
county in which the property is located and the same shall be levied on the
property and collected by the County Treasurer as other taxes authorized by
law. Once certified by the County Treasurer, payment may only be made to the
County Treasurer except as otherwise provided for in this section. Until fully
paid, the cost and the interest thereon shall be the personal obligation of the
property owner from and after the date the cost is certified to the County
Treasurer. In addition, the cost and the interest thereon shall be a lien
against the property from the date the cost is certified to the County
Treasurer, coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and
special assessments and prior and superior to all other titles and liens
against the property and the lien shall continue until the cost shall be fully
paid. At the time of collection the County Treasurer shall collect a fee of $5
for each parcel of property. The fee shall be deposited to the credit of the
General Fund of the county. If the County Treasurer and the town agree that the
County Treasurer is unable to collect the assessment, the town may pursue a
civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest thereon by an
action in person against the property owner and an action in rem to foreclose
its lien against the property. A mineral interest, if severed from the surface
interest, and not owned by the surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax
or judgment lien created pursuant to this section. Upon receiving payment, if
any, the Town Clerk shall forward to the County Treasurer a notice of such
payment and directing discharge of the lien.
      (7)   The Town Board may designate an administrative officer to carry out
the duties of the Town Board in this section. The property owner shall have a
right of appeal to the Town Board from any order of the administrative officer.
Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with the Town
Clerk within ten days after the administrative order is rendered.
   (B)   If a notice is given by the Town Board to a property owner ordering
the property within the town limits to be cleaned of trash and weeds or grass
to be cut or mowed in accordance with the procedures provided in division (A)
above, any subsequent accumulations of trash or excessive weed or grass growth
on the property occurring within a six-month period may be declared to be a
nuisance and may be summarily abated without further prior notice to the
property owner. At the time of each such summary abatement, the town shall
notify the property owner of the abatement and the costs thereof. The notice
shall state that the property owner may request a hearing within ten days after
the date of mailing the notice. The notice and hearing shall be as provided for
in division (A) above. Unless otherwise determined at the hearing, the cost of
such abatement shall be determined and collected as provided for in divisions
(A)(5) and (A)(6) above. This division (B) shall not apply if the records of
the County Clerk show that the property was transferred after notice was given
pursuant to division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-4) (Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-5-2012)
§ 93.024 DEPOSITING RUBBISH.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, place, or deposit any rubbish,
trash, slop, garbage, filthy substance, grass, weeds, trees, brush, or any
other refuse or waste matter in any street, avenue, alley, or in any ditch or
watercourse, or upon the premises of another, or upon any public ground in the
town.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-5) (Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-5-2012) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.025 REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   The owner or any person having charge of any animal dying in the town shall,
within 24 hours after the death of such animal, remove its carcass, and failure
to do so shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-6) (Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-5-2012) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.026 LITTERING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to litter.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to throw from any automobile or motor
vehicle being operated and driven upon and over the streets, alleys, and
roadways of the town any litter, trash, wastepaper, tin cans, or any other
substance or refuse whatever.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-7) (Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-5-2012) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.027 ACCUMULATION OF LITTER.
   (A)   Accumulation unlawful. It is unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation, occupying any real property, either as tenant or owner, to allow
trash, wastepaper, litter objects, bottles, tin cans, or any other used or
disposed of objects to accumulate upon such real property or premises being so
occupied or rented to such an extent as to constitute a littering nuisance.
   (B)   Litter carried to other premises. It is unlawful for any person, firm,
or corporation occupying any real property, either as tenant or owner, to allow
accumulated trash, wastepaper, litter objects, bottles, tin cans, or any other
used or disposed of objects to be carried from the occupied premises, either by
the wind, elements, or otherwise to any adjoining or other real estate not so
owned or occupied by the offender.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-8) (Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-5-2012) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.028 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.
   In addition to penalties provided in §
93.999, an administrative fee of $200 shall be charged and assessed against the
owner. An additional fee of $100 shall be charged and assessed against the
owner if the property has been previously abated. The fee shall be in addition
to all costs incurred for abatement.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-10) (Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-5-2012)
**** NUISANCES ****
§ 93.040 NUISANCES DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. Unlawfully doing an act or omitting to perform a duty, or is any
thing or condition which either:
      (1)   Annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or
safety of others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any lake or navigable river, stream, canal, or
basin, or any public park, square, street, or other public property; or
      (4)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   PRIVATE NUISANCE. Every nuisance not included in the definition of “public
nuisance” herein.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. One which affects at the same time an entire community or
neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, although the extent of the
annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be unequal.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1)
§ 93.041 NUISANCE UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person, including, but not limited to, any owner,
lessee, or other person, to create or maintain a nuisance within the town or to
permit a nuisance to remain on premises under his or her control within the
town.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-2) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.042 CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES DESIGNATED.
   (A)   In addition to other public nuisances declared by other sections of
this code or law, the following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   The sale or offering for sale of unwholesome food or drink, or the
keeping of a place where such sales or offerings are made;
      (2)   The sale, offering for sale, or furnishing of intoxicating liquor
in violation of the state law or ordinances of the town, or keeping of a place
where intoxicating liquor is sold, offered for sale, or furnished in violation
of the state law or ordinances of the town;
      (3)   The exposure, display, sale, or distribution of obscene pictures,
books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents, or objects, or the keeping of a
place where such are exposed, displayed, sold, or distributed;
      (4)   The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by cards, slot
machines, punch boards, or otherwise;
      (5)   The keeping of a place where prostitution, illicit sexual
intercourse, or other immoral acts are practiced;
      (6)   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of state law
or ordinance are practiced or carried on;
      (7)   The conduct or holding of public dances in violation of the
ordinances of the town, or the keeping of a place where such dances are held;
      (8)   The public exposure of a person having a contagious disease;
      (9)   The continued making of loud or unusual noises which annoy persons
of ordinary sensibilities, or the keeping of an animal which makes such noises;
      (10)   The operation or use of any electrical apparatus or machine which
materially or unduly interferes with radio or television reception by others;
      (11)   Any use of a street or sidewalk or a place adjacent thereto which
causes crowds of people to gather so as to obstruct traffic on such street or
sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs traffic thereon, except as may be
authorized by law or ordinance;
      (12)   Permitting water or other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow
to fall, from any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk;
      (13)   All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies, or containers of water in
which mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which are so constructed,
formed, conditioned, or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      (14)   Rank weeds or grass, carcasses, accumulations of manure, refuse,
or other things which are, or are likely to be, breeding places for flies,
mosquitoes, vermin, or disease germs, and the premises on which such exist;
      (15)   Any building or structure which is dangerous to the public health
or safety because of damage, decay, or other condition;
      (16)   Any pit, hole, or other thing which is so constructed, formed,
conditioned, or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      (17)   Any fire or explosion hazard which endangers the public safety;
      (18)   Any occupation or activity which endangers the public peace,
health, morals, safety, or welfare;
      (19)   Any motor vehicle (whether in operating condition or not) or any
trailer without a current vehicle plate as required by law for vehicles used on
the public highways, when stored or kept in a Residence District; or
      (20)   Any stable or other place where animals are kept that may become
obnoxious or annoying to any resident of the town, by reason of any noise or
noises made by the animal therein, or by reason of lack of sanitation, is
hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   The enumeration of certain public nuisances in division (A) above
shall be cumulative and not limit other provisions of law or ordinances
defining public or private nuisances either in more general or more specific
terms.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-3) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.043 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE.
   Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing
nuisance upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is
liable therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-4)
§ 93.044 TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE.
   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-5)
§ 93.045 REMEDIES AGAINST PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   The remedies against a public nuisance are:
   (A)   Prosecution on complaint before the Municipal Court;
   (B)   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
   (C)   Civil action; or
   (D)   Abatement:
      (1)   By person injured as provided in 50 O.S. § 12; or
      (2)   By the town in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-6)
§ 93.046 REMEDIES AGAINST PRIVATE NUISANCES.
   The remedies against a private nuisance are:
   (A)   Civil action; or
   (B)   Abatement:
      (1)   By person injured in 50 O.S. §§ 14 and 15; or
      (2)   By the town in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-7)
§ 93.047 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Power to abate. As provided in 50 O.S. § 16, the town has power to
determine what is and what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate
limits and, for the protection of the public health, the public parks and the
public water supply, outside of its corporate limits. Whenever it is practical
to do so, the town has the power summarily to abate any such nuisance after
notice to the owner and an opportunity for him or her to be heard, if this can
be done.
   (B)   Summary abatement. Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute
a grave and immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals, or welfare
of one or more persons or of the public generally. It is recognized that
circumstances may be such as to justify, and even to require, the Mayor or
other appropriate officer or agency of the town government to take immediate
and proper action summarily to abate such nuisances, or to reduce or suspend
the danger until more deliberate action can be taken toward such abatement.
   (C)   Statement and request for abatement. The Chief of the Fire Department,
the Chief of Police, the Town Attorney, the Building Inspector, the Plumbing
Inspector, or any other officer subordinate to the Mayor may submit through or
with the consent of the Mayor to the Town Board of Trustees a statement as to
the existence of a nuisance as defined by the ordinances of the town or law,
and a request or recommendation that it be abated. The Mayor himself or
herself, the Health Officer and Board of Trustees, or any resident or residents
of the town may submit such a statement and request a recommendation to the
Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Hearing. The Board of Trustees shall determine whether or not the
alleged nuisance is a nuisance in fact. For the purpose of gathering evidence
on the subject, the Board of Trustees shall have power to subpoena and examine
witnesses, books, papers, and other effects. Before proceeding to abate the
nuisance or have it abated, the Board of Trustees shall give notice of a
hearing on the proposed abatement to the owner of any property concerned and an
adequate opportunity to be heard, if such notice and opportunity for a hearing
can be given. Such notice to the owner and other persons concerned shall be
given in writing by mail or by service by a police officer if their names and
addresses are known; but, if the names or addresses are not known, and the
peace, health, safety, morals, or welfare of the person or persons or public
adversely affected would not be unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay, a
notice of the hearing shall be published in a paper of general circulation
within the town.
   (E)   Order to abate; cost.
      (1)   If the Board of Trustees finds that a nuisance does in fact exist,
it shall direct the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the
nuisance to abate it within a specified time if the peace, health, safety,
morals, or welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would
not be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if the owner or other
persons responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate it within the
specified time, the Board of Trustees shall direct the Mayor to abate the
nuisance or to have it abated, if summary abatement is practical, as authorized
by 50 O.S. § 16.
      (2)   The Town Clerk shall send a statement of the cost of such summary
abatement to the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the
nuisance, as may be just under the circumstances, if their names and addresses
are known. Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the town
collectible as other debts to the town may be collected.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-8)
§ 93.048 ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT.
   In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance, the
town may bring suit in the District Court of the county where the nuisance is
located, as provided in 50 O.S. § 17.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-9)
§ 93.049 HEALTH NUISANCES.
   (A)   Authority to abate. Pursuant to authority granted by 63 O.S. § 1-1011,
the Health Officer shall have authority to order the owner or occupant of any
private premises in the town to remove from such premises, at his or her own
expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to the
breeding of insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of
disease, or any other condition adversely affecting the public health, within
24 hours, or within such other time as may be directed in writing and may be
served personally on the owner or occupant of the premises, or authorized agent
thereof, by the Health Officer or by a police officer or a copy thereof may be
left at the last usual place of abode of the owner, occupant, or agent, if
known and within the state. If the premises is unoccupied and the residence of
the owner, occupant, or agent is unknown, or is without the state, the order
may be served by posting a copy thereof on the premises or by publication in at
least one issue of a newspaper having a general circulation in the town.
   (B)   Failure to comply. If the order is not complied with, the Health
Officer may cause the order to be executed and complied with and the cost
thereof shall be certified to the Town Clerk, and the cost of removing or
abating such nuisance shall be added to the water bill or other town utility
bill of the owner or occupant if he or she is a user of water from the town
water system or such other utility service. The cost shall be treated as a part
of such utility bill to which it is added and shall become due and payable, and
subject to the same regulations relating to delinquency in payment as the
utility bill itself. If such owner or occupant is not a user of any town
utility service, such cost, after certification to the Town Clerk, may be
collected in any manner in which any other debt due the town may be collected.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-10)
§ 93.050 PROCEDURE CUMULATIVE.
   The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this subchapter
and by other provisions of law and ordinances shall be cumulative to any other
penalties or procedures authorized.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-11)
**** OPEN BURNING ****
§ 93.065 PURPOSE.
   It is the general intent and purpose of this subchapter to provide the means
to achieve and maintain atmospheric purity necessary for the protection and
enjoyment of human, plant, or animal life and property in this state,
consistent with and limited by generally accepted social standards and
requirements, desired employment and industrial development, area conditions,
and the availability of economic and feasible controls, and to comply with
state regulations.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1) (Ord. passed 1-7-1997)
§ 93.066 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR CONTAMINANTS. The presence in the outdoor atmosphere of fumes, aerosol,
mist, gas, smoke, vapor, particulate matter, or any combination thereof which
creates a condition of air pollution.
   AIR POLLUTION. The presence in the outdoor atmosphere of one or more air
contaminants in sufficient quantities and of such characteristics and duration
as tend to or may be injurious to human, plant, or animal life or to property,
or which interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property,
excluding, however, all conditions pertaining to employer-employee relations.
   BOARD. The State Board of Health.
   COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS. Any substance which will readily burn and shall
include those substances which, although generally considered incombustible,
are or may be included within the mass of the material burned or to be burned.
   COMMISSIONER. The State Commissioner of Health or his or her designated
representatives.
   COUNCIL. The Air Quality Council.
   DEPARTMENT. The State Department of Health or his or her designated
representatives.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Air Quality Division.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of combustible materials in such a manner that the
products of combustion are emitted directly to the outside atmosphere.
   OPEN PIT INCINERATOR. A device consisting of a pit (into which the material
to be combustive is placed) and nozzles, pipes, and other appurtenances
designed and arranged in a manner to deliver additional air and/or auxiliary
fuel to, or near, the zone of combustion so that theoretically complete
combustion is accomplished or approached.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, municipality, or
any other legal entity, or his, her, or their representative, agent, or
assigns.
   PRODUCTS OF COMBUSTION. All particulate and gaseous air contaminants emitted
as a result of the burning of refuse and combustible materials.
   REFUSE. Garbage, rubbish, and all other wastes generated by a trade,
business, industry, building operation, or household.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2) (Ord. passed 1-7-1997)
§ 93.067 ADMINISTRATIVE AGENCY.
   The Town Board of Trustees, its agents, and the State Department of Health
is hereby designated the administrative agency for this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-3)
§ 93.068 SALVAGE OPERATIONS.
   No person shall cause, suffer, allow, or permit open burning of combustible
material in connection with the salvage of motor vehicles, tires, oil, and
similar substances, containers, coated or painted wire and metals, and other
materials.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-4) (Ord. passed 1-7-1997) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.069 OPEN BURNING PERMITTED; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Burning permitted. The open burning of refuse and other combustible
material may be conducted as specified in divisions (B) through (D) below if no
public nuisance is or will be created and if the burning is not prohibited by,
and is conducted in compliance with, other applicable laws and ordinances.
   (B)   Liability; compliance with other laws. The authority to conduct open
burning under the provisions of this section does not exempt or excuse a person
from the consequences, damages, or injuries which may result from such conduct
nor does it excuse or exempt any person from complying with all applicable
laws, ordinances, rules, and orders of the town even though the open burning is
conducted in compliance with this section.
   (C)   Permitted conditions enumerated.
      (1)   Firefighter training. Fires set purposely for the instruction and
training of public and industrial firefighting personnel when authorized by the
municipality;
      (2)   Elimination of fire hazards. Fires set for the elimination of a
fire hazard which cannot be abated by any other means when authorized by the
town;
      (3)   Dangerous material. Fires set for the removal of dangerous or
hazardous material where there is no other practical or lawful method of
disposal upon approval of the Chief of Air Quality Services;
      (4)   Campfires. Campfires and other fires used solely for outdoor
noncommercial preparation of food; and
      (5)   Land clearing. The burning of trees, brush, grass, and other
vegetable matter in the clearing of land, right-of-way maintenance operations,
and agricultural crop burning if the following conditions are met.
         (a)   Prevailing winds at the time of the burning must be away from
any city or town, the ambient air of which may be affected by air contaminants
from the burning.
         (b)   The location of the burning must not be adjacent (500 feet
upwind) to an occupied residence other than those on which the burning is
conducted.
         (c)   Care must be used to minimize the amount of dirt on the material
being burned.
         (d)   Oils, rubber, and other similar materials which produce
unreasonable amounts of air contaminants may not be burned.
         (e)   The initial burning may begin only between three hours after
sunrise and three hours before sunset and additional fuel may not be
intentionally added to the fire at times outside the limits stated above.
         (f)   The burning must be controlled so that a traffic hazard is not
created as a result of the air contaminants being emitted.
   (D)   Domestic households. Where no collection and disposal service is
available, the burning of refuse and other combustible materials generated in
the operation of a domestic household is permitted if the following conditions
are met.
      (1)   The material to be burned must not be the combined waste from a
building designed to accommodate more than three such households.
      (2)   The burning must be conducted on the property on which the waste is
generated.
      (3)   The initial burning may begin only between three hours after
sunrise and three hours before sunset, and additional fuel may not be
intentionally added to the fire at times outside of the limits stated.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-5) (Ord. passed 1-7-1997) Penalty, see §
93.999
**** METHAMPHETAMINE LAB CLEANUP ****
§ 93.080 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect occupants of real
property from hazardous and contaminated living environments by requiring
owners of real property to remediate gross contamination of property caused by
methamphetamine activity prior to occupants pursuant to the standards described
in this subchapter.
   (B)   Although other types of synthetic drugs may be manufactured in
clandestine drug laboratories, this subchapter is specifically intended to
remediate the contamination and environmental dangers associated with
methamphetamine manufacturing, distribution, and/or usage.
(Prior Code, § 4-7-1) (Ord. 2011-1, passed 9-6-2011)
§ 93.081 REPORT OF METHAMPHETAMINE ACTIVITY.
   Upon discovery that an owner’s property is, or has been, the location for
any type of methamphetamine activity, including manufacturing, distribution,
and/or usage, an owner shall immediately report such activity to local law
enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 4-7-2) (Ord. 2011-1, passed 9-6-2011) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.082 PROHIBITION ON OCCUPANCY.
   Until a contractor experienced in hazardous waste removal and remediation,
as prescribed in this subchapter, assesses the contaminated property, cleans up
any contamination, and prepares a final report, as prescribed in this
subchapter, which shows that the levels of contamination in the property meet
the acceptable levels listed in §
93.085, use of the property for human habitation is prohibited. Additionally,
this prohibition shall apply to any mobile home relocated to the town, if not
owner-occupied, requiring the owner to provide a report as described herein
prior to occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 4-7-3) (Ord. 2011-1, passed 9-6-2011) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.083 PUBLIC NOTICE OF CONTAMINATION.
   Within two days of discovery, an owner shall display on the contaminated
structure(s) a notice to the public with the following information:
   (A)   The word “warning” in bold type;
   (B)   The address of the contaminated property or, if the property has
multiple structures upon it, the address of each contaminated structure;
   (C)   A statement that hazardous substances, toxic chemicals, or other waste
products may be present on the property; and
   (D)   A warning that any person who enters the structure(s) without
permission of the owner or law enforcement will have committed a trespass.
(Prior Code, § 4-7-4) (Ord. 2011-1, passed 10-1-2011) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.084 ASSESSMENT AND REMEDIATION.
   (A)   Upon discovery that an owner’s property is or has been the location
for any type of methamphetamine activity, including manufacturing and/or usage,
an owner, prior to occupancy of the property and after the removal of
methamphetamine manufacturing materials and equipment by law enforcement, shall
retain the services of a contractor who is experienced in hazardous waste
removal and remediation to assess the level of contamination within the
property and provide a written report documenting the level of contamination.
At a minimum, such contractor shall have completed 40 hours of hazardous waste
operation and emergency response training pursuant to 29 C.F.R. § 1910.120 and
shall have received certification pursuant to this training. The owner shall
obtain a copy of the contractor’s 29 C.F.R. § 1910.120 certification before
allowing the contractor to begin the assessment.
   (B)   If, upon the completion of the assessment, the contractor determines:
      (1)   The level of contamination does not exceed the acceptable
contamination levels, as defined in §
93.085, and then the owner shall require the contractor to prepare a final
report as prescribed in §
93.087. Once the final report is prepared and delivered to the owner, the owner
shall remove the notice to the public as described in §
93.083. A copy of the final report shall be delivered to the Police Chief and
Town Board. Upon receipt of the final report by the Police Chief, the real
property may be occupied; or
      (2)   The level of contamination exceeds the acceptable levels defined in
§
93.085, then the owner shall not allow use of the property for human habitation
until a contractor (who has completed 40 hours of hazardous waste operation and
emergency response training pursuant to 29 C.F.R. § 1910.120 and who has
received certification pursuant to this training) has cleaned up any
contamination and remediated the property according to the standards of §
93.086 and conducted another assessment which shows that contamination levels
are acceptable pursuant to §
93.085. Once the level of contamination meets the acceptable standards defined
in §
93.085, then the owner shall require the contractor to prepare a final report
as prescribed in §
93.087. Once the final report is prepared and delivered to the owner, the owner
shall remove the notice to the public as described in §
93.083. A copy of the final report shall be delivered to the Police Chief and
Town Board. Upon receipt of the final report by the Police Chief, the real
property may be occupied.
(Prior Code, § 4-7-5) (Ord. 2011-1, passed 9-6-2011)
§ 93.085 ACCEPTABLE LEVELS.
   (A)   The owner shall require the certified contractor to test the levels of
volatile organic compounds (VOCs), pH, mercury, lead, and methamphetamine in
both the initial assessment and the postremediation assessment.
   (B)   Acceptable levels for each are the following:
      (1)   VOCs: nine-tenths of a part per million or below;
      (2)   pH: surface level of seven or below;
      (3)   Mercury: three-tenths of a microgram per cubic meter of mercury in
air or below;
      (4)   Lead: 20 micrograms per square foot or below; and
      (5)   Methamphetamine: one-tenth of a microgram per 100 square
centimeters or below.
(Prior Code, § 4-7-6) (Ord. 2011-1, passed 9-6-2011) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.086 CLEANUP AND SAFETY STANDARDS.
   Contractors hired by an owner to engage in removal and remediation shall
conduct assessments and cleanup pursuant to the relevant standards and
guidelines proposed or adopted by the State Drug Enforcement Agency, the
Federal Drug Enforcement Agency, the State Department of Environmental Quality,
and the Environmental Protection Agency and shall follow safety procedures
mandated by the relevant federal and state agencies governing hazardous waste.
(Prior Code, § 4-7-7) (Ord. 2011-1, passed 9-6-2011) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.087 FINAL REPORT.
   (A)   All inspections and assessments conducted by a contractor during the
removal and remediation process shall be fully documented in writing. The
report shall include the dates that activities were performed and the names and
signatures of the people and/or companies who performed the activities. The
final report shall include any other types of relevant documentation,
including, but not limited to, photographs, video recordings, drawings, and
charts. Such additional documentation shall likewise be signed and dated. The
owner shall immediately provide a copy of the final report to the Police Chief
and Town Board upon receipt from the contractor.
   (B)   The final report, at a minimum, shall include:
      (1)   A case narrative, site description, and site assessment;
      (2)   Physical address of property, number, and type of structures on
property, and description of adjacent and/or surrounding properties;
      (3)   Law enforcement reports, documented observation, and preremediation
sampling results that provide information regarding the manufacturing method,
chemicals present, cooking areas, chemical storage areas, and observed areas of
contamination or waste disposal;
      (4)   Name of cleanup contractor(s) and the contractor’s qualifications,
experience, and copy(ies) of any certification(s);
      (5)   The signature of the contractor who prepared the report; and
      (6)   A copy of the contractor’s 29 C.F.R. § 1910.120 certification.
   (C)   Where property is remediated, final reports shall also include:
      (1)   Worker safety and health information;
      (2)   Decontamination and encapsulation procedures for each area that was
decontaminated; and
      (3)   Documentation that the structure was cleaned to acceptable levels,
including, but not limited to, the location and results of post-decontamination
samples, description of analytical methods used, and the location(s) of
laboratory(ies) used.
(Prior Code, § 4-7-8) (Ord. 2011-1, passed 9-6-2011)
§ 93.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
93.002 or
93.003, or any law or code adopted by reference in this chapter, is guilty of
an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99. In addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from continuing such
violations.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4)
   (C)   In addition to the abatement procedure set forth in §
93.004(B), any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of §
93.004 shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-3)
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of §
93.005, by doing any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or
declared to be an offense or misdemeanor thereby, is guilty of an offense and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99. Each day upon which any such violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-4)
   (E)   In addition to the abatement procedure set forth in §
93.023, any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of §§
93.020 through
93.028 shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-9)
   (F)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provisions of §§
93.065 through
93.069, or who violates, or refuses or neglects to carry out any reasonable
order made by the Board of Trustees, shall be punishable by a fine as set forth
in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-6)
   (G)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions
of §§
93.080 through
93.087 shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 4-7-9)
      (2)   Each day a violation of §§
93.080 through
93.087 continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense, punishable by
fine and costs as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 4-7-10)
(Ord. passed 1-7-1997; Ord. 2011-1, passed 9-6-2011; Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-5-
2012; Ord. 2012-2, passed 6-5-2012)
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Animals not to be at large
   
94.03   Turning animals at large prohibited
   
94.04   Pasturing in public areas illegal
   
94.05   Animals which disturb prohibited
   
94.06   Swine and livestock not to be kept within town; exceptions
   
94.07   Manure
   
94.08   Places to be kept clean
   
94.09   Health Officer to inspect
   
94.10   Kennels prohibited
   
94.11   Zoning ordinance to prevail
   
94.12   Dog licensing and tags
   
94.13   Cruelty to animals
Vaccination and Health
   
94.25   Dogs and cats to be vaccinated
   
94.26   Vicious dogs may be killed
   
94.27   Vicious dogs prohibited
   
94.28   Procedure for vicious dogs
   
94.29   When dogs constitute a nuisance
   
94.30   Nuisance dogs prohibited
   
94.31   Procedure for nuisance dogs
   
94.32   Dogs muzzled and cats confined
   
94.33   Rabies control and procedures
Animal Shelter
   
94.45   Animal shelter established
   
94.46   Animals to be impounded; entry on property
   
94.47   Impoundment; description, notice, disposition
   
94.48   Breaking pound
   
94.49   Fees for impounding
   
94.50   Reclamation of impounded animals
   
94.51   Disposition, sale of impounded animals
 
   
94.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat, hog, dog, cat,
rabbit, chicken, goose, duck, turkey, or other animal or fowl.
   AT LARGE.
      (1)   Not securely confined by a fence or other means on premises under
the control of, or occupied by, the owner; or
      (2)   Not under the control of the owner, a member of his or her
immediate family over 12 years of age, or an agent of the owner, by leash,
whether on the owner’s premises or not.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, or corporation owning, harboring, or keeping an
animal. The occupant of any premises on which a domesticated or tamed animal
remains, or to which it customarily returns, for a period of ten days or more,
shall be deemed to be HARBORING or KEEPING the animal.
   VICIOUS DOG. A dog which has bitten a human being two or more times, or
which attacks or barks or growls at and acts as if it intends to attack or
bite.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-1) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 94.02 ANIMALS NOT TO BE AT LARGE.
   (A)   No owner shall permit any animal, including fowl, owned, harbored, or
kept by him or her to be at large within the town, except a cat.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any animal, as provided in this section, to be at
large at any time within the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-2) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 TURNING ANIMALS AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to open any enclosure in which any animal is
confined as required by ordinance so as to turn the animal at large, or in any
manner to turn the animal at large.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-3) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 PASTURING IN PUBLIC AREAS ILLEGAL.
   It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine, or pasture any animal on
any public school ground or other public property, federal, state, town, or
other, on any railroad right-of-way, or on any property without the consent of
the person owning or controlling such property.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-4) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 ANIMALS WHICH DISTURB PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within the town any
dog or other animal who, by barking, howling, or otherwise, disturbs the peace
and quiet of any person.
   (B)   The keeping of such an animal is hereby declared a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-5) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 SWINE AND LIVESTOCK NOT TO BE KEPT WITHIN TOWN; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No livestock, including horses, donkeys, mules, cattle, sheep, goats,
poultry, swine, or other animals commonly known as livestock, shall be kept
within the town, except temporarily at a slaughterhouse awaiting slaughter, or
temporarily for show purposes.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any tract of land containing over one
acre in area.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-6) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 MANURE.
   Manure shall be hauled outside the town in a manner which does not
jeopardize the public health, or else shall be spread evenly upon the ground
and turned under at once or as soon as the weather permits.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-7) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 PLACES TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   Every place or building wherein an animal is kept or permitted to be shall
be maintained in clean and sanitary conditions, devoid of rodents and vermin,
and free from objectionable odors.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-8) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 HEALTH OFFICER TO INSPECT.
   The Health Officer or Police Chief, upon complaint of any person, shall
inspect any structure or place where an animal is kept, and may do so on his or
her own initiative. He or she may issue any such reasonable order as he or she
may deem necessary to the owner of the animal to cause the animal to be kept as
provided in this chapter or in a manner so as not to constitute a nuisance. He
or she may make a complaint before the Municipal Judge against any person for
violation of any provision of this chapter or of any such reasonable order, but
this procedure shall not abridge the right of others to make such complaint.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-9) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 94.10 KENNELS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep or maintain a dog kennel within the
town. For the purpose of this chapter, the word KENNEL is defined as any
premises upon which are kept three or more dogs. This section shall not apply
if the dogs are a litter of puppies less than 60 days old.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-10) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.11 ZONING ORDINANCE TO PREVAIL.
   In case of conflict between this chapter and the presence of any future
zoning ordinance, the provisions of the zoning ordinance shall prevail and
supersede the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-11) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 94.12 DOG LICENSING AND TAGS.
   (A)   Licensing and registration fees; exceptions. All dogs kept, harbored,
or maintained by their owners in the town shall be licensed and registered each
year, if over six months of age, or within 15 days after the dog is brought
into the town. Dog licenses shall be issued by the Town Clerk, upon submission
by the owner of a certificate of vaccination signed by a licensed veterinarian,
upon payment of a license tax as set by the Board. The owner shall state at the
time application is made for such license and upon printed forms provided for
such purpose, his or her name and address, and the name, breed, color, and sex
of each dog owned or kept by him or her and such other reasonable information
as the Town Clerk might request. The provisions of this section shall not be
intended to apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within the
town, nor to dogs kept in pet shops for sale, nor to dogs brought into the town
for the purpose of participating in any dog show, nor to “seeing eye dogs”
properly trained to assist blind persons, which dogs are actually being used by
blind persons for the purpose of aiding them in going from place to place.
(Prior Code, § 5-4C-1)
   (B)   Tags; issuance, display, and duplicate license certificate. Upon
payment of the license fee, the Clerk shall issue to the owner a license
certificate and a tag for each dog so licensed. Every owner shall be required
to provide each dog with a collar, to which the license tag must be affixed,
and shall see that the collar and tag are consistently worn by the dog. In case
a tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate will be issued by the Clerk upon proof
of a receipt showing the payment of the license fee for the current year and
the payment of a fee as set by the Board of Trustees for such duplicate. The
license shall expire one year from the date of issuance. Dog tags shall not be
transferable from one dog to another, and no refunds shall be made on any dog
license fees because of the death of the dog, or the owner’s leaving the town
before the expiration of the license period.
(Prior Code, § 5-4C-2)
   (C)   Tags; counterfeiting, place on other dogs. No persons shall
counterfeit or attempt to counterfeit any tag issued for a dog as provided in
this section, or take from any dog a tag legally placed upon it, or place such
tag upon a dog for which the tag was not specifically issued.
(Prior Code, § 5-4C-3)
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.13 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully, maliciously, or knowingly
treat an animal, bird, or fowl in a cruel or inhumane manner, or to knowingly
neglect an animal, bird, or fowl in a cruel or inhumane manner.
(Prior Code, § 5-4E-1)
   (B)   It is unlawful for a person willfully to poison any dog or other
animal except a noxious, nondomesticated animal, or knowingly to expose poison
so that the same may be taken by such animal.
(Prior Code, § 5-4E-2)
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to instigate or encourage a fight
between animals, or to encourage one animal to attack, pursue, or annoy another
animal except a noxious, nondomesticated animal, or to keep a house, pit, or
other place used for fights between animals.
(Prior Code, § 5-4E-3)
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
**** VACCINATION AND HEALTH ****
§ 94.25 DOGS AND CATS TO BE VACCINATED.
   The owner or keeper of any dog or cat of six months of age or older within
the town limits shall have the dog or cat vaccinated against rabies by a
licensed veterinarian every calendar year. Owners shall affix, or have affixed,
to the collar or harness of each vaccinated dog or cat a metal disk with
sufficient information thereon that the vaccination certificate covering the
animal may be readily traced.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-1) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.26 VICIOUS DOGS MAY BE KILLED.
   Any person may kill a dog in self-defense or in defense of another when the
dog, without undue provocation, bites him or her or the other, or attacks, or
attempts to bite or attack, him or her or the other in such manner that an
ordinarily prudent person would be led to believe that the person toward whom
the efforts of the dog are directed is about to be bitten or otherwise
physically harmed.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-2) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 94.27 VICIOUS DOGS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to harbor, keep, or have possession of any
vicious dog, as defined in §
94.01.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-3) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.28 PROCEDURE FOR VICIOUS DOGS.
   It is the duty of the Police Department or person authorized by the Board of
Trustees, on their own initiative or upon the verified complaint of any
citizen, to seize and impound any dog found by them to be vicious and in such
event to cause proceedings to be instituted in the Municipal Court against the
owner of such dog for the violation of this section. It is also the duty of the
Police Department, upon being notified that charges of harboring a vicious dog
are pending against any person in the Municipal Court to seize and impound the
dog described in such proceedings. If such seized and impounded dog shall have
bitten a human being two or more times before such seizure or impounding, then
the dog shall be destroyed as though it were a rabid dog. If the court fails to
find that the dog so seized and impounded is a vicious dog, then the court
shall order and it shall be the duty of the Police Department to cause a
surrender and return of the dog to the owner thereof. In the event that the dog
is found by the court to be a vicious dog, the court may order the Police
Department, or person designated, to destroy the vicious dog, or to otherwise
dispose of the dog, and the costs for impounding the dog shall be charged
against the owner as costs of court in the proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-4) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 94.29 WHEN DOGS CONSTITUTE A NUISANCE.
   Any dog which scratches or digs into any flowerbed, garden, tilled soil,
vines, shrubbery, or small plants, and in so doing injures the same, or which
habitually prowls around or over any premises, not the property of its owner,
to the annoyance of the owner or occupant of such premises, or which overturns
any garbage can or other vessel for waste products or scatters the contents of
same, or which chases or kills any chicken or other domestic fowl, is hereby
declared to be a nuisance. Nuisance shall also include any dog that barks
incessantly as determined by the Police Chief, Code Enforcement Officer or City
Manager.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-5) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010; Ord. 2025-03, passed 2-
11-2025) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.30 NUISANCE DOGS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to harbor, keep, or have possession of any dog
which is a nuisance, as described in §
94.29.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-6) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.31 PROCEDURE FOR NUISANCE DOGS.
   (A)   It is the duty of the Police Department or persons designated by the
Board of Trustees, upon being notified that any person claiming that a dog is a
nuisance within the meaning of this subchapter has filed a verified complaint
alleging that such dog is a nuisance as herein defined, to seize and impound
the dog therein described. If the court finds that no nuisance exists, it shall
order the dog to be surrendered to the owner or owners thereof. If the court
finds that the nuisance exists, it may order the dog destroyed as in the case
of a vicious dog, or otherwise dispose of the dog. However, if the owner of
such dog gives a good and sufficient bond in the sum of $254 with a surety to
be approved by the Judge of the Municipal Court conditioned that such owner
shall abate and prevent such nuisance the court shall order the return of such
dog to the owner thereof upon payment of the impounding fees herein specified.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit any dog to run or
be at large except as permitted under the town ordinances. No such dog shall be
returned to the owner if the same is a vicious dog or in any event unless the
same is vaccinated, registered, and licensed as required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-7) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 94.32 DOGS MUZZLED AND CATS CONFINED.
   (A)   When the Health Officer determines and certifies that a dog, cat, or
other animal in the town or within five miles of the town is or was infected
with rabies and that an epidemic of rabies threatens the town, the Board of
Trustees, by resolution, may order all dogs to be muzzled when at large within
the town, and if deemed desirable, all cats to be confined, during a period of
time to be determined by the Board of Trustees. Such resolution or an adequate
notice of its passage shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
within the town, or posted in at least five conspicuous places within the town,
and shall go into effect on the date following such publication or posting.
   (B)   While such resolution is in effect, it is unlawful for any owner to
permit an unmuzzled dog or a cat to be at large in violation of such
resolution, or for any such dog or a cat to be at large in violation thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-8) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.33 RABIES CONTROL AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Every animal that bites or scratches a person shall be reported within
four hours to the Police Department or the Animal Control Officer and shall
thereupon be securely quarantined at the animal shelter or a veterinary
hospital, all at the owner’s expense, for a period of ten days, and shall not
be released from such quarantine except by permission of the Health Officer of
the town and a licensed veterinarian chosen by the owner if the owner agrees to
pay for the quarantine in advance. Failure of the owner to quarantine his or
her animal will make him or her guilty of an offense.
   (B)   In the case of stray animals, or in the case of animals whose
ownership is not known, such quarantine shall be at the animal shelter.
   (C)   The owner, upon demand by an employee empowered to enforce this
chapter, shall forthwith surrender any animal that has bitten or scratched a
human.
   (D)   When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid, or
suspected by a licensed veterinarian as being rabid, and dies while under such
observation, the Animal Control Officer or veterinarian shall immediately send
the head of such animal to the State Health Department for pathological
examination, and shall notify the proper Public Health Officer of reports of
human contacts and diagnosis made of the suspected animal.
   (E)   When one or both reports give a positive diagnosis of rabies, the
Health Officer of the town may recommend a town-wide quarantine for a period of
six months, and upon the invoking of such quarantine, no animal shall be taken
into the streets or permitted to be in the streets during such period of
quarantine. During such quarantine, no animal shall be taken or shipped from
the town without written permission of the Health Officer of the town or the
Animal Control Officer.
   (F)   During such period of rabies quarantine as herein designated, every
animal bitten by an animal adjudged to be rabid shall be treated for such
rabies infection by a licensed veterinarian or held under six months’
quarantine by the owner in the same manner as other animals are quarantined.
   (G)   In the event there are additional positive cases of rabies occurring
during the period of the quarantine, such period of quarantine shall be
extended for an additional six months.
   (H)   No person shall kill, or cause to be killed, any rabid animal, any
animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or any animal biting or
scratching a human, except as herein provided, nor to remove same from the town
limits without written permission from the Health Officer of the town or the
Animal Control Officer.
   (I)   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall, upon demand,
be surrendered to the animal control officer.
   (J)   The animal control officer shall direct the disposition of any animal
found to be infected with rabies.
   (K)   No person shall fail or refuse to surrender any animal, for quarantine
or destruction as required herein when demand is made therefor by an employee
empowered to enforce this chapter. Such refusal shall be deemed an offense.
   (L)   It is the duty of every physician, veterinarian, or other practitioner
to report to the animal control officer the names and addresses of persons
treated for bites inflicted by animals, together with such other information as
will be helpful in rabies control.
   (M)   It is the duty of every licensed veterinarian to report to the town
animal control officer his or her diagnosis of any animal observed by him or
her to be a rabid suspect.
(Prior Code, § 5-4B-9) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
**** ANIMAL SHELTER ****
§ 94.45 ANIMAL SHELTER ESTABLISHED.
   A town animal shelter is hereby established. It shall be under the immediate
control of the animal control officer or of such other person as may be
officially designated. The person in charge of the shelter pound shall provide
proper sustenance for all animals impounded and shall treat them in a humane
manner; or, the town may contract with another agency for the use of a shelter
maintained by the agency.
(Prior Code, § 5-4D-1) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 94.46 ANIMALS TO BE IMPOUNDED; ENTRY ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   The animal control officer, a police officer, or such other officer or
employee of the town as the Town Board of Trustees shall authorize shall take
into custody and impound any animal found at large or in violation of any
provisions of the ordinances of the town.
   (B)   In taking an animal into custody under authority of this subchapter,
the animal control officer or other officer or employee may enter into private
property to gain custody of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 5-4D-2) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 94.47 IMPOUNDMENT; DESCRIPTION, NOTICE, DISPOSITION.
   (A)   The animal control officer, a police officer, or such other officer or
employee of the town, upon receiving any animal, shall make a complete
registry, entering the breed, color, and sex of such animal and whether or not
licensed, and the date of impoundment. If a dog is licensed, he or she shall
enter the name and address of the owner, and the number of the license tag.
   (B)   Not later than 48 hours after impounding any animal, the town shall
call the owner, if known, or mail notice at the address shown on town records,
if any, to notify them of the provisions of this code.
   (C)   It is the duty of the animal control officer to keep all animals
impounded for a period as follows: 72 hours for dogs or other animals.
   (D)   All inquiries concerning lost or impounded animals shall be directed
to the town offices, and after an animal has been destroyed, the designated
person shall be required to dispose of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 5-4D-3) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 94.48 BREAKING POUND.
   No unauthorized person shall:
   (A)   Break or attempt to break open the pound, or take or let out any
animal therefrom;
   (B)   Take or attempt to take from any officer or employee of the town any
animal taken into custody as provided by this chapter; or
   (C)   In any manner interfere with or hinder an officer or employee in the
discharge of his or her duties relating to the taking into custody and
impounding of animals as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-4D-4) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.49 FEES FOR IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   The Town Board, by motion or resolution, shall determine the fees to
be charged for impounding and keeping animals, but in no case shall the fees be
less than is charged by a contracting agency.
   (B)   Any person redeeming an impounded animal shall pay the required fees
to the Town Clerk and/or impounding agency, and present his or her receipt
therefor to the person in charge of the pound before the latter releases the
animal.
(Prior Code, § 5-4D-5) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 94.50 RECLAMATION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   Reclamation of impounded animals may be made as provided in this section.
The party desiring to reclaim an animal shall present to the animal control
officer or other employee, who may be designated by the Town Board of Trustees,
proof of ownership, and proof that any dog or cat is currently vaccinated for
rabies. The party desiring to reclaim any animal shall pay the applicable pound
fee and show evidence to the animal control officer that the fee has been paid.
The animal control officer shall thereupon release the reclaimed animal to the
party.
(Prior Code, § 5-4D-6) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.51 DISPOSITION, SALE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   At the end of the period prescribed in this subchapter, animals that
have not been redeemed by the owner thereof shall be destroyed in a humane
manner or sold in the manner hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The sales herein provided for shall be conducted by the person in
charge of the animal shelter or such other persons as may be designated by the
Town Board of Trustees. Such sales shall be for cash to the highest bidder, but
the animals shall not be sold in any event for less than that sum required to
cover the impounding fee, board bill, vaccination, and license fees, where
applicable. If there is no bid or an insufficient amount is bid as herein
provided, the person in charge of the pound shall destroy such animal, unless
he or she believes it to be for the best interests of the town to retain the
animal and offer it for sale again. The proceeds of the sale, less the
vaccination fees which shall be paid to the person administering the
vaccination, shall be forthwith delivered to the Town Clerk.
   (C)   The purchaser of an animal at a sale held as provided herein shall
acquire absolute title to the animal purchased.
(Prior Code, § 5-4D-7) (Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter, or who violates, or refuses, or neglects to carry out any reasonable
order made pursuant to this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished
by a fine not to exceed $200, and court cost of $54 ($25 to town, $9 to CLEET,
$5 to AFIS, $5 forensic OSBI fees, and $10 to Police Capital Improvement Fund).
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-12)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §
94.50 shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 5-4D-6)
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-5-2010)
CHAPTER 95: TOBACCO POLICIES
Section
Usage on Government Property
   
95.01   Statutory construction; compliance with state law
   
95.02   Findings
   
95.03   Definitions
   
95.04   Prohibited conduct
   
95.05   Required signs
Worksite Policy for Municipal Property
   
95.20   Definitions
   
95.21   Tobacco-free and vapor-free
   
95.22   General statement of policy
Tobacco-Free Policy on Organization Property
   
95.35   Prohibition
 
   
95.99   Penalty
USAGE ON GOVERNMENT PROPERTY
§ 95.01 STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION; COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   It is the intent of the Town Board to supplement applicable state and
federal law and not to duplicate or contradict such law. The provisions of this
subchapter are severable, and the invalidity of any provision of the ordinance
shall not affect other provisions of the subchapter, which can be given effect
without the invalid provision.
(Ord. 12-09-2025-02, passed 12-9-2025)
§ 95.02 FINDINGS.
   The Town Board hereby finds and declares as follows.
   (A)   Eighteen and nine-tenths percent of adults in Oklahoma smoke.
   (B)   Tobacco use is the leading preventable cause of death, killing more
than 7,500 Oklahomans every year.
   (C)   Tobacco use can cause disease in nearly all organ systems, and is
responsible for 87% of lung cancer deaths, 79% of all chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease deaths, and 32% of coronary heart disease deaths.
   (D)   Studies show separate smoking areas or rooms, air filters, and
ventilation systems are insufficient to protect nonsmokers from secondhand
smoke indoors.
   (E)   According to the United States Surgeon General, there is no risk-free
level of exposure to secondhand smoke.
   (F)   Nearly 50,000 nonsmokers die each year in the United States as a
result of exposure to secondhand smoke.
   (G)   Using vapor products or smokeless tobacco products is not safe.
   (H)   Research has found that aerosol from vapor products contains chemicals
known to cause cancer, birth defects, or other reproductive harm and vapor
products may involuntarily expose children, youth, pregnant women, and other
bystanders to aerosolized nicotine.
   (I)   Smokeless tobacco use increases people’s risk of heart disease,
stroke, and cancer, specifically oral, esophageal, and pancreatic cancers, as
well as stillbirth and preterm delivery.
   (J)   Community policies that fail to prohibit the use of tobacco products
normalize tobacco use and make it more likely that people will use tobacco
products because they see others using tobacco.
   (K)   Tobacco use and exposure to secondhand smoke impose an enormous
economic burden upon the government, taxpayers, business owners, and
individuals through health care costs and lost productivity, as evidenced by
the $1.62 billion Oklahoma spends on smoking-related medical care and $2.1
billion in lost productivity.
   (L)   Lws restricting the use of tobacco products have demonstrated a high
return on investment.
   (M)   Eight nine and three-tenths percent of Oklahomans agree that all
workplaces in cities and towns should have smoke-free policies.
   (N)   Oklahoma state law prohibits smoking in most indoor workplaces.
   (O)   Oklahoma state law expressly permits municipalities to impose
additional regulations on smoking tobacco products on property owned or
operated by local governments.
   (P)   Oklahoma state law does not preempt local governments from regulating
the use of smokeless tobacco products and vapor products
(Ord. 12-09-2025-02, passed 12-9-2025)
§ 95.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   INDOOR AREA. Any enclosed area used or visited by employees or the public,
at all times, regardless of whether work is being performed. INDOOR AREA
includes work areas, employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms, classrooms,
employee cafeterias, hallways, any other spaces used or visited by employees,
as well as all space between a floor and ceiling that is predominantly or
totally enclosed by walls or windows, regardless of doors, doorways, open or
closed windows, stairways, or the like.
   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY. All buildings, indoor areas, and outdoor areas,
including but not limited to recreational areas, and other property, or
portions thereof, owned or operated by the Davenport, including but not limited
to vehicles and equipment owned by the municipality.
   OUTDOOR AREA. Any area that is not an indoor area, and includes outdoor
recreational areas.
   SMOKING. The carrying by a person of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe, or
other lighted smoking device.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
consumption. TOBACCO PRODUCT does not include any product approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation
product.
   VAPOR PRODUCT. Any noncombustible product, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that employs a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic
circuit, or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to
produce a vapor in a solution or other form. VAPOR PRODUCT shall include any
vapor cartridge or other container with or without nicotine or other form that
is intended to be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device and any
vapor cartridge or other container of a solution, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic cigarette,
electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, or electronic device.
(Ord. 12-09-2025-02, passed 12-9-2025)
§ 95.04 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person is allowed to smoke tobacco products in any places in which
smoking tobacco products is prohibited by state law.
   (B)   No person is allowed to smoke or use tobacco products and/or vapor
products on any municipal property, indoor and outdoor, including parks and
recreational areas.
   (C)   Nothing in this subchapter prohibits any person or entity from
prohibiting smoking or the use of tobacco products or vapor products on their
property, even if the use of tobacco products or vapor products is not
otherwise prohibited in that area.
   (D)   No person or entity shall knowingly permit smoking or the use of
tobacco products or vapor products in an area that is under his, her or their
control, if the use of tobacco products or vapor products is prohibited by law
in that area.
   (E)   No person or entity shall permit the placement of ash receptacles,
such as ash trays or ash cans, within an area under the control of that person
or entity and in which smoking is prohibited by law. However, the presence of
ash receptacles shall not be a defense to a charge of the use of tobacco
products or vapor products in violation of any provision of this subchapter.
   (F)   No person shall dispose of smoking, tobacco product, or vapor product
waste within an area in which smoking and the use of tobacco products or vapor
products is prohibited.
   (G)   No person or entity shall intimidate, threaten, or otherwise retaliate
against another person or entity that seeks to attain compliance with this
subchapter.
(Ord. 12-09-2025-02, passed 12-9-2025) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 REQUIRED SIGNS.
   (A)   The person or entity that has legal or de facto control of an area in
which smoking and the use of tobacco products or vapor products is prohibited
by this subchapter shall post a clear, conspicuous, and unambiguous sign at
each point of entry to the area, and in prominent locations within the area.
   (B)   For restrictions on smoking and the use of tobacco products or vapor
products in indoor areas, the sign or decal shall be at least four inches by
two inches in size and shall clearly state that smoking or tobacco use is
prohibited or that a tobacco-free environment is provided. For restrictions on
the use of tobacco products or vapor products in outdoor areas, signs shall be
weather-resistant, at least 15 inches by 15 inches in size, with lettering of
at least one inch, and shall clearly state that smoking or tobacco use is
prohibited or that a tobacco-free environment is provided.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the Town Administrator or the Mayor
shall be responsible for the posting of signs on municipal property, both
indoor and outdoor.
   (D)   Notwithstanding this provision, the presence or absence of signs shall
not be a defense to a charge of smoking or the use of tobacco products or vapor
products in violation of any other provision of this subchapter.
(Ord. 12-09-2025-02, passed 12-9-2025)
WORKSITE POLICY FOR MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
§ 95.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   HOSTING. The use of municipal facilities or other resources for a function,
an event, or an activity. Examples include fairs, community gardens, classes,
support groups, sporting or athletic events, concerts and the like.
   INDOOR AREA. Any enclosed area used or visited by municipal employees,
regardless of whether work is being performed. INDOOR AREA includes work areas,
employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias,
hallways, parking garages, municipal vehicles, and any other spaces used or
visited by employees, as well as all space between a floor and ceiling that is
predominantly or totally enclosed by walls or windows, regardless of openings
such as doors, doorways, open or closed windows, or stairways.
   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY. All buildings, indoor areas, and outdoor areas,
including but not limited to recreational areas and other property, or portions
thereof, owned or operated by the town, including but not limited to vehicles
and equipment owned by the municipality.
   OUTDOOR AREA. Any area that is not an indoor area, and includes outdoor
recreational areas.
   SMOKING. The carrying by a person of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe, or
other lighted smoking device.
   SPONSORING. Providing financial or in-kind support of resources and services
for programs, classes, farmers markets, or other types of events and activities
promoting healthy living.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
consumption. TOBACCO PRODUCT does not include any product approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for sale as a tobacco
cessation product.
   VAPOR PRODUCT. Any noncombustible product, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that employs a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic
circuit, or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to
produce a vapor in a solution or other form. VAPOR PRODUCT includes any vapor
cartridge or other container with or without nicotine or other form that is
intended to be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic
cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device and any vapor
cartridge or other container of a solution, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic cigarette,
electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, or electronic smoking device.
(Ord. 12-09-2025-03, passed 12-9-2025)
§ 95.21 TOBACCO-FREE AND VAPOR-FREE.
   The town commits to supporting employees’ access to clean air by limiting
workplace exposure to secondhand tobacco smoke and secondhand vapor by doing
the following:
   (A)   Supporting existing local and state laws that prohibit smoking and the
use of tobacco products and vapor products in indoor areas and on municipal
property, through educational materials, requisite signage, and enforcement
assistance where applicable;
   (B)   Prohibiting employees from smoking or using tobacco products and vapor
products on municipal property during all hours of employment, including in
indoor areas, such as elevators, and outdoor areas, such as parks and
recreational areas;
   (C)   Prohibiting employees from smoking or using tobacco products and vapor
products in all vehicles owned or leased by the town, at all times;
   (D)   Prohibiting employees from smoking or using tobacco products or vapor
products in personal vehicles during all hours of employment while such
vehicles are on municipal property;
   (E)   Prohibiting ash receptacles (such as ash trays or ash cans) and other
tobacco product and vapor product waste receptacles on municipal property or in
vehicles owned or leased by the town; and
   (F)   Providing cessation support for employees by doing the following:
      (1)   Referring employees interested in quitting use of tobacco products
and vapor products to the Oklahoma Tobacco Helpline and other cessation
resources, if available;
      (2)   Promoting the Oklahoma Tobacco Helpline (1-800-QUIT-NOW or
OKHelpline.com) to ensure awareness of the statewide services that are
available;
      (3)   Providing insurance benefits and access to the following types of
assistance with no prior authorization or out-of-pocket cost to the employee:
         (a)   Group, individual, and phone counseling:
            1.   A minimum of four counseling sessions of at least ten minutes
each per attempt;
            2.   Two quit attempts per year; and
            3.   Free cessation counseling is also offered by the Oklahoma
Tobacco Helpline (1-800-QUIT-NOW)
         (b)   All seven FDA-approved cessation aids;
      (4)   Communicating and promoting the available tobacco cessation
benefits and insurance coverage for employees to all prospective employees, new
employees at the time of hire, and all existingemployees on an annual basis;
and providing specific implementation and enforcement support for the laws
mentioned above, including but not limited to:
         (a)   Posting signs informing people of applicable tobacco-free and
vapor-free laws and policies at entrances to all buildings on municipal
property; and
         (b)   Including copies of applicable tobacco-free and vapor-free laws
and policies in relevant municipal policy manuals, handbooks, or employee
training materials. Employees are responsible for familiarizing themselves with
these laws and policies and their applicable enforcement measures; and
following the employee handbook or policy manual’s standard disciplinary
procedures if an employee violates this policy, treating the violation of these
tobacco-free and vapor-free provisions like any other violation of municipal
policy.
(Ord. 12-09-2025-03, passed 12-9-2025)
§ 95.22 GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   It is the intent of the Town Board that this subchapter is a general
statement of town policy that cannot form the basis of a private right of
action.
(Ord. 12-09-2025-03, passed 12-9-2025)
TOBACCO-FREE POLICY ON ORGANIZATION PROPERTY
§ 95.35 PROHIBITION.
   The use of tobacco products and vapor products is prohibited at all times on
organization property (indoors and outdoors), including organization-owned and/
or organization-leased vehicles. This policy applies to every employee, unpaid
staff, vendor, visitor and any other person present on organization property.
(Ord. 12-09-2025-01, passed 12-9-2025)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Enforcement of §§
95.01 through
95.05 of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the Town Administrator
and/or Code Enforcement Officer. In addition, any peace officer or code
enforcement official may enforce §§
95.01 through
95.05 of this chapter.
      (2)   Any person who knowingly violates §§
95.01 through
95.05 of this chapter shall be punished by a citation and fine of not less than
$100 and not more than $100 in accordance herewith.
      (3)   The possession of a lighted tobacco product in violation of §§
95.01 through
95.05 of this chapter is a nuisance.
      (4)   The remedies provided by §§
95.01 through
95.05 of this chapter are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies
available at law or in equity.
      (5)   Each instance of tobacco product or vapor product use in violation
of §§
95.01 through
95.05 of this chapter shall constitute a separate violation.
      (6)   The use of a vapor product in violation of §§
95.01 through
95.05 of this chapter is a nuisance.
      (7)   Causing, permitting, aiding, abetting, or concealing a violation of
any provision of §§
95.01 through
95.05 of this chapter regarding tobacco product or vapor product use shall also
constitute a violation of §§
95.01 through
95.05 of this chapter.
      (8)   In addition to other remedies provided by §§
95.01 through
95.05 of this chapter or by other law, any violation of §§
95.01 through
95.05 of this chapter regarding tobacco product or vapor product use may be
remedied by the Town Attorney, including, but not limited to, administrative or
judicial nuisance abatement proceedings, criminal code enforcement proceedings,
and suits for injunctive relief.
(Ord. 12-09-2025-02, passed 12-9-2025)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOL
      
111.   MARIJUANA
      
112.   GARAGE SALES
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOL
Section
Alcoholic Beverages
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Occupation tax
   
110.04   Payment of tax
   
110.05   Civil penalty
   
110.06   Location of business
   
110.07   Compliance with town regulations
   
110.08   Certificates of compliance
   
110.09   Conditions of sale
   
110.10   Hours
   
110.11   Prohibited sales
   
110.12   Prohibited employment
   
110.13   Consumption; public intoxication
   
110.14   Transporting beverages or marijuana
Low Point Beer
   
110.25   Definitions
   
110.26   License required
   
110.27   License fees
   
110.28   Hours of sale
   
110.29   Location
   
110.30   Minors
   
110.31   Employment of persons under 18
   
110.32   Dancing prohibited
   
110.33   Intoxicated persons; gambling, disorderly conduct
   
110.34   Unlawful transportation
 
   
110.99   Penalty
**** ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ****
§ 110.01 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is enacted as an exercise of the police power of the town to
preserve the public peace, safety, health, and good order thereof, and to aid
the enforcement of the policy of the state as established by the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, 37A O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq., and to establish
annual occupation taxes upon all persons engaged in the manufacture, sale, or
distribution of alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, all of the terms and phrases used in
this subchapter shall be given the same use and meaning as defined by the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, being 37A O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq. For the purpose
of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MINOR. A person who, in accordance with state law, has not yet attained the
age at which consumption of alcoholic beverages is permitted.
   STATE LICENSEE. Any person who holds a license issued under authority of the
State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, being 37A O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 110.03 OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Tax levied. There is hereby levied an annual tax not to exceed the
amounts indicated below upon the occupations named:
Occupation Tax
Occupation         Tax
Bottle club        $1,000 initial
                   $900 renewal
Brewer             $1,250
Class B wholesaler $625
Distiller          $3,125
Package store      $305
Rectifier          $3,125
State winemaker    $75
Winemaker          $625
Wholesaler         $3,500
 
   (B)   Proration. The occupation taxes prescribed herein shall be reduced or
prorated to the extent necessary to conform to applicable laws respecting the
applicants or holders of state licenses.
   (C)   Exempt service organizations. The license fee for those service
organizations which are exempt under I.R.C. § 501(c)(19) for mixed beverages or
bottle club licenses shall be $500 per year.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3)
§ 110.04 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   Procedure for payment. Any state licensee originally entering upon any
occupation herein listed shall pay the tax therefor at the office of the Town
Clerk on or before the date upon which he or she enters upon such occupation.
The licensee shall provide a copy of his or her current state license before
payment of an occupation tax will be accepted. All occupation taxes shall
expire on June 30 of each year.
   (B)   Multiple locations. Any state licensee carrying on his or her
occupation in more than one location within the town limits shall be subject to
the tax set out for each such location.
   (C)   Receipt and record.
      (1)   Upon payment of the occupation tax as set out, the Town Clerk shall
issue a receipt to the state licensee which the licensee shall post in a
conspicuous place on the premises wherein he or she carries on his or her
occupation.
      (2)   The Town Clerk shall also record the name of such licensee and the
address where he or she engages in his or her occupation, and such records
shall be duly filed and kept in the permanent files of that office for at least
three years. Thereafter, upon approval of the Town Board of Trustees, the
records may be destroyed.
   (D)   Report. The Town Clerk shall make and transmit to the State Alcoholic
Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE) Commission an annual report covering the
fiscal year showing the number and class of businesses upon which occupation
taxes were levied, and the amount of money collected from such taxes.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 CIVIL PENALTY.
   All sums due from any person, firm, or corporation by reason of occupation
taxes imposed by this subchapter shall be recoverable at suit of the town
brought against such person in any court of competent jurisdiction. In such
suit, in addition to the tax, the town shall be allowed to recover interest at
the maximum allowable rate permitted by state law upon all sums due by way of
tax, from the date of accrual thereof, any penalty, and all costs of
collection, judicial or otherwise, including reasonable attorney fees.
Prosecution for an offense against the town arising out of the failure to pay a
tax levied by this chapter, regardless of the outcome or its continued
pendency, shall not constitute a defense or a bar in any manner to the
collection of any tax and penalties, if any are due, as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5)
§ 110.06 LOCATION OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The location of a retail package store, mixed beverage establishment,
or bottle club is specifically prohibited within 300 feet from any church
property primarily and regularly used for worship services and religious
activities, or public school. If any such church or school shall be established
within 300 feet of any licensed premises after such premises have been
licensed, this shall not be a bar to the renewal of such license so long as it
has been in continuous force and effect.
   (B)   The distance indicated in division (A) above shall be measured from
the nearest property line of such church or school to the nearest public
entrance door of the premises of such package store, mixed beverage
establishment, or bottle club along the street right-of-way line providing the
nearest direct route usually traveled by pedestrians between such points. For
purposes of determining measured distance, property situated on the opposite
side of the street from such church or school shall be considered as if it were
located on the same side of the street with such church or school.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 COMPLIANCE WITH TOWN REGULATIONS.
   No retail alcoholic beverage package store, no bottle club, and no wholesale
alcoholic beverage store, warehouse, brewery, distillery, winery, or any other
place, however described, and for the manufacture or production or bottling of
alcoholic beverages of any kind, shall be located, maintained, or operated by
any person at any place within the boundaries of the town except at a location
at which such an establishment is permitted or authorized by the town. No
person shall own, operate, maintain, or be interested in any retail alcoholic
beverage store which is located at a place within the town limits which is in
violation of or forbidden as a location by the town or under the laws of the
state.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-7) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   Every applicant for a certificate of compliance with the fire,
health, and safety codes of the town required by 37A O.S. shall apply at the
office of the Clerk by:
         (a)   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office;
and
         (b)   Paying a verification and certification fee in the amount as set
by the Board of Trustees at the time of filing.
      (2)   Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of compliance, the
town shall cause an investigation to be made to determine whether the premises
proposed for licensed operations comply with any health, fire, building, and
other safety codes applicable to it.
      (3)   The town shall act on all such applications within 20 days of
receipt thereof.
   (B)   Issuance.
      (1)   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is
in compliance with all applicable fire, safety, and health codes, a certificate
of compliance shall be issued to the ABLE Commission.
      (2)   The certificate described in division (B)(1) above shall be signed
by the Mayor.
      (3)   (a)   A conditional certificate may be granted if construction,
modification, or alteration of the premises proposed for licensed operations is
not completed. The conditional certificate shall indicate that the proposed
premises will comply with town fire, safety, and health codes.
         (b)   A certificate in accordance with division (B)(1) above shall be
issued within ten days after all final inspections are complete.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-8)
§ 110.09 CONDITIONS OF SALE.
   (A)   Manner of sale. No person shall sell or deliver alcoholic beverages
out of any retail alcoholic beverage store other than:
      (1)   In retail containers;
      (2)   At ordinary room temperatures;
      (3)   In the original packages; and
      (4)   For consumption off the premises.
   (B)   Consumption on premises prohibited. No person owning, employed in, or
in any manner assisting in the maintenance and operation of such a store shall
suffer or permit any alcoholic beverage to be consumed, or any retail container
of such beverage to be opened, on the premises of such a store.
   (C)   Compliance required. No person shall sell at retail or otherwise, and
no person shall deliver, in consequence of or in completion of such a sale, any
alcoholic beverages at any place in the town except at a retail alcoholic
beverage store in strict conformity with this subchapter and the laws of the
state.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-9) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 HOURS.
   (A)   Retail dealers. No person shall open for business or keep open for
business or sell or deliver alcoholic beverages, as defined herein, to any
person at a retail alcoholic beverage store in the town on any Sunday, New
Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving
Day, or Christmas Day, or while the polls are open on the day of any general,
primary, runoff primary, or special election, whether national, state, county,
or town, or any other day except between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
   (B)   Wholesale dealers. No wholesale dealer in alcoholic beverages, and no
officer, agent, or employee of such a dealer, shall sell or deliver to any
retail alcoholic beverage store within the town any amount of spirits or wines
on Saturday of any week, on Sunday of any week, on New Year’s Day, on Memorial
Day, on the Fourth of July, on Labor Day, on Veterans Day, on Thanksgiving Day,
on Christmas Day, or while the polls are open on the day of any general,
primary, runoff primary, or special election, whether national, state, county,
or town.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-10) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.11 PROHIBITED SALES.
   (A)   Minors. No person shall knowingly sell, deliver, or furnish alcoholic
beverages, at any place within the town limits, to any person who is a minor.
Neither shall any minor misrepresent his or her age verbally or in writing, or
present false documentation of age or otherwise for the purpose of inducing any
other person to sell him or her alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   Intoxicated or insane persons. No person shall sell, deliver, or
knowingly furnish alcoholic beverage or beverages within the town to an
intoxicated person or to any person who has been adjudged insane or mentally
deficient.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-11) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 PROHIBITED EMPLOYMENT.
   No minor shall be employed in the selling, manufacture, distribution, or
other handling of alcoholic beverages at any place within the town. No person
shall employ or assist or aid in causing the employment of any minor at any
place within the town in the selling, manufacture, distribution, or other
handling of alcoholic beverages. No minor shall be permitted to remain within
or to loiter about the premises of a retail alcoholic beverage store. Violation
of this provision shall subject the owner or proprietor, as well as the
underage person, to prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-12) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.13 CONSUMPTION; PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   (A)   Consumption on premises. No person shall drink or consume in any
manner any alcoholic beverage on the premises of a retail alcoholic beverage
package store, nor in any other public place. Neither shall a person open or
break the seal of any original package or retail container containing alcoholic
beverages on the premises of any such retail beverage store.
   (B)   Drinking in public place. No persons within the town shall drink
intoxicating liquor in any public place, nor shall any person be intoxicated in
a public place within the town.
   (C)   Places of business; responsibility of owner. No person operating a
café, restaurant, club, or any place of recreation within the town, and no
employee engaged in connection with the operation of such a café, restaurant,
club, or place of recreation, shall permit any person to be drunk or
intoxicated in the place of business.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-13) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.14 TRANSPORTING BEVERAGES OR MARIJUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly transport in any vehicle upon the public
highways, streets or alleys of the town any alcoholic beverage or low-point
beer, except in the original container which shall not have been opened and the
seal upon which shall not have been broken, and from which the original cap or
cork shall not have been removed, unless the opened container is in the trunk
or rear compartment, which shall include the spare tire compartment in a
station wagon or panel truck, or any outside compartment which is not
accessible to the driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is in
motion.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall consume marijuana or inhale secondhand marijuana
smoke due to another person’s consumption of marijuana while operating a motor
vehicle on a public highway, street, or alley.
      (2)   A person operating a motor vehicle on a public highway, street, or
alley shall not possess any open container that contains marijuana in the
passenger area of the motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-14) (Ord. 2026-2-26, passed 2-26-2026) Penalty, see §
110.99
**** LOW POINT BEER ****
§ 110.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOW POINT BEER. All beverages containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume
and less than 3.2% alcohol by weight.
   MINOR. A person who, according to state law, has not yet attained the age at
which consumption of low point beer is permitted under state law.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. Each separate location or service unit in which or from
which low point beer is sold, delivered, or otherwise furnished.
   RETAIL DEALER. Any person who sells any low point beer, as defined herein,
for consumption or use and not for resale.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1)
§ 110.26 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Application. It is unlawful and an offense for any person to sell,
distribute, or dispense within the town any low point beer to the public for
consumption or use without first having obtained a license therefor from the
Town Clerk. Every person desiring to engage in business as a retail dealer in
low point beer or to continue in the business within the town shall make
application to the Town Clerk on forms to be provided, setting forth the
locations of the business, together with the applicant’s address, and if a
corporation, the name of the president and managing officer. The application
shall show the date and permit number of the permits issued by the District
Court Judge and the State Tax Commission as required by law.
   (B)   Issuance. Upon a showing that the applicant has obtained his or her
permits from the District Court Judge and the State Tax Commission and after
payment of the license fee to the town such license shall be issued forthwith.
All licenses shall expire on June 30 of each year. Licenses issued hereunder
shall not be assignable or transferable, and the fee shall not be prorated for
part of the year. The town license shall be displayed in the licensee’s place
of business. The license may be cancelled for any violation of the laws of the
state for which the licensee’s county or state license may be cancelled, and in
a similar manner.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.27 LICENSE FEES.
   There is hereby levied on each retail dealer in low point beer within the
town selling such beverages for consumption on or off the premises of the
dealer’s place of business a license fee of $20 per annum, and on each retail
dealer selling such beverages exclusively in original packages (of not less
than case lots) and not for consumption on his or her premises a license fee of
$10 per annum. A separate license fee shall be paid for each place of business,
as herein defined, operated and conducted by the retail dealer.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.28 HOURS OF SALE.
   It is unlawful for any owner, firm, person, operator, corporation,
proprietor, or manager of any beer tavern, beer garden, beer hall, tap room, or
any other premises or place in which the principal business is that of selling
low point beer for consumption on the premises, to barter, sell, dispense, or
otherwise furnish low point beer for consumption on the premises of his or her
place of business between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. any day.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-4) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.29 LOCATION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any place licensed to sell low point beer for on-
premises consumption to be located within 300 feet from any public school or
church property primarily and regularly used for worship services and religious
activities. If any public school or church shall be established within 300 feet
of any place which sells low point beer for on-premises consumption after such
place has been licensed, this shall not be a deterrent to the renewal of such
license so long as there has not been a lapse of more than 60 days. The
distance indicated in this section shall be measured from the nearest property
line of such public school or church to the nearest perimeter wall of the
premises of any place licensed to sell such low point beer for on-premises
consumption along the street right-of-way line providing the nearest direct
route usually traveled by pedestrians between such points. For purposes of
determining measured distance, property situated on the opposite side of the
street from such public school or church shall be considered as if it were
located on the same side of the street with the school or church.
   (B)   The restrictions in division (A) above shall not affect premises
already licensed as of the initial effective date of this section to sell low
point beer for on-premises consumption or premises which may presently or in
the future be licensed to sell low point beer for on-premises consumption even
though a school or church is subsequently established within 300 feet of such
licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-5) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.30 MINORS.
   (A)   Sale. It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer, give away, procure
for, barter, or otherwise dispense to any minor any low point beer, or for any
minor to purchase, receive, or procure any low point beer.
   (B)   Possession.
      (1)   POSSESSION, under the terms of this subchapter, shall consist of
actual physical possession and shall further include any low point beer
accessible or within the range of reach of hands of any such person.
      (2)   It is unlawful for a minor to be in possession of any low point
beer while such person is upon any public street, avenue, alley, road, highway,
or public building or place.
   (C)   Frequenting bars; exceptions.
      (1)   The owner of any bar, beer hall, tavern, or other place wherein any
low point beer is dispensed for consumption on the premises shall not permit
any minor to be admitted to, enter, or to remain in a separate enclosed bar
area of the licensed premises which has as its main purpose the selling or
serving of low point beer for consumption on the premises unless the person’s
legal guardian or parent is present, nor shall any minor enter or remain about
such separate or enclosed bar area.
      (2)   This division (C) shall not prohibit minors from being admitted to,
entering, or remaining in an area which has as its main purpose some objective
other than the sale or serving of low point beer, in which sales or serving of
low point beer is incidental to the main purpose, if the minors are not sold or
served or do not consume low point beer.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-6) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.31 EMPLOYMENT OF PERSONS UNDER 18.
   (A)   Places where sold for consumption on premises. It is unlawful for any
owner, manager, operator, or employee of a place where low point beer is sold
for consumption on the premises to employ a person under 18 years of age to
work in such place, or for any person under 18 years of age to work in such
place. This division (A) shall not apply to any licensed premises where sales
of low point beer do not exceed 25% of the gross sales of the licensee.
   (B)   Enclosed areas for sale or consumption. It is unlawful for any minor
to be employed or permitted to work in any capacity whatsoever in the separate
or enclosed bar area of a place where the main purpose of the area is the sale
or consumption of low point beer. This division (B) shall not apply to any area
which has as its main purpose some objective other than the sale or serving of
low point beer, in which sales or serving of low point beer is incidental to
the main purpose.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-7) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.32 DANCING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any retail dealer operating a place of business where low
point beer is sold for consumption on the premises, or any person in charge of
such place, to permit dancing therein. It is unlawful for any person to dance
in such a place.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-8) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.33 INTOXICATED PERSONS; GAMBLING, DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   Intoxicated persons. It is unlawful for the owner, manager, or
operator of a place where low point beer is sold for consumption on the
premises to sell or otherwise furnish such beverage to an intoxicated person or
to permit an intoxicated person to remain or loiter therein.
   (B)   Prohibited conduct.
      (1)   It is unlawful for the owner, manager, or operator of such a place
to permit therein:
         (a)   Gambling, betting, or operation of a lottery;
         (b)   Sale, furnishing, or drinking of intoxicating liquor;
         (c)   Disorderly conduct;
         (d)   Loud or disturbing language, noise, or music; or
         (e)   Any other violation of the laws of the state or of the
ordinances of the town.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in any such activity or
conduct in such place.
   (C)   Contests of physical strength. It is unlawful for the owner, manager,
or operator of such a place to permit therein fighting, boxing, wrestling, or
other contests of physical strength, or for any person to fight, box, wrestle,
or engage in other contests of physical strength in such place.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-9) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.34 UNLAWFUL TRANSPORTATION.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to transport in any moving vehicle
upon a public street or alley, or any public way within the town, any low point
beer unless it is:
   (A)   In the original container which shall not have been opened and from
which the original cap or seal shall not have been removed; or
   (B)   If it is in opened container, the opened container is in the rear
trunk or rear compartment, which shall include the spare tire compartment in a
station wagon or panel truck, or any outside compartment which is not
accessible to the driver or to any other person in the vehicle while it is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-10) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any and each violation of any of the provisions of §§
110.01 through
110.14 is an offense against the town and, upon conviction of such an offense,
the violator shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-15)
   (C)   Any person who engages in any of the occupations taxed by §§
110.01 through
110.14 without first paying the occupation tax imposed therefor in advance of
such operation is guilty of an offense against the town and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99. A penalty in the form of increased tax may be levied upon any person not
paying the tax within 15 days after it is due.
   (D)   Any and each violation of any of the provisions of §§
110.25 through
110.34 is an offense against the town and, upon conviction of such an offense,
the violator shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-11)
CHAPTER 111: MARIJUANA
Section
Medical Marijuana Facilities
   
111.01   Definition
   
111.02   Retail medical marijuana dispensaries
   
111.03   Retail medical marijuana dispensary location restrictions
   
111.04   Commercial medical marijuana growing facilities
   
111.05   Commercial medical marijuana growing facilities location restrictions
   
111.06   Commercial medical marijuana processing facilities
   
111.07   Commercial medical marijuana processing facilities location
restrictions
   
111.08   Inspections
   
111.09   Other regulations
 
   
111.99   Penalty
**** MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITIES ****
§ 111.01 DEFINITION.
   All MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITIES permitted by this subchapter are hereby
defined as any such facility which is properly licensed by the state.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 111.02 RETAIL MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARIES.
   (A)   All operators of retail medical marijuana dispensaries are required to
obtain a retail medical marijuana dispensary permit from the Municipal Clerk.
   (B)   The retail medical marijuana dispensary permit fee shall be $600 per
year. The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering costs related
to licensing, inspection, administration, and enforcement of retail medical
marijuana dispensaries.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 RETAIL MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   A retail medical marijuana dispensary permit will not be granted to
any applicant where the proposed location is outside of a commercial zone of
the corporate town limits.
   (B)   A retail medical marijuana dispensary permit will not be granted to
any applicant where the proposed location would be situated within $500 feet of
any public elementary, middle, or high school or church property primarily and
regularly used for worship service and religious activities.
   (C)   For the distance requirement outlined in division (B) above, the
distance shall be computed by the most direct foot path from the nearest
property line of the parcel of land on which the use described in §
111.02(A) is located to the main entrance of the public school.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019; Ord. 2019-03, passed 5-7-2019) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES.
   (A)   All operators of a commercial medical marijuana growing facility are
required to obtain a commercial medical marijuana growing facility permit from
the Municipal Clerk.
   (B)   The medical marijuana growing facility permit fee shall be $600 per
year. The fees shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering costs
related to licensing, inspection, administration, and enforcement of commercial
medical marijuana growing facilities.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   A commercial medical marijuana growing facility permit will not be
granted to any applicant where the proposed location is outside of an
industrial or agricultural zone, or such other zone as may hereinafter
specifically permit the same.
   (B)   A commercial medical marijuana growing permit will not be granted to
any applicant where the proposed location would be situated within 1,000 feet
of any public or private elementary, middle, or high school or church property
primarily and regularly used for worship service and religious activities.
   (C)   For the distance requirement outlined in division (B) above, the
distance shall be computed by the most direct foot path from the nearest
property line of the parcel of land on which the use described in §
111.04(A) is located to the main entrance of the public or private school.
   (D)   A commercial medical marijuana growing facility must be constructed in
such a manner that the growing of the marijuana plants cannot be seen by the
public from a public right-of-way.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019; Ord. 2019-03, passed 5-7-2019) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROCESSING FACILITIES.
   (A)   All operators of a medical marijuana processing facility are required
to obtain a medical marijuana processing facility permit from the Municipal
Clerk.
   (B)   The medical marijuana processing facility permit fee shall be $600 per
year. The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering costs related
to licensing, inspection, administration, and enforcement of commercial medical
marijuana processing facilities.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROCESSING FACILITIES LOCATION
RESTRICTION.
   (A)   A commercial medical marijuana processing facility permit will not be
granted to any applicant where the proposed location is outside an industrial
or agricultural zone or such other zone as may hereinafter specifically permit
the same.
   (B)   A commercial medical marijuana processing permit will not be granted
to any applicant where the proposed location would be situated within 1,000
feet of any public elementary, middle, or high school, or church property
primarily and regularly used for worship service and religious activities.
   (C)   For the distance requirement outlined in division (B) above, the
distance shall be computed by the most direct foot path from the nearest
property line of the parcel of land on which the use described in §
111.06(A) is located to the main entrance of the public or private school.
   (D)   A commercial medical marijuana processing facility must be constructed
in such a manner that the growing of the marijuana plants cannot be seen by the
public from the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019; Ord. 2019-03, passed 5-7-2019) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All permits outlined in this subchapter will be subject to inspection
by an authorized municipal inspector prior to issuance.
   (B)   The inspection prior to a permit decision will occur at a time
scheduled and approved by both the applicant and the municipal inspector.
   (C)   The applicant will be required to be present during the inspection.
   (D)   (1)   After a medical marijuana facility permit has been issued under
this subchapter, the town’s permitting authority, or agent thereof, shall be
authorized to enter upon and inspect the operations being conducted therein to
ensure compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   Such inspection shall take place during regular business hours of
such facility and upon reasonable notice to the operator of such facility.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts those regulations governing commercial medical
marijuana businesses. The provisions of said chapter of the Oklahoma
Administrative Code shall take effect and be controlling within the town’s
limits such that a violation of those regulations shall be a violation of this
code, though nothing in this section shall grant to the town the power or
jurisdiction to prosecute offenses that a town is not authorized to prosecute.
   (B)   A plan for ventilation of a medical marijuana business facility shall
be submitted to the town prior to a permit being granted and shall describe to
the town’s satisfaction the ventilation systems that will be used to prevent
any unreasonable odor of marijuana from escaping the facility.
   (C)   A plan for fire separation at a medical marijuana business facility
shall be submitted to the town prior to a permit being granted and shall
describe to the town’s satisfaction the manner by which any fire generated at
such facility shall be contained within and prevented from spreading to any
adjacent structures. The same plan shall describe to the town’s satisfaction
the manner by which any such fire within the facility shall be suppressed.
   (D)   Smoking or using marijuana shall be prohibited on all town property,
including vehicles, buildings, parks, or other town facilities.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Penalties for violations of §§
111.01 through
111.09 shall be, in the town’s discretion, a fine not to exceed $200 per day of
violation, or revocation of permit, or both. Each day that a violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. The dollar amount of the fine
imposed hereby is subject to amendment by resolution of the town’s fee
schedule.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019)
CHAPTER 112: GARAGE SALES
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   License fee
   
112.04   Conditions
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition applies unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE. Any sale commonly known as a garage, porch, room, backyard, or
patio sale conducted at a residence, where goods or articles of any type are
sold to the public.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1) (Ord. 2006-1, passed 9-7-2006)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Application. It is mandatory that a person obtain a license before
holding, conducting, engaging in, or participating in any manner of garage
sale.
   (B)   Issuance. The Town Clerk is hereby authorized to grant a license for a
garage sale for a period not to exceed three consecutive days to any person
applying who otherwise complies with the requirements of this code.
   (C)   Separate license. A separate license shall be required for each
location at which a garage sale is to be held, and no location shall be
eligible for more than one license in any three-month period.
   (D)   Sale not held. If a garage sale is not held on the dates for which the
license is issued due to weather conditions, the Town Clerk may issue another
license to the applicant for a garage sale to be conducted at the same location
within 30 days from the date when the first sale was to be held.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-2) (Ord. 2006-1, passed 9-7-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 LICENSE FEE.
   A $5 fee is required for each license obtained for each residential
location.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-3) (Ord. 2006-1, passed 9-7-2006)
§ 112.04 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Garage sales are limited to one sale per three-month period.
   (B)   All garage sale items must not remain out after the three-day period.
   (C)   All garage sale signs must be removed after completion of sale.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-4) (Ord. 2006-1, passed 9-7-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH, WELFARE, AND MORALS
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Adoption of state law
   
130.02   Attempt to commit offense
   
130.03   Aiding in offense
Unclaimed Property
   
130.15   Complete record required
   
130.16   Disposition
   
130.17   Property found by private person
   
130.18   Recovery by owner
 
   
130.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 130.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   All misdemeanor offenses, and any amendments thereto, contained in the
Oklahoma Statutes, including, but not limited to, 21 O.S., are hereby adopted
and included herein by reference and made a part hereof as if fully set out
herein.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this code for any person to
commit an act or acts which constitute a misdemeanor pursuant to the Oklahoma
Statutes, and any amendments thereto. The Municipal Court shall have full
authority to hear and sentence on all such violations of the law.
   (C)   In the event of conflict between elements of the offenses specifically
set forth in the code and the state statutes adopted by reference, prosecutions
will be conducted under the state statutes and any amendments thereto adopted
by reference.
   (D)   In no event shall fines or incarceration exceed the jurisdictional
limits imposed by the state legislature on the Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 ATTEMPT TO COMMIT OFFENSE.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
town, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense, and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the attempted
offense itself.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 AIDING IN OFFENSE.
   When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels or aids another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense, or
misdemeanor, and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
**** UNCLAIMED PROPERTY ****
§ 130.15 COMPLETE RECORD REQUIRED.
   (A)   All personal property which comes into the possession of any police
officer, which has been found or stolen or taken off the person or out of the
possession of any prisoner or person suspected of, or charged with, being a
criminal, and which is not known to belong to some person laying claim thereto,
shall be, by the officer securing possession thereof, delivered into the charge
of the Chief of Police.
   (B)   The Chief shall, in a permanent record book kept for that purpose,
make a record sufficient to identify the property, with the date and
circumstances of the receipt thereof, the name of the person from whom it was
taken and the place where it was found, and the record shall also disclose the
subsequent disposal thereof, giving the date of sale, name, and address of the
purchaser, and the amount for which it was sold.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-1)
§ 130.16 DISPOSITION.
   Any unclaimed personal property, other than animals, which remains in the
possession of the Chief of Police unclaimed, or the ownership of which is not
to him or her satisfactorily established, for a period of more than 30 days,
shall be sold or disposed of in the manner required by law, except such
personal property as in the opinion of the Town Board of Trustees can be more
advantageously used by some department or office of the town government.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-2)
§ 130.17 PROPERTY FOUND BY PRIVATE PERSON.
   Any personal property found by a person other than a public official or
employee, which is delivered to any police officer for identification, if not
claimed or identified within 30 days, shall, within ten additional days
thereafter, if requested by the finder, be returned to him or her, and a record
of such disposal made thereof. If the finder does not request return of the
property to him or her within such additional ten days, then the Chief of
Police shall sell the property in the manner required by law as if it had been
found by a public official or employee, or on instruction by the Board of
Trustees, deliver it to some department or office of the town government for
its use.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-3)
§ 130.18 RECOVERY BY OWNER.
   If any property is sold as herein provided, and the owner thereof takes and
recovers possession of same from the purchaser, the amount paid therefor shall
be returned to the purchaser, upon verified claim being submitted and approved
by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-4)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of the provisions of §§
130.01 through
130.03 is punishable as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Petty larceny
   
131.02   Injuring automobiles
   
131.03   Injuring buildings and other property
   
131.04   Placing signs on property of another
   
131.05   Throwing or shooting at persons or property
   
131.06   Tampering with public utilities
   
131.07   Unlawful intrusion upon land
   
131.08   Trespassing
   
131.09   Throwing advertising on street
   
131.10   Throwing injurious substances
   
131.11   Injury to plants and trees
   
131.12   Public streets and trees
   
131.13   Parking on property of another
   
131.14   Fire hydrants
§ 131.01 PETTY LARCENY.
   (A)   Defined. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PETTY LARCENY. The taking of personal property of value not exceeding $50
accomplished by fraud or stealth and with intent to deprive another thereof,
but it does not include the taking of such property from the person of another.
   (B)   Prohibited. Petty larceny is unlawful, and any person who commits
larceny shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 5-5A-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 INJURING AUTOMOBILES.
   It is unlawful for any person to start, otherwise meddle with, molest,
enter, occupy, loiter in, or injure any automobile or other vehicle belonging
to another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-5A-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 INJURING BUILDINGS AND OTHER PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear, or molest
any structure, building, outbuilding, fence, or any other property, real or
personal, public or private, belonging to another, or to use any such property
wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person entitled to its use,
or to interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its owner or
any other person entitled to its use.
(Prior Code, § 5-5A-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04 PLACING SIGNS ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint,
mark, write, or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement,
bill, placard, device, or inscription upon any public or private building,
fence, sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle, or other
property of another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-5A-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.05 THROWING OR SHOOTING AT PERSONS OR PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot, or other
object into or across any street or alley, or in any place where he or she is
likely to hit another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or
shoot any stone, shot, or other object at any person, vehicle, structure,
electric light, or other property of another (whether public or private),
except in case where such is done in defense of oneself, of another person, or
of property.
(Prior Code, § 5-5A-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.06 TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach any kind of pipe,
wire, or other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire, or other conductor carrying
gas, water, or electricity and belonging to a public utility (whether publicly
or privately owned), in such a manner as to enable him or her to consume or use
the gas, water, or electricity without it passing through the meter or any
other way so as to evade payment therefor.
   (B)   It is also unlawful for any person to damage, molest, tamper with, or
destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter, or other part of any public utility,
including any telegraph or telephone system.
(Prior Code, § 5-5A-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.07 UNLAWFUL INTRUSION UPON LAND.
   It is unlawful for any person to intrude or squat upon any lot or piece of
land within the town without a license or authority from the owner thereof, or
to erect or occupy thereon any hut, hovel, shanty, or other structure without
such license or authority, or to place, erect, or occupy within the bounds of
any street, alley, or avenue of the town any hut, shanty, hovel, or other
structure without authority of law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 5-5A-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.08 TRESPASSING.
   (A)   Illegal entrance. It is illegal for any person to enter upon the
property of another or into an area or structure on such property (whether such
property, area, or structure is public or private), when such entrance is
plainly forbidden by signs or any notice or when the property, area, or
structure is enclosed, except when such entrance is in line of duty, or with
the expressed or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge, or otherwise
by authority of law or ordinance. It is unlawful for any person to remain on
the property of another after having been given notice, written or verbal, to
leave by the owner or person in charge.
   (B)   Trespass.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property other than public property.
         PUBLIC PROPERTY. Property which is dedicated to public use and over
which the federal, state, or municipal government or any subdivision thereof
exercises control.
         TRESPASS.
            1.   Each and every actual entry upon the premises of an owner or
other person in lawful possession of the premises without the express or the
implied consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession.
            2.   TRESPASS shall also mean remaining upon the premises of an
owner or other person in lawful possession after having been told to leave the
premises by the owner, or the agent or employee of the owner, or other person
in lawful possession of the premises.
            3.   TRESPASS shall also be defined as the act of remaining on
private property at any time other than during posted hours of business
operation after having been directed to vacate such premises by a police
officer. The provisions of this definition shall not apply to persons,
including employees, whose presence upon such premises is authorized by the
owner or by a person in lawful possession of such premises nor shall the
provisions of this definition apply unless hours of business operations are
posted upon such premises.
            4.   TRESPASS shall also be defined as the act of returning to
private property before the posted time of opening for business operation on
the next business day after having been directed to vacate such premises under
the terms of this definition.
      (2)   Prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to trespass on private
property.
(Prior Code, § 5-5A-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.09 THROWING ADVERTISING ON STREET.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, leave, or deposit, or cause to be
thrown, left, or deposited, upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
area, any handbill, circular, or other advertising matter.
(Prior Code, § 5-5A-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.10 THROWING INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES.
   It is unlawful for any person to purposely or premeditatedely put or throw
upon the person or property of another, on upon any animal, any acid,
corrosive, or other irritating or harmful substance, or human or animal waste
or urine, with intent to injure or harass the person, property, or animal.
(Prior Code, § 5-5A-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.11 INJURY TO PLANTS AND TREES.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully and without authority cut, pull,
pluck, or otherwise injure any flowers, flowering plants, shrubs, or trees
growing in or around any park or public street within the town, or willfully or
without authority to tear down, remove, cut, or otherwise injure or destroy any
gate or fence enclosing any such park or ground, or willfully injure or destroy
any stand, bench, seat, or other property situated upon such park or ground.
Any person violating this section, upon conviction, shall be deemed guilty of
an offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-5A-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.12 PUBLIC STREETS AND TREES.
   (A)   Prohibited acts. It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Willfully or wantonly cut, deface, or in any way injure any tree or
sapling standing or growing in any of the streets, alleys, or public places
within the town;
      (2)   Attach any guy wires, telephone, telegraph, or electric wire, or
any wire to any live tree;
      (3)   Dig any hole, ditch, or trench in any public street, road, avenue,
or alley, or any other public premises or ground within, belonging to or under
the supervision or control of the town;
      (4)   Take or remove any dirt, earth, or any substance from any street,
road, alley, or other public place in the town, or to cut, break, or otherwise
injure any pavement, curb, or gutter therein; or
      (5)   Connect any driveway to any street or other public place without
first securing permission from the Town Inspector to do so.
   (B)   Supervision. Any such digging, removing, or driveway connection shall
be done under the supervision of the Street Superintendent or Town Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 5-5A-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.13 PARKING ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It is unlawful for any person to park an automobile or other vehicle, or to
place any structure or object on the driveway, yard, or property of another
without the expressed or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge or by
authority of law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 5-5A-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.14 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Interference. It is unlawful for any person, except one duly
authorized by the town utility personnel or a member of the Fire Department, to
open, turn on or off, interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect
anything with any fire hydrant or stopcock belonging to the town.
   (B)   Obstruction. It is unlawful for any person to obstruct access to any
fire hydrant by placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt, or other thing,
or in any other manner obstructing access to a fire hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 5-5A-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Disturbing the peace
   
132.02   Insulting signs, literature, or language
   
132.03   Fireworks
   
132.04   Explosives
   
132.05   Carrying weapons
   
132.06   Firearms
   
132.07   Loud noise or music
§ 132.01 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   Prohibited. It is unlawful to disturb or alarm the peace of another or
others by doing any of the acts set out in division (B) below.
   (B)   Acts enumerated. DISTURBING THE PEACE is the doing of any of the
following in such a manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the peace of
another or others:
      (1)   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent, or insulting language or conduct;
      (2)   Appearing in an intoxicated condition;
      (3)   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
      (4)   Lewdly exposing one’s person, or private parts thereof, in any
public place or in any place where there are present other persons to be
offended or annoyed thereby;
      (5)   Pointing any pistol or any other deadly weapon, whether loaded or
not, at any other person or persons either in anger or otherwise;
      (6)   Holding an unlawful assembly of two or more persons, including
being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful act against
the peace or to the terror of others or preparing for or moving toward such
acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously;
      (7)   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise, by
rude, indecent, or improper behavior, by profane, improper, or loud language,
or in any other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing
distance thereof;
      (8)   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises;
      (9)   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship by making noise, by rude, indecent, or improper behavior, by
profane, improper, or loud language, or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof; or
      (10)   Committing any other act in such a manner as to unreasonably
disturb or alarm the public.
(Prior Code, § 5-5B-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 INSULTING SIGNS, LITERATURE, OR LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Signs. It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation within the
town to display any sign, emblem, badge, flag, or device, which in its common
acceptance is insulting, profane, or abusive to the citizens of the town, and
which is calculated, or of which the natural consequence is, to cause a breach
of the peace or an assault.
   (B)   Literature or language. It is unlawful for any person to willfully
use, utter, publish, circulate, or distribute any profane, violent, abusive, or
insulting language or literature where:
      (1)   A natural consequence of the language or literature is to cause a
breach of the peace or an assault; or
      (2)   The language or literature, in its common acceptance, is calculated
to cause a breach of the peace or an assault.
(Prior Code, § 5-5B-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, FIREWORKS shall have the
meaning prescribed by state law, 68 O.S. § 1622.
   (B)   Permit; application.
      (1)   Any person, group of persons, company, or corporation who desires
to engage in the sale and distribution of fireworks, either in a wholesale or
retail capacity, must first make application to the town for a permit. Such
application must be in writing and be made 30 days prior to the date of the
proposed sale of the fireworks. The applicant shall pay to the Town Clerk a fee
of $10 which shall be retained, regardless of the outcome of the permit. The
application shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Class and type of fireworks to be sold;
         (b)   Time of opening and closing of outlet;
         (c)   Location of outlet, stand, or display;
         (d)   Statement as to firefighting equipment to be located at outlet,
stand, or display; and
         (e)   Number of “no smoking” signs to be posted on or around the
outlet, stand, or display.
      (2)   The Fire Chief must sign permit for sole approval stating sale site
has been inspected and found safe.
   (C)   Hours of sale. There shall be no sales of fireworks inside the
corporate limits of the town except between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m. six days prior to July 4 of each year and between the hours of 10:00 a.m.
and 12:00 a.m. on July 4 of each year. This division (C) shall not apply to the
sale of fireworks from wholesaler to retailer.
   (D)   Ignition of fireworks. No individual shall ignite or explode fireworks
within the town limits, except between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
six days prior to July 4 each year and between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:
00 a.m. on July 4 of each year. No one shall, at any time, expel fireworks from
a motor vehicle.
   (E)   Duty of parent. No parent or guardian shall knowingly permit or
authorize any child or ward to violate any provisions of this section.
   (F)   Special events. The Board of Trustees may authorize the public display
of fireworks at special events, provided that proper application is made to the
Board of Trustees as provided in division (B) above.
   (G)   Inspection. The Fire Chief or Police Chief shall have the right,
power, and authority to inspect any outlet, either wholesale or retail, of
fireworks in the town, and may recommend corrective measures to provide for the
safety of the citizens of the town to the owners or operators of the outlets.
   (H)   Revocation of permit. If at any time it appears that the provisions of
this section or of any other sections of this code or of the laws of the state
are being violated, the Board of Trustees shall revoke the permit issued under
the provisions of this section, upon giving at least one day’s notice to the
holder of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-5B-3) (Ord. 146, passed 7-7-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04 EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Storage of powder.
      (1)   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to keep or permit to
be kept in the town any gunpowder, blasting powder, or giant powder; provided,
the merchant, for the purpose of sale, may keep in stock a quantity not greater
than 25 pounds of each kind.
      (2)   All the powder mentioned in this section shall be stored and kept
in cans, casks, or canisters provided with tightly fitting lids, and such cans,
casks, or canisters shall be placed in a box or chest securely covered on the
entire outside with iron or other metal and shall be provided with substantial
handles at each end and shall have the word “powder” printed thereon, and shall
be kept at least 20 feet from a place where there is a fire or open flame.
   (B)   Dynamite. It is unlawful and an offense for any person to keep or
bring into, or permit to be kept or brought within, the town limits any
dynamite or nitroglycerine without the consent or permission of the Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-5B-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.05 CARRYING WEAPONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to carry concealed upon or about his or her
person any pistol, revolver, dagger, bowie knife, dirk knife, switchblade
knife, spring type knife, metal knuckle, or any other dangerous or deadly
weapon or firearm except when doing so in line of duty or as may be permitted
by state law.
(Prior Code, § 5-5B-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.06 FIREARMS.
   (A)   Reckless conduct. It is unlawful for any person to engage in reckless
conduct while having in his or her possession any shotgun, rifle, or pistol,
such actions consisting of creating a situation of unreasonable risk and
probability of death or great bodily harm to another, and demonstrating a
conscious disregard for the safety of another person.
   (B)   Discharging firearms. No person shall discharge any species of firearm
in the town except when doing so in the line of duty, when lawfully doing so in
defense of oneself, of another person, or of property, or when otherwise
authorized by state law or ordinance. It is unlawful to discharge an air rifle
or BB gun in the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-5B-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.07 LOUD NOISE OR MUSIC.
   (A)   Disturbing peace. It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace
and quietude of any part of the town by operating, having operated, or
permitting to be operated any contrivance, whether electric or not, any motor
vehicle, or any other device, with or without a loudspeaker, in such a manner
as to emit loud music, noise, or words. However, this section shall not
prohibit religious bodies from playing chimes, bells, carillons, or other
religious music.
   (B)   Motor vehicle amplification systems. Loud sound from amplification
systems in motor vehicles is prohibited.
      (1)   Audible distance. No person operating or occupying a motor vehicle
on a street, highway, alley, parking lot, or driveway shall operate or permit
the operation of any sound amplification system from within the vehicle so that
the sound is plainly audible at a distance of 100 or more feet from the
vehicle.
      (2)   Definition. PLAINLY AUDIBLE means any sound produced by a sound
amplification system from within the vehicle which clearly can be heard at a
distance of 100 or more feet. Measurement standards shall be done by the
auditory senses, based upon direct line of sight. Words or phrases need not be
discernible and bass reverberations are included. The motor vehicle may be
stopped, standing, parked, or moving on any street, public right-of-way,
highway, alley, parking lot, or driveway.
(Prior Code, § 5-5B-7) (Ord. passed 12-2-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH, WELFARE, AND MORALS
Section
   
133.01   Public intoxication
   
133.02   Possession, transportation, and sale of intoxicating beverages
   
133.03   Marijuana
   
133.04   Prostitution
   
133.05   Disorderly house
   
133.06   Indecent exposure
   
133.07   Obscenity
   
133.08   Vagrancy
   
133.09   Curfew
   
133.10   Sleeping in public
   
133.11   Loitering on public property
   
133.12   Begging
   
133.13   Gambling
   
133.14   Harmful deception
   
133.15   False or bogus checks
   
133.16   Swindling
   
133.17   Youth access to tobacco
   
133.18   Conduct prohibited on or near schools
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   (A)   Prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to appear or be upon or in
any street, alley, or other public place in the town in a state of
intoxication.
   (B)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, a STATE OF INTOXICATION
means the condition in which a person is under the influence of any
intoxicating, spirituous, vinous, or malt liquors, low point beer, or of any
narcotic or drug, to such extent as to deprive the person or his or her full
physical or mental power, or in which a person is a danger to himself, herself,
or others.
(Prior Code, § 5-5C-1) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 POSSESSION, TRANSPORTATION, AND SALE OF INTOXICATING BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Possession by persons under 21.
      (1)   Prohibited. It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years
to be in possession of any intoxicating alcoholic beverage or low point beer
while such person is upon any public street, road, or highway or in any public
place within the town limits.
      (2)   Duty of parent. It is unlawful for any parent or guardian of a
person under the age of 21 years to permit such person to be in possession of
an intoxicating alcoholic beverage or low point beer.
   (B)   Transporting alcoholic beverages.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any moving
vehicle upon a public highway, street, or alley any intoxicating beverage or
low point beer except in the original container, which shall not have been
opened and from which the original cap or seal shall not have been removed
unless the opened container be in the rear trunk or rear compartment. The REAR
TRUNK OR COMPARTMENT shall include the spare tire compartment in a station
wagon or panel truck or any outside compartment which is not accessible to the
driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is in motion.
      (2)   It is unlawful to have in possession or under control any
intoxicating liquor or beverage or low point beer except as permitted by law,
or to transport or in any manner convey from place to place in the town any
intoxicating liquor or beverage or low point beer except as permitted by law.
   (C)   Sale of alcoholic beverages.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to barter, sell, give away, or
otherwise furnish to another any intoxicating liquor or beverage or low point
beer of any kind as permitted by law.
      (2)   It is unlawful to loiter in a place where intoxicating liquor or
low point beer is sold, bartered, given away, or otherwise furnished contrary
to law.
      (3)   It is unlawful to keep, maintain, aid, or abet in keeping or
maintaining a place where intoxicating liquor or low point beer is sold,
bartered, given away, or otherwise furnished in violation of law.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, INTOXICATING BEVERAGE
and LOW POINT BEER shall be as defined in
Chapter 110 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-5C-2) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 MARIJUANA.
   (A)   Acts prohibited. It is unlawful for any person knowingly to:
      (1)   Manufacture, grow, harvest, cultivate, propagate, plant, compound,
convert, produce, process, test, pack, repack, store, distribute, dispense, or
possess with intent to manufacture, distribute, or dispense marijuana;
      (2)   Use, have, inject, inhale, otherwise introduce into the human body,
or possess marijuana;
      (3)   Use or possess drug paraphernalia or to deliver, possess, or
manufacture any such paraphernalia singly or in conjunction with any other
person; or
      (4)   Appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business, or
other public place in the town while under the influence of a controlled
dangerous substance or marijuana.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. Has the same meaning prescribed by 63 O.S. § 2-101,
including the factors to determine in 63 O.S. § 2-101.1.
      MARIJUANA. Has the same meaning prescribed by 63 O.S. § 2-101.
   (C)   Exception. This section shall not apply to any marijuana lawfully
obtained or authorized by valid prescription order from a licensed physician
while acting in the course of his or her professional practice.
(Prior Code, § 5-5C-3) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   Acts prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Be a prostitute;
      (2)   Solicit, entice, or procure another to commit or engage in any act
of prostitution;
      (3)   Engage in any act of prostitution;
      (4)   Knowingly let premises for purposes of prostitution;
      (5)   Conduct a business or premises for prostitution; or
      (6)   Be a party to an act of prostitution or solicitation of
prostitution in the limits of the town.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      LETTING PREMISES FOR PROSTITUTION. The granting of the right of use or
the leasing of any premises, knowing that they are to be used for the practice
of prostitution, or allowing the continued use of the premises with that
knowledge.
      PROSTITUTION. The giving of the body for sexual intercourse or sodomy for
hire or money.
      SOLICITING FOR PROSTITUTES. The soliciting, inviting, inducing,
directing, or transporting of a person to any place with the intention of
promoting prostitution.
(Prior Code, § 5-5C-4) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.05 DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   (A)   Defined; acts enumerated. A DISORDERLY HOUSE means any structure or
vehicle by which the peace, comfort, health, welfare, or decency of the public
is disturbed by reason of the people therein committing or resorting to any of
the following acts:
      (1)   The sale, distribution, possession, or use of any controlled
dangerous substance, the sale, distribution, possession, or use of which is
declared unlawful by state statute;
      (2)   The violation of any of the ordinances of the town or statutes of
this state regulating the sale, distribution, possession, or use of alcoholic
beverages, including beer containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume;
      (3)   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by state
statute or town ordinance including, but not limited to, soliciting for
purposes of prostitution; or
      (4)   The violation of any state statute or town ordinance prohibiting
gambling.
   (B)   Maintaining or leasing disorderly house.
      (1)   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet, or assist in
keeping and maintaining a disorderly house.
      (2)   No owner, lessee, lessor, or other person, partnership, or
corporation having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle,
mobile home, or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sublease, or
otherwise permit the use of same for the purpose of keeping therein any
disorderly house, and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building,
structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home, or recreational vehicle is so occupied
as a disorderly house, no persons, partnership, or corporation shall continue
to grant permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house.
   (C)   Residents and visitors. No person shall knowingly reside in, enter
into, or remain in a disorderly house. In any prosecution for violation of this
division (C), the town shall have the burden to prove such knowledge by direct
evidence only and not by circumstantial evidence. This section shall not apply
to physicians or officers in the discharge of their professional or official
duties.
(Prior Code, § 5-5C-5) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.06 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Appear in any public place in the town in a state of nudity;
   (B)   Appear in any public place in the town in any offensive, indecent, or
lewd dress; or
   (C)   Make an indecent public exposure of his or her person.
(Prior Code, § 5-5C-6) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.07 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC. The matter or performance may be purchased or
attended on a subscription basis, on a membership fee arrangement, or for a
separate fee for each item or performance.
      DISSEMINATE. To transfer possession of, with or without consideration.
      KNOWINGLY. Being aware of the character and the content of the material.
      MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, or other printed or written
material or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture, or other
pictorial representation, or any statue or other figure, or any recording,
transcription or mechanical, chemical, or electrical reproduction, or any other
articles, equipment, or machines.
      NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area
with less than a fully opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male
genitals in a discernible turgid state.
      OBSCENE. To the average person applying contemporary community standards:
         (a)   The predominant appeal of the matter, taken as a whole, is to
prurient interest (i.e., shameful or morbid interest in sexual conduct, nudity,
or excretion);
         (b)   The matter depicts or describes in a patently offensive manner
sexual conduct regulated by 21 O.S.; and
         (c)   The work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political, or scientific value.
      PERFORMANCE. Any preview, play, show, skit, film, dance, or other
exhibition performed before an audience.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation, or
other legal entity.
      PROMOTE. To cause, permit, procure, counsel, or assist.
      SERVICE TO PATRONS. The provision of services to paying guests in
establishments providing food and beverages; including, but not limited to,
hostessing, hat-checking, cooking, bartending, serving, table setting and
clearing, waiting and waitressing, and entertaining.
   (B)   Acts prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Knowingly disseminate, sell, offer for sale, publish, display,
distribute, make available to the public, or buy any obscene material;
      (2)   Knowingly engage in commerce for commercial gain with materials
depicting and describing explicit sexual conduct, nudity, or exhibition
utilizing displays, circulars, advertisements, and other public sales efforts
that promote such commerce primarily on the basis of their prurient appeal;
      (3)   Knowingly engage or participate in any obscene performance made
available to the public; or
      (4)   Provide service to patrons in such a manner as to expose to public
view:
         (a)   His or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal
region, or pubic hair region;
         (b)   Any device, costume, or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region, or
pubic hair region;
         (c)   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola thereof;
or
         (d)   Knowingly promote the commission of any of the unlawful acts
listed in this division (B).
   (C)   Violations; exceptions. Each complete or partial display or other
material exhibition of any motion picture film or other material shall be
deemed to constitute a separate offense. The provisions of this section shall
not apply to a projectionist, assistant projectionist, usher, or cashier,
provided such person has no financial interest in the motion picture theater so
long as that person is not acting as director or manager of the theater.
(Prior Code, § 5-5C-7) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.08 VAGRANCY.
   (A)   It is unlawful to be a vagrant in the limits of the town.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a VAGRANT means any person who
loiters or remains in, or wanders about, a public or private place for any of
the following purposes:
      (1)   For the purpose of gambling with cards, dice, or other gambling
paraphernalia;
      (2)   For the purpose of engaging in prostitution or soliciting
prostitution or soliciting for an act of lewdness;
      (3)   For the purpose of engaging in theft, or breaking and entering any
building, property, or automobile of another;
      (4)   For the purpose of injuring, destroying, molesting, or defacing any
property or another;
      (5)   For the purpose of assaulting any person;
      (6)   For the purpose of begging or soliciting alms, provided that this
section shall not apply to persons soliciting alms for bona fide religious,
charitable, or eleemosynary organizations with the authorization of such
organizations; or
      (7)   For the purpose of selling, purchasing, trading, or otherwise
exchanging, procuring, or making available illegal drugs or contraband.
(Prior Code, § 5-5C-8) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.09 CURFEW.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CUSTODIAN. Any person over the age of 21 years who is in loco parentis to
a minor.
      GUARDIAN. Any person over the age of 21 years who has legal guardianship
of a minor.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
      PARENT. The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, highway, alley, park, sidewalk, playground, or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment, or other lawful purpose. A PUBLIC PLACE shall include,
but not be limited to, any store, shop, tavern, restaurant, bowling alley,
café, theater, drugstore, poolroom, shopping center, and any other place
devoted to amusement or entertainment of the general public. It shall also
include the front or immediate area of the above.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any minor to remain, wander, stroll, or play in any
public place on foot, or to cruise about without a set destination in any
vehicle in, about, or upon any public place in the town between the hours of
11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless exempted under division (I) below.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation operating or
having charge of any public place to knowingly permit or suffer the presence of
minors between the hours of curfew designated in division (B) above.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any parent, guardian, custodian, or other adult
person having custody or control of any minor to suffer or permit or by
inefficient control to allow such person to be on any public place within the
town between the hours of curfew designated in division (B) above. The
provisions of this division (D) do not apply if:
      (1)   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian, or other
adult person having the care, custody, and control of such minor;
      (2)   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or
activity directed by his or her parent, guardian, custodian, or other adult
having the care, custody, and control of the minor;
      (3)   The parent, guardian, or other adult person herein has made a
missing person notification to the Town Police Department;
      (4)   Within one hour following the ending, closing, dismissal, or
adjournment of a meeting, service, or activity of, and sponsored by, a public
school, church, or religious organization, which has been participated in or
attended by such minor who is returning directly to his or her home or place of
abode; or
      (5)   When a minor has in his or her possession a written exemption
granted by the Chief of Police of the town.
   (E)   The Mayor may permit procedures for advance notice or registration
with the town of special events or functions sponsored by churches, schools,
clubs, or other organizations which require minors to be out at a later time.
The Mayor may also prescribe the procedures for taking into custody minors
found in violation of this section.
   (F)   (1)   A parent, guardian, or custodian of such minor may file a
written application directed to the Chief of Police of the town, who may grant
a special exemption of enforcement of the curfew provided by this section being
required as to such minor, which exemption shall not exceed five consecutive
days, or in the alternative, two days of any week for a period not to exceed 30
days.
      (2)   All requests shall be filed with the Clerk of the town.
   (G)   (1)   The Chief of Police shall have the authority to grant, or reject
or revoke, any request for an exemption to enforcement of the curfew provided
by this section or may reduce the time limit of such exemption.
      (2)   However, any applicant for such exemption feeling aggrieved by the
action of the Chief of Police may file a request for hearing before the Judge
of the Municipal Court of the town who shall summarily hear same, and his or
her judgment shall be final.
   (H)   Any law enforcement officer who shall witness any violations of this
section may take such offender into his or her custody to be prosecuted for
such violation, require the posting of a sufficient bond for such minor’
   (I)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 5-5C-9) (Ord. 117, passed 9-1-2009) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.10 SLEEPING IN PUBLIC.
   It is unlawful for any person, between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00
a.m., to sleep on any street, in any other public place, or on any property of
another without the express or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge
of such place.
(Prior Code, § 5-5C-10) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.11 LOITERING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for a person to be or remain on school property or within 300
feet of the premises of a public or private school, or in or about any other
public building, or in or about a depot of a public carrier, between the hours
of 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on any day unless permitted by the owner of the
property or the school district.
(Prior Code, § 5-5C-11) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.12 BEGGING.
   It is unlawful for any person to beg alms for any person, organization, or
agency except an organization or agency, public or private, whose purpose or
one of whose purposes is to aid persons in need.
(Prior Code, § 5-5C-12) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.13 GAMBLING.
   (A)   Acts prohibited. It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation,
or agent or employee thereof, to do any of the following:
      (1)   To play, to open or cause to be opened, or to operate, carry on, or
conduct, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, monte, poker, roulette,
craps, any banking, percentage, or other game played with dice, cards, or any
device, for money, checks, chips, credit, or any other thing of value;
      (2)   To set up, operate, or permit to be operated any slot machine or
other device whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit, or any other things
of value are played, when the act of playing the same might result in a gain or
loss to the party playing;
      (3)   To gamble knowingly in any other manner; or
      (4)   To knowingly permit his, her, or its premises, houses, lot, or
other property to be used in connection with, or for, any act declared unlawful
in this section.
   (B)   Playing machines prohibited. It is unlawful and an offense against the
town for any person to play any roulette wheel or slot machine or any other
device or machine wherein the element of chance is involved by losing or
winning money, credits, checks, or any other representatives of value.
   (C)   Proximity to gambling. It is unlawful for any person to be about in
the immediate vicinity where a person or persons are gambling, whether by
playing games, operating a slot machine or other device, or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 5-5C-13) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.14 HARMFUL DECEPTION.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm, or injury of the person deceived or
of a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(Prior Code, § 5-5C-14) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.15 FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, with intent to cheat and defraud, to
obtain or attempt to obtain from any person, firm, or corporation any money,
property, or valuable thing of the value of $50 or less by means of any false
or bogus check or by any other written or printed or engraved instrument or
spurious coin. The term FALSE OR BOGUS CHECK shall include checks or orders
given for money or property which are not honored on account of insufficient
funds of the maker to pay same, as against the maker or drawer thereof.
   (B)   The making, drawing, issuing, or delivering of a check, draft, or
order, payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence
of intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient funds in, or credit
with, such bank or other depository. Such maker or drawer shall not have paid
the drawee the amount due thereon, together with the protest fees, and the
check or order shall be presented for payment within 30 days after same is
delivered and accepted.
(Prior Code, § 5-5C-15) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.16 SWINDLING.
   It is unlawful to get money or property from any other person or persons or
businesses under false pretenses, deception, cheating, or by any other
fraudulent act.
(Prior Code, § 5-5C-16) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.17 YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. Any device that may be used to deliver any
aerosolized or vaporized substance to the person inhaling from the device,
including, but not limited to, an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, vape pen, or e-
hookah. ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE includes any component, part, or accessory of
the DEVICE, and also includes any substance that may be aerosolized or
vaporized by such DEVICE, whether or not the substance contains nicotine.
ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE does not include drugs, devices, or combination
products authorized for sale by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, as those
terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust,
or association, however formed.
      PLAYGROUNDS. Any area used for outdoor play or recreation, especially by
children, and often containing recreational equipment such as slides and
swings.
      PROOF OF AGE. A driver license, license for identification only, or other
generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual as 21
years of age or older and contains a photograph or other likeness of the
individual and appears on its face to be valid.
      SAMPLE. A tobacco product or vapor product distributed to members of the
public at no cost for the purpose of promoting the product.
      SAMPLING. The distribution of samples to members of the public in a
public place.
      SCHOOL.
         (a)   Any property, building, permanent structure, facility,
auditorium, stadium, arena, or recreational facility owned, leased, or under
the control of a public school district or private school or any educational
facility that is accredited by the state.
         (b)   SCHOOL includes all licensed childcare facilities,
kindergartens, elementary schools, which may include either K-6 or K-8, and all
secondary schools.
         (c)   SCHOOL includes any institution within the State System of
Higher Education or any other public or private college or university that is
accredited by a national accrediting body.
      TOBACCO PRODUCT.
         (a)   Any product that is made from or derived from tobacco, or that
contains nicotine, that is intended for human consumption or is likely to be
consumed, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, or
ingested by any other means, including, but not limited to, a cigarette, a
cigar, pipe tobacco, chewing tobacco, suff, or snus. TOBACCO PRODUCT also means
electronic smoking devices and any component or accessory used in the
consumption of a tobacco product, such as filters, rolling papers, pipes, and
liquids used in electronic smoking devices, whether or not they contain
nicotine. TOBACCO PRODUCTS does not include drugs, devices, or combination
products authorized for sale by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, as those
terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
         (b)   TOBACCO PRODUCT does not mean drugs, devices, or combination
products authorized for sale by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, as those
terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
      TRANSACTION SCAN. The process by which a seller checks, by means of a
transaction scan device, the validity of a driver license or other government-
issued photo identification.
      TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Any commercial device or combination of devices
used at a point of sale or entry that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver license or other government-issued photo identification.
      VAPOR PRODUCT. Noncombustible products that may or may not contain
nicotine, that employ a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic
circuit, or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to
produce a vapor in a solution or other form. VAPOR PRODUCTS shall include any
vapor cartridge or other container with or without nicotine or other form that
is intended to be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device. VAPOR
PRODUCTS do not include any products regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration under Chapter V of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   (B)   Furnishing or sale of tobacco products and vapor products to minors.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, give, or furnish in any
manner any tobacco, tobacco product, or vapor product to another person who is
under 21 years of age, or to purchase in any manner tobacco, a tobacco product,
or vapor product on behalf of any such person. It shall not be unlawful for an
employee under 21 years of age to handle tobacco, tobacco products, or vapor
products when required in performance of the employee’s duties.
      (2)   A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco, tobacco
products, or vapor products shall demand proof of age from a prospective
purchaser or recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the basis of
appearance that the prospective purchaser may be less than 21 years of age. If
an individual engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco, tobacco products,
or vapor products has demanded proof of age from a prospective purchaser or
recipient who is not under 21 years of age, the failure to subsequently require
proof of age shall not constitute a violation of this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and reasonably
relied upon proof of age shall be a defense to any action brought pursuant to
this division (B). A person cited for violating this section shall be deemed to
have reasonably relied upon proof of age, and such person shall not be found
guilty of the violation if such person proves that:
            1.   The individual who purchased or received the tobacco product
or vapor product presented a driver license or other government-issued photo
identification purporting to establish that such individual was 21 years of age
or older; or
            2.   The person cited for the violation confirmed the validity of
the driver license or other government-issued photo identification presented by
such individual by performing a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan
device.
         (b)   Provided, that this defense shall not relieve from liability any
person cited for a violation of this section if the person failed to exercise
reasonable diligence to determine whether the physical description and picture
appearing on the driver license or other government-issued photo identification
was that of the individual who presented it. The availability of the defense
described in this division (B)(3) does not affect the availability of any other
defense under any other provision of law.
   (C)   Distribution of tobacco product and vapor product samples.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or retailer to distribute
tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco or tobacco product samples, or vapor product
samples, to any person under 21 years of age.
      (2)   No person shall distribute tobacco, tobacco product, or vapor
product samples in or on any public street, sidewalk, or park that is within
300 feet of any playground, school, or other facility when the facility is
being used primarily by persons under 21 years of age.
   (D)   Public access to displayed tobacco products and vapor products. It is
unlawful for any person or retail store to display or offer for sale tobacco
products, including loosies, or vapor products in any manner that allows public
access to the tobacco product or vapor products without assistance from the
person displaying the tobacco product or vapor products or an employee or the
owner of the store. The provisions of this division (D) shall not apply to
retail stores which do not admit into the store persons under 21 years of age.
   (E)   Report of violations and compliance checks.
      (1)   Any conviction for a violation of this section and any compliance
checks conducted by the Police Department pursuant to division (E)(2) below
shall be reported in writing to the Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE)
Commission within 30 days of the conviction or compliance check. Such reports
shall be compiled in the manner prescribed by the ABLE Commission. Convictions
shall be reported by the Town Clerk or his or her designee and compliance
checks shall be reported by the Chief of Police or his or her designee.
      (2)   Persons under 21 years of age may be enlisted by the Police
Department to assist in enforcement of this section pursuant to the rules of
the ABLE Commission.
   (F)   Restriction on tobacco/e-cigarette retailers. No business license by
the town shall be located or operated at any place except at locations
permitted by the town’s zoning or planning laws. The location of a tobacco/e-
cigarette store is specifically prohibited within 300 feet of any playground,
school, or other facility when the facility is being used primarily by persons
under 21 years of age. The distance shall be measured as the shortest straight-
line distance from the property line of the proposed tobacco/e-cigarette store
to the property line of the entities listed below:
      (1)   Public or private school;
      (2)   Playgrounds; or
      (3)   Facility used primarily by persons under 21 years of age.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 2-8-2022; Ord. 2024-6-11, passed 6-13-2024) Penalty, see
§
133.99
§ 133.18 CONDUCT PROHIBITED ON OR NEAR SCHOOLS.
   No person shall engage in any behavior or perpetrate any of the acts
specified herein nearby or on the grounds of any school in the town, or in any
street or alley nearby a school:
   (A)   Any behavior that disrupts the organized behavior of the school;
   (B)   Irritating or molesting any student or employee of the school;
   (C)   Vulgar or immoral behavior; or
   (D)   Moving or parking any vehicle in the locality of any school or in any
street or alley bordering thereto in such a manner as to irritate or molest any
student or employee of the school.
(Prior Code, § 5-5C-18) (Ord. 2006-2, passed 11-8-2006) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate §
133.09 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in a sum not below
minimum fine set in bond schedule or exceed the maximum fine set in bond
schedule, including court costs.
(Prior Code, § 5-5C-9)
   (C)   (1)   Any violation of §
133.17(B)(1) or (B)(2) is an offense against the town. Upon conviction of any
such offense, the violator shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   Not more than $100 for the first offense;
         (b)   Not more than $200 for the second offense within a two-year
period following first offense;
         (c)   Not more than $300 for the third or subsequent offense within a
two-year period following the first offense; and
         (d)   Not more than $300 for a fourth or subsequent offense within a
two-year period following the first offense. In addition to any other penalty,
the store’s license to sell tobacco products or the store’s sales tax permit
for a store that is predominantly engaged in the sale of vapor products in
which the sale of other products is merely incidental may be suspended for a
period not exceeding 60 days.
      (2)   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a
continued sentence for a violation of §
133.17(C)(1) or (C)(2), the total of any fines, fees, or costs shall not exceed
the following:
         (a)   First offense: $100;
         (b)   Second offense: $200; and
         (c)   Third or subsequent offense: $300.
      (3)   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a
continued sentence for a violation of §
133.17(D), the total of any fines, fees, or costs shall not exceed $200 for
each offense.
      (4)   (a)   Any conviction for a violation of a municipal ordinance
authorized by the Prevention of Youth Access to Tobacco Act, being 63 O.S. §§
1-229.1 et seq., and any compliance checks by a municipal police officer or a
county sheriff pursuant to §
133.17(E) shall be reported in writing within 30 days of such conviction or
compliance check. Such reports shall be compiled in the manner prescribed by
the ABLE Commission.
         (b)   For the purpose of determining second or subsequent violations,
both the offenses penalized by the ABLE Commission as administrative fines and
the offenses penalized by municipalities and towns and reported to the ABLE
Commission shall be considered together in such determination.
(Ord. 117, passed 9-1-2009; Ord. 2022-03, passed 2-8-2022)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
134.01   Assault and battery
§ 134.01 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ASSAULT. Any intentional, willful, or unlawful attempt or offer with
force or violence to do a corporal hurt to another.
      BATTERY. Any intentional, willful, or unlawful use of force or violence
upon the person of another, or by making any physical contact with another
without consent.
   (B)   Prohibited. It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and
battery within the jurisdiction of the town. Any person committing an assault
or an assault and battery within the jurisdiction of the town shall be guilty
of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-5D-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
Section
   
135.01   Resisting officer
   
135.02   Failure to assist officer
   
135.03   Assault and battery upon officer
   
135.04   Rescuing prisoners
   
135.05   Escape of prisoners
   
135.06   Impersonating officer
   
135.07   False alarms
   
135.08   False representation
   
135.09   Removal of barricades
   
135.10   Resisting public officials
§ 135.01 RESISTING OFFICER.
   (A)   Interfering with officer. It is unlawful to resist, oppose, or
assault, or in any way interfere with, a police officer or any person duly
authorized to act as such, while the officer or person is discharging or
attempting to discharge his or her official duties within the limits of the
town.
   (B)   Signaling others; obstructing entrance. It is unlawful for any person
to warn or signal another so as to assist such other person to flee, escape, or
evade an officer seeking to make an arrest or for any person to bar or lock any
door or barrier in the face of or in front of an approaching officer.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      OBSTRUCTION OF. In addition to their common meaning, include:
         (a)   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer
can restrain him or her and after notice is given that he or she is under
arrest;
         (b)   Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the
arresting officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest or
before he or she is under arrest; or
         (c)   Refusal by the arrested party to give his or her name and make
his or her identity known to the arresting officer.
      RESISTING AN OFFICER. The intentional opposition or resistance to, or
obstruction of, an individual acting in his or her official capacity, and
authorized by law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property, or to serve
any lawful process or court order, when the offender knows or has reason to
know that the person arresting, seizing property, or serving process is acting
in his or her official capacity.
(Prior Code, § 5-5E-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.02 FAILURE TO ASSIST OFFICER.
   (A)   Call to assist. An officer of the town making or about to make an
arrest, or executing or about to execute a warrant or other process, in
accordance with the ordinances of the town or with state or federal law, or
suppressing or about to suppress a riot, affray, or unlawful assembly, may call
upon any person or persons to assist him or her in making such arrest,
executing such process or suppressing such riot, affray, or unlawful assembly.
   (B)   Failure to assist. It is unlawful for any person lawfully called upon
thus to assist an officer of the town to refuse or fail to do so.
(Prior Code, § 5-5E-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.03 ASSAULT AND BATTERY UPON OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly commit any assault, battery, or
assault and battery upon the person of a police officer or other officer of the
law while in the performance of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 5-5E-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.04 RESCUING PRISONERS.
   It is unlawful for any person, in any illegal manner, to set at liberty,
rescue, or attempt to set at liberty, any prisoner or prisoners, from any
officer or employee of the town having legal custody of the same or from a
place of confinement by the town, or to assist such prisoner in any manner to
escape from such prison or custody either before or after conviction, including
escape from a vehicle of confinement.
(Prior Code, § 5-5E-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.05 ESCAPE OF PRISONERS.
   It is unlawful for any person confined in a place of confinement by the
town, or working upon the streets or other public places of the town in
pursuance of any judgment, or otherwise held in legal custody by authority of
the town, to escape or attempt to escape from any such jail, prison, or
custody.
(Prior Code, § 5-5E-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.06 IMPERSONATING OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of the
town, falsely represent himself or herself to be an officer or employee of the
town, or exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions, or
powers of an officer or employee of the town without being duly authorized to
do so.
(Prior Code, § 5-5E-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.07 FALSE ALARMS.
   It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in
any manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the Fire Department or Police
Department or any officer or employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm
or reported fire, accident, or other emergency or knowingly to cause the Fire
Department or Police Department or its officers or employees to make a useless
run.
(Prior Code, § 5-5E-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.08 FALSE REPRESENTATION.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, or any agent or
employee thereof, knowingly to make any material misrepresentation to any
officer, employee, or agency of the town government in any official application
to, or official dealing or negotiation with, such officer or agency, or to
commit perjury before any tribunal or officer of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-5E-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.09 REMOVAL OF BARRICADES.
   It is unlawful for any person except by proper authority to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the town to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk, or other area.
(Prior Code, § 5-5E-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.10 RESISTING PUBLIC OFFICIALS.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or willfully to:
   (A)   Resist, oppose, or obstruct the Chief of Police, or any other police
officer, the Municipal Judge, or any other officer or employee of the town in
the discharge of his or her official duties;
   (B)   Threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to intimidate any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his or her official duties; or
   (C)   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, or use abusive
or indecent language toward or about any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 5-5E-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
151.   FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
      
152.   BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
      
153.   PLANNING AND ZONING
CHAPTER 150: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Trees and shrubbery; trimming required
   
150.02   Injuring trees and shrubbery
   
150.03   Obstruction of sidewalks and streets
   
150.04   Depositing trash upon streets or sidewalks
   
150.05   Playing on streets
   
150.06   Water from businesses
   
150.07   Hazard; duty of owner or occupant
   
150.08   Interference with drainage
   
150.09   Cuts and crossings
Address Numbers
   
150.20   Purpose
   
150.21   Compliance
   
150.22   Enforcement
 
   
150.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 150.01 TREES AND SHRUBBERY; TRIMMING REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of any premises abutting on any street of the town shall
trim all trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the sidewalks and
the roadway, of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any
part of the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or alley, in such
manner that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient
passage and travel along the streets, sidewalks, and alleys. When such premises
is occupied by some person other than the owner, such occupant shall trim the
trees and shrubbery in the same manner as hereinafter required of the owner.
Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest branches or
foliage shall not be lower than ten feet above the roadway of a street or
alley, nor lower than eight feet above the sidewalk.
   (B)   (1)   Any owner or occupant who shall fail, refuse, or neglect to trim
trees and shrubbery as provided in division (A) above, after receiving five
days’ notice from the head of the department in charge of streets to do so,
shall be guilty of an offense against the town.
      (2)   Every day that the owner or occupant shall fail, refuse, or neglect
to trim the trees or shrubbery, after the expiration of the five days’ notice,
shall be a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 INJURING TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery on a street or
alley in the town; provided that this shall not prohibit the lawful and proper
care and removal of such trees and shrubbery.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 OBSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS AND STREETS.
   (A)   Merchandise. It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
place upon or permit to be placed upon the sidewalks, parkways, streets, and
alleys of the town any goods, wares, articles of merchandise, or any other
obstruction, and leave same thereon, or to use the same as a place to carry on
a business or trade.
   (B)   Undue obstruction. It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation
to use or obstruct the sidewalks of the town in any manner so as to interfere
unduly with pedestrian traffic thereon, or to use or obstruct the streets and
alleys of the town in any manner so as to interfere unduly with lawful traffic
and parking thereon.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 DEPOSITING TRASH UPON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to deposit, throw, or
sweep into or upon the streets, alleys, parking, or sidewalks of the town any
paper, rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes, or
other refuse of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 PLAYING ON STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to play on the main traveled portion of the
streets and alleys of the town, except as may be authorized by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.06 WATER FROM BUSINESSES.
   It is unlawful for any owner or operator of a filling station or other place
of business, or any agent or employee thereof, to cause or allow water, grease,
or other fluid to flow or drain into, upon, over, or across any sidewalk,
parking, street, alley, or other public way.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.07 HAZARD; DUTY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting upon a
sidewalk area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the property
to become a hazard to persons using the sidewalk or sidewalk area.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-7) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.08 INTERFERENCE WITH DRAINAGE.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to obstruct any street,
sidewalk, or alley by placing any approach driveway or other obstruction or
substance whatever that will obstruct or prevent the natural flow of water into
the storm sewers or drains, or dam the same so as to back any water upon the
streets, alleys, sidewalks, or gutter.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-8) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.09 CUTS AND CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Method. The preferred method for laying lines in the town is boring.
   (B)   Requirements. If boring is not possible, all street cuts or crossings
that are necessary must comply with the following replacement requirements.
      (1)   Replacement dirt/clay must be compacted.
      (2)   Compacted replacement material must be covered with a layer of
gravel.
      (3)   Concrete street must be replaced with a minimum of 12 inches of
concrete.
      (4)   Asphalt streets must be replaced with a minimum of two inches of
asphalt.
      (5)   Replacement must be to the town’s satisfaction.
      (6)   The company or individual performing the cut or crossing is
responsible to correct sinking of the area for a time period of one year.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-9) (Res. passed 2-1-2000) Penalty, see §
150.99
**** ADDRESS NUMBERS ****
§ 150.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to enhance the easy and rapid location of
properties by law enforcement, fire, rescue, and emergency medical service
personnel in the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-1) (Ord. 2007-1, passed 10-2-2007)
§ 150.21 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   It is the duty of the record owner of every now existing, or future,
dwelling, building, or structure in the town to place and maintain thereon an
address number.
   (B)   Number must be displayed on the front of the structure in the vicinity
of the front door or entry.
   (C)   Number must be visible from the street and at least three inches high.
   (D)   Numbers must be a contrasting color to the background of the
structure.
   (E)   Must show the address number of the dwelling, building, or structure.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-2) (Ord. 2007-1, passed 10-2-2007) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.22 ENFORCEMENT.
   Failing to properly number a dwelling, building, or structure is a violation
of this subchapter, may impede emergency response times, and subject the owner
of the property to a fine as shown on the bond schedule.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-3) (Ord. 2007-1, passed 10-2-2007)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §§
150.01 through
150.09 shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99
(Prior Code, § 7-1-10)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
151.04   Definitions
   
151.05   Applicability; compliance; interpretation
   
151.06   Areas of special flood hazard
   
151.07   Development permit
   
151.08   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
151.09   Administrator; duties
   
151.10   Permit procedures; approval or denial
   
151.11   Variance procedures
   
151.12   General standards
   
151.13   Specific standards
   
151.14   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
151.15   Relief in courts
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located
in floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of floodprone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure the potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-1)
§ 151.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation which
results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of
commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public expenditures for
flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare. These flood losses are created by the cumulative
effect of obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights
and velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable
to floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed, or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-2)
§ 151.03 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations are established to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-3)
§ 151.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of an interpretation by the Floodplain
Administrator of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The AREA may
be designated as zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM). After
dedicated rate-making has been completed in preparation for publication of the
FIRM, zone A usually is refined into zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30, VE,
or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations.
   ELEVATED BUILDING.
      (1)   A nonbasement building that is:
         (a)   Built, in the case of a building in zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO,
AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the elevated floor, or in the case of a
building in zones V1-30, VE, or V, to have the bottom of the lowest horizontal
structure member of the elevated floor, elevated above the ground level by
means of pilings, columns (posts and piers), or shear walls parallel to the
floor or the water; and
         (b)   Adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity
of the building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood.
      (2)   In the case of zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, or D,
ELEVATED BUILDING also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid
foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movement of flood waters. In the case of zones V1-30, VE, or V, ELEVATED
BUILDING also includes a building otherwise meeting the definition of ELEVATED
BUILDING, even though the lower area is enclosed by means of breakaway walls if
the breakaway walls meet the standards of § 60.3(e)(5) of the National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community on which
the federal emergency management agency has delineated the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) related erosion areas having special hazards
have been designated as zone A, M, or E.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOODPRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see definition of FLOOD or FLOODING).
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the areas within a community subject to a special flood hazard and the extent
of the depths of associated flooding. Such a SYSTEM typically includes
hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees, or dikes. These specialized
flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
engineering standards.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of § 60.3 of the National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes, the term MANUFACTURED HOME also includes park trailers,
travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
180 consecutive days. For insurance purposes, the term MANUFACTURED HOME does
not include park trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulations adopted by the town.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law No. 97-348),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair, reconstruction,
replacement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
ACTUAL START DATE means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation, or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary form; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above-ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however,
include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a state inventory of historic places.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A
VARIANCE, therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise
prohibited by this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the town’s floodplain management regulations. A structure or
other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or
other evidence of compliance required in § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3),
(e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) of the National Flood Insurance Program regulations
is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-4)
§ 151.05 APPLICABILITY; COMPLIANCE; INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Applicability. This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood
hazard within the jurisdiction of the town.
   (B)   Compliance required. No structure or land shall hereafter be located,
altered, or have its use changed without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (C)   Conflict of provisions. This chapter is not intended to repeal,
abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes
the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (D)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the Board of Trustees; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-5)
§ 151.06 AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency on its flood hazard boundary map (FHBM), Community No.
400365B, dated August 22, 1975, and any revisions thereto, are hereby adopted
by reference and declared to be a part of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-6)
§ 151.07 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-7) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the town or any officer or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-8)
§ 151.09 ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   Designation. The building official is hereby appointed to administer
and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate sections of
44 C.F.R. (National Flood Insurance Program regulations) pertaining to
floodplain management.
   (B)   Duties. Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Inspection of records. Maintain and hold open for public inspection
all records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Review applications. Review permit applications to determine
whether a proposed building site will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (3)   Approve and deny permits. Review, approve, or deny all applications
for development permits required by this code;
      (4)   Review permits. Review permits for proposed development to assure
that all necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or
local governmental agencies, including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334, from which prior approval is
required;
      (5)   Interpretation of boundaries. Make the necessary interpretation
where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the boundaries of
the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there appears to be
conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions);
      (6)   Alteration of watercourses; notification. Notify, in riverine
situations, adjacent communities and the State Water Resources Board prior to
any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
      (7)   Maintenance of altered watercourses. Assure that maintenance is
provided within the altered or relocated portion of the watercourse so that the
flood carrying capacity is not diminished; and
      (8)   Base flood elevation data. When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with §
151.06, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data
available from a federal, state, or other source, in order to administer the
provisions of §§
151.12 through
151.14.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-9)
§ 151.10 PERMIT PROCEDURES; APPROVAL OR DENIAL.
   (A)   Application. Application for a development permit shall be presented
to the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may
include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the
location, dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing
and proposed structures, and the location of the foregoing in relation to areas
of special flood hazard. Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation, in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of §
151.13(B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      (5)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with §
151.09(B).
   (B)   Approval or denial. Approval or denial of a development permit by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
chapter and the following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
      (10)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-10)
§ 151.11 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Hearing. The Appeal Board, as established by the town, shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter. It shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when it is alleged
there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by the
Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of the chapter.
Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction. The Floodplain
Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal and
shall report variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency upon request.
Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or restoration
of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or the State
Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set forth in the
remainder of this chapter.
   (B)   Issuance of variances; conditions. Generally, variances may be issued
for new construction and substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the base flood level, providing the
relevant factors in §
151.10(B) have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-
half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases. Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Board of Trustees may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of §
151.01. Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (C)   Prerequisites. Prerequisites for granting variances include the
following.
      (1)   Minimal necessary variance. Variances shall only be issued upon a
determination that the variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood
hazard, to afford relief.
      (2)   Criteria. Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Insurance costs. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall
be given written notice that the structure permitted to be built with a lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation may result in an increased cost
of flood insurance commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (D)   New construction. Variances may be issued by the town for new
construction and substantial improvements and for other development necessary
for the construction of a functionally dependent use; provided that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in this section are met; and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damage during the base flood and create no additional threats to
public safety.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-11)
§ 151.12 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-12) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.13 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
151.06,
151.09, and
151.14, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the
Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this division (A), as proposed in
§
151.10, is satisfied.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to one or more
feet above the base flood level or, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, be designed so that below one foot above the base flood
level the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A
registered professional engineer or architect shall develop or review
structural design, specifications, and plans for the construction, and shall
certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
accepted standards of practice as outlined in this chapter. A record of such
certification which includes the specific evaluation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which such structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the
Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Manufactured homes. All manufactured homes to be placed within zone A
shall be installed using methods and practices which minimize flood damage. For
the purpose of this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and
anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of
anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame
ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable state and
local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-13) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.14 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   Compliance with requirements. All subdivision proposals, including
manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with §§
151.01 through
151.03.
   (B)   Development permit requirements. All proposals for the development of
subdivisions, including manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall meet
development permit requirements of sections §§
151.07,
151.10, and
151.12, to and including this section.
   (C)   Base flood elevation. Base flood elevation data shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed development including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five
acres, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
151.06 and
151.09
   (D)   Drainage. All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home parks
and subdivisions, shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
   (E)   Utilities. All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home
parks and subdivisions, shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to minimize
or eliminate flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-14) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.15 RELIEF IN COURTS.
   No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this chapter shall interfere with the
right of the town also to apply to the proper courts of the state for a
mandamus, an injunction, or other appropriate action against such person, firm,
or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-16)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall engage in any business, trade, or
vocation for which a license, permit, certificate, or registration is required
by this chapter, without having a valid license, permit, certificate, or
certificate of registration as required, or who shall fail to do anything
required by this chapter or by any code adopted by this chapter, or who shall
otherwise violate any provision of this chapter or of any code adopted by this
chapter, or who shall violate any lawful regulation or order made by any of the
officers provided for in this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-15)
CHAPTER 152: BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Liquefied petroleum gas
   
152.002   Gas Piping Code
Building Code
   
152.015   Building Code adopted
   
152.016   Additions and changes
   
152.017   Building official
   
152.018   Fire limits
   
152.019   Permit; fee
   
152.020   Subdivisions; floodplain requirement
   
152.021   Relief in courts
Plumbing Code
   
152.035   Adoption of Plumbing Code
   
152.036   Additions, insertions, and changes
   
152.037   Licenses
   
152.038   Permits and inspections
   
152.039   Relief in courts
Electrical Code
   
152.050   Definition
   
152.051   Electrical Code adopted
   
152.052   Compliance with provisions
   
152.053   Special rulings
   
152.054   Electrical permit
   
152.055   Inspection fee
   
152.056   Licenses
   
152.057   Relief in courts
Fire Prevention Code
   
152.070   Code adopted
   
152.071   Enforcement
   
152.072   Definition
   
152.073   Storage of flammable liquids, liquefied petroleum gases, explosives,
and blasting agents
   
152.074   Modifications
   
152.075   Appeals
 
   
152.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 152.001 LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS.
   (A)   Code adopted. It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
manufacture, fabricate, assemble, install, or repair any system, container,
apparatus, or appliance to be used for the transportation, storage, dispensing,
or utilization of liquefied petroleum gas, or to transport, handle, or store
such gas, unless such person has complied with and complies with all provisions
of the law and ordinances relating thereto, and has any license or permit which
may be required by state law. The pamphlet “Storage and Handling of Liquefied
Petroleum Gases,” as contained in Pamphlet No. 58 issued by the National Fire
Protection Association, the latest edition thereof, adopted by the State
Liquefied Petroleum Gas Board, shall have full force and effect within the
town. A copy of said pamphlet is available for inspection in the office of the
Town Clerk. Any violation of these rules and regulations shall be deemed a
violation of the ordinances of the town and shall be punished accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-1)
   (B)   Relief in courts. No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this section
shall interfere with the right of the town also to apply to the proper courts
of the state for a mandamus, an injunction or other appropriate action against
such person, firm, or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-3)
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.002 GAS PIPING CODE.
   (A)   Pamphlet adopted. Pamphlet No. 54 published by the National Fire
Protection Association, entitled “National Fuel Gas Code,” the latest edition
thereof, is hereby adopted and incorporated in this code by reference. A copy
of said pamphlet is available for inspection in the office of the Town Clerk.
The pamphlet shall be in full force and effect in the town and shall govern the
installation of gas piping and gas appliances in the town. Any violation of the
provisions of the pamphlet shall be deemed a violation of the ordinances of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-1)
   (B)   Relief in courts. No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this section
shall interfere with the right of the town also to apply to the proper courts
of the state for a mandamus, an injunction, or other appropriate action against
such person, firm, or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-3)
Penalty, see §
152.999
**** BUILDING CODE ****
§ 152.015 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The BOCA, Basic/National Building Code is the building code for the town,
both for new construction and remodeling. The electrical and plumbing
contractors-journeymen must hold a related state current license.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1) (Ord. 170A, passed 5-4-2010) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.016 ADDITIONS AND CHANGES.
   The following sections of the BOCA Basic Building Code are hereby revised:
   (A)   Section 100.1, insert: “Town of Davenport;”
   (B)   Section 114.3.1, insert: “The fee schedule shall be in accordance with
the town code, or as may be set or amended by motion or resolution;”
   (C)   Section 117.4, insert: “Offense, punishable by fine and imprisonment
as provided in §
10.99 of the town code;”
   (D)   Section 118.2, insert: “fine as provided in §
10.99 of the town code;”
   (E)   Section 123.3, insert: “as set by the Town Board of Trustees;”
   (F)   Section 501.2, insert: “the boundaries of the fire limits as provided
by the Town Board;”
   (G)   Sections 1807.2.1 and 1807.22, insert: “a number of feet to be
determined by the Town Board of Trustees by motion or resolution” in both
locations; and
   (H)   Section 1906.1, insert: “Amounts as set by the Town Board of Trustees
by motion or resolution.”
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2) (Ord. 170A, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.017 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The building official of this town shall be appointed by the Town Board of
Trustees and shall have the powers and duties for the building official by the
Town Building Code; provided, that his or her powers and duties may be
exercised by his or her authorized representatives under his or her supervision
and control. The term BUILDING INSPECTOR, whenever used in the ordinances of
the town, means the building official. The terms ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR, PLUMBING
INSPECTOR, and GAS INSPECTOR, wherever used in the ordinances of the town, also
each refer to and mean the building official, unless a separate electrical
inspector, plumbing inspector, and/or gas inspector is appointed by the Town
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-3) (Ord. 170A, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.018 FIRE LIMITS.
   The fire limits are that part of the town bounded as provided by the Board
of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-4) (Ord. 170A, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.019 PERMIT; FEE.
   (A)   Permit required. No building or other structure shall be built,
enlarged, altered, or moved without a building permit as required by the Town
Building Code.
   (B)   Application. It is unlawful for any person or corporation to
construct, alter, move, or demolish a building or structure, or to begin to do
the same, without securing a permit from the town. The applicant shall submit
with the application such reasonable information as the Clerk may require
enabling him or her to determine the granting of the permit. The applicant must
present proof of workers’ compensation and general liability insurance and also
a diagram regarding right-of-way easements.
   (C)   Fee.
      (1)   The fees are as follows.
 Cost
                                                                       Cost
Commercial
Additional construction or remodeling                                   $15
Demolition (demolition fee to be refunded upon completion of work and   $100
debris removed)
New construction (includes electrical, HVAC, plumbing, and paving work) $25
Other                                                                   $15
Residential
Additional construction or remodeling                                   $15
Demolition (Demolition fee to be refunded upon completion of work and   $100
debris removed)
New construction (includes electrical, HVAC, plumbing, and paving work) $25
Other                                                                   $15
 
      (2)   Four dollars of the above building fees will be collected starting
June 1, 2010, with report form and fees to be submitted to the State Uniform
Building Code Commission starting July 1, 2010.
   (D)   Prohibited uses. It is unlawful to construct or remodel or use any
existing structure as a:
      (1)   Halfway house;
      (2)   Residence for house arrest; or
      (3)   Home for intellectually disabled persons who are classified as
uncontrollable.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-5) (Ord. 170A, passed 5-4-2010) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.020 SUBDIVISIONS; FLOODPLAIN REQUIREMENT.
   Issuance of all building permits shall be subject to the provisions of
Chapter 151 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-6) (Ord. 170A, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.021 RELIEF IN COURTS.
   No penalty imposed shall interfere with the right of the town also to apply
to the proper courts of the state for a mandamus, an injunction, or other
appropriate action against such person, firm, or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-8) (Ord. 170A, passed 5-4-2010)
**** PLUMBING CODE ****
§ 152.035 ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE.
   A certain document, at least one copy of which is on file in the office of
the Town Clerk, being marked and designated as the “BOCA/National Basic
Plumbing Code,” the latest edition thereof, and any revisions or amendments
thereto, as published by the Building Officials and Code Administrators
Internationals, Inc., is hereby adopted as the Plumbing Code of the town for
the control of all buildings and structures as therein provided. Each and all
of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions, and term of the BOCA
Plumbing Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this code, with additions, insertions, and changes, if any,
prescribed in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1)
§ 152.036 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS, AND CHANGES.
   The following sections are hereby revised as follows:
   (A)   Section P-100.1 (page five, second line), insert: “the Town of
Davenport;”
   (B)   Section P-104.1 (page six, second line), insert: “effective date of
the town’s code of ordinances;”
   (C)   Section P-114.2 (page 12, third line), insert: “as provided in §
152.038 of the town code:”
   (D)   Section P-117.4 (page 13, fifth, sixth, and seventh lines):, insert:
“offense and punishable as provided in §
10.99 of the town code;”
   (E)   Section P-118.2 (page 14, fifth line), insert: “fine as provided in §
10.99 of the town code;”
   (F)   Section P-303.2 (page 32, third line), insert: “a distance in feet as
determined by the Town Board of Trustees;” and
   (G)   Section P-308.3 (page 33, second and third lines), insert: “a depth in
feet as determined by the Town Board of Trustees.”
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2)
§ 152.037 LICENSES.
   (A)   Definitions. The phrases and words JOURNEYMAN PLUMBER, PLUMBER’S
APPRENTICE, PLUMBING CONTRACTOR, and PLUMBING, when used in the ordinances,
regulations, and other official acts and communications in this town, shall
have the meanings respectively prescribed for them by 59 O.S. §§ 1001 et seq.,
the State Plumbing License Law, unless the context clearly indicates a
different meaning.
   (B)   State license required. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business, trade, or occupation of a plumbing contractor (otherwise known as a
master plumber), or of a journeyman plumber, or of a plumber’s apprentice, in
this town unless he or she has a current and valid license issued by the state.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-3) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.038 PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   No plumbing work shall be undertaken without a permit from the
plumbing inspector.
   (B)   The application for such work must follow the adopted town code.
   (C)   The schedule of permit fees may be set forth by resolution or motion
of the Town Board. Such payment will be made upon application.
   (D)   Inspection of such work must conform to the guidelines set forth in
the town code.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-4) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.039 RELIEF IN COURTS.
   No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this subchapter shall interfere with
the right of the town also to apply to the proper courts of the state for a
mandamus, an injunction, or other appropriate action against such person, firm,
or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-6)
**** ELECTRICAL CODE ****
§ 152.050 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT. Refers to electrical conductors, metallic raceways,
fittings, devices, fixtures, appliances, apparatus, and any electrical material
of any nature, kind, or description, to be installed within or on any building
or structure.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1)
§ 152.051 ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   All installations of electrical equipment shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this subchapter, with the statutes of the state, and any orders,
rules, and regulations issued by authority thereof, and with approved
electrical standards for safety to persons and property. Where no specific
standards are prescribed by this subchapter or by the statutes of the state or
by any orders, rules, or regulations issued by authority thereof, conformity
with the regulations set forth in the current issue of the National Electrical
Code, as approved by the American Insurance Association, shall be prima facie
evidence of conformity with approved standards for safety to persons or to
property. A copy of said code is on file and available for inspection in the
office of the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-2)
§ 152.052 COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All electrical equipment installed or used shall be in conformity with
the provisions of this subchapter, the statutes of the state, and any orders,
rules, and regulations issued by the authority thereof, and with approved
electrical standards for safety to persons or to property.
   (B)   Unless by this subchapter, by a statute of the state, or any orders,
rules, or regulations issued by authority thereof, a specific type or class of
electrical equipment is disapproved for installation and use, conformity with
the standards of Underwriters’ Laboratories, Inc., shall be prima facie
evidence of conformity with approved standards for safety to persons or to
property.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-3) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.053 SPECIAL RULINGS.
   The Board of Trustees of the town, by motion or resolution, shall have the
authority to make special rulings, when circumstances warrant, for the
safeguarding of life and property and the improvement of electrical
installations. In all cases, persons engaged in the installing of electrical
equipment and holding an electrical license must be notified by letter of these
decisions.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-4)
§ 152.054 ELECTRICAL PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required. It is unlawful for any person to install any
electrical wiring, fixtures, or apparatus in or on any building or structure in
the corporate limits of the town or make extensions to any existing electrical
installations without first securing a permit from the town.
   (B)   Application. Applications for electrical permits shall be made to the
Town Clerk, and the applicant shall provide such plans, specifications, and
other data as may be reasonably required.
   (C)   Fee. The fee for an electrical permit shall be as prescribed by motion
or resolution passed by the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-5) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.055 INSPECTION FEE.
   The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may prescribe an
inspection fee to be paid to the town when electrical installations are
inspected by the Electrical Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-6)
§ 152.056 LICENSES.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business, trade, or vocation
of electrical contractor, journeyman electrician, or apprentice electrician
without a license as such secured from the state.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-7) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.057 RELIEF IN COURTS.
   No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this subchapter shall interfere with
the right of the town also to apply to the proper courts of the state for a
mandamus, an injunction, or other appropriate action against such person, firm,
or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-9)
**** FIRE PREVENTION CODE ****
§ 152.070 CODE ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted by the Town Board of Trustees for the purpose of
prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property
from fire or explosion that certain code known as the Fire Prevention Code,
recommended by the National Fire Protection Association, being particularly the
current edition thereof and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as
are hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended. Not less than one copy of the
code has been filed in the office of the Clerk of the town and the same is
hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. The
provisions of the Fire Prevention Code shall be controlling within the limits
of the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1)
§ 152.071 ENFORCEMENT.
   The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Chief of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-2)
§ 152.072 DEFINITION.
   Wherever the word MUNICIPALITY is used in the Fire Prevention Code hereby
adopted, it shall be held to mean the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-3)
§ 152.073 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS, LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES, EXPLOSIVES,
AND BLASTING AGENTS.
   The limits referred to in the Fire Prevention Code, in which storage of
flammable liquids in outside above-ground tanks is prohibited, the limits
referred to in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted, and
the limits in which storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited,
are hereby established as the fire limits provided in §
152.018.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-4) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.074 MODIFICATIONS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the code hereby adopted in his or her own discretion or upon
application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his or her duly authorized
agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the
letter of the code; provided, that the spirit of the code shall be observed,
public safety secured, and substantial justice done. The particulars of such
modifications, when granted or allowed, and the decision of the Chief of the
Fire Department thereon, shall be entered upon the records of the Department
and for applications requesting change, a signed copy shall be furnished the
applicant.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-5)
§ 152.075 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the
decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to the Town Board of Trustees
within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-6)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall engage in any business,
trade, or vocation for which a license, permit, certificate, or registration is
required by §
152.001, without having a valid license, permit, certificate, or certificate of
registration as required, or who shall fail to do anything required by §
152.001 or by any code adopted by §
152.001, or who shall otherwise violate any provision of §
152.001 or of any code adopted by §
152.001, or who shall violate any lawful regulation or order made by any of the
officers provided for in §
152.001, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-2)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall engage in any business,
trade, or vocation for which a license, permit, certificate, or registration is
required by §
152.002, without having a valid license, permit, certificate, or certificate of
registration as required, or who shall fail to do anything required by §
152.002 or by any code adopted by §
152.002, or who shall otherwise violate any provision of §
152.002 or of any code adopted by §
152.002, or who shall violate any lawful regulation or order made by any of the
officers provided for in §
152.002, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-2)
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates a provision of §§
152.015 through
152.021, or fails to comply therewith or with any of the requirements or
restrictions, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished with the general penalty described in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-7)
   (E)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall engage in any business,
trade, or vocation for which a license, permit, certificate, or registration is
required by §§
152.035 through
152.039, without having a valid license, permit, certificate, or certificate of
registration as required, or who shall fail to do anything required by §§
152.035 through
152.039 or by any code adopted by §§
152.035 through
152.039, or who shall otherwise violate any provision of §§
152.035 through
152.039 or of any code adopted by §§
152.035 through
152.039, or who shall violate any lawful regulation or order made by any of the
officers provided for in §§
152.035 through
152.039 shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-5)
   (F)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall engage in any business,
trade, or vocation for which a license, permit, certificate, or registration is
required by §§
152.050 through
152.057, without having a valid license, permit, certificate, or certificate of
registration as required, or who shall fail to do anything required by §§
152.050 through
152.057 or by any code adopted by §§
152.050 through
152.057, or who shall otherwise violate any provision of §§
152.050 through
152.027 or of any code adopted by §§
152.050 through
152.057, or who shall violate any lawful regulation or order made by any of the
officers provided for in §§
152.050 through
152.057, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-8)
   (G)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §§
152.070 through
152.075 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-7)
(Ord. 170A, passed 5-4-2010)
CHAPTER 153: PLANNING AND ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Area regulations
   
153.02   General Residential District
Mobile Homes
   
153.15   Definition
   
153.16   Lot regulations
   
153.17   Supporting foundations; skirting
   
153.18   Setback and driveway provisions
   
153.19   Utility hookups and meters
   
153.20   Accessory or supporting structures
   
153.21   Application for permits
   
153.22   Failure to comply
   
153.23   Relief in courts
 
   
153.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 153.01 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Fences, walls, and hedges.
      (1)   Fences, walls, and hedges in Residential Districts may be erected
in any required yard, or along the edge of any yard; provided, that no opaque
fence, wall, or hedge located in front of the building line shall exceed three
feet in height, except that an open type fence shall exceed three feet in
height, except that an open type fence such as chain link shall be allowed to a
height not to exceed four feet, and no other wall or fence shall exceed six
feet in height. A permit required for a new fence.
      (2)   Where the dedicated street right-of-way is less than 50 feet, the
depth of the front yard shall be measured starting at a point 25 feet from the
centerline of the street easement.
      (3)   A fence may be erected along the property line.
      (4)   Where the side yard borders a dedicated street, the depth of the
side yard shall be measured starting at a point 25 feet from the centerline of
the street easement. The height of the fence shall not exceed three feet in
height for an opaque fence, wall, or hedge, except that an open type fence such
as chain link shall be allowed to a height not to exceed four feet from the
center of the cross street, back 25 feet.
      (5)   Fence construction may consist of hedges, chain link, wood,
concrete, brick, metal, vinyl, or iron.
   (B)   Dwellings abutting streets; garage apartments.
      (1)   A permit is required for all new construction.
      (2)   No dwelling shall be erected on a lot that does not abut on at
least one street for at least 35 feet.
      (3)   A street shall form the direct and primary means of ingress and
egress for all dwellings.
      (4)   Alleys, where they exist, shall form only a secondary means of
ingress and egress.
      (5)   A garage apartment may be built to the rear of a main dwelling if
all other provisions of this code are complied with.
   (C)   Commercial and industrial uses; parking. It is the intent of this
section that lots of sufficient size be used by any business or industry to
provide adequate on-site parking and loading and unloading space required for
operation of the enterprise.
   (D)   Corner lots. On any corner lot on which a front and side yard is
required, no wall, fence, sign, structure, or any plant growth which obstructs
sightlines at elevations between two feet six inches and six feet above any
portion of the crown of the adjacent roadway shall be maintained in a triangle
formed by measuring from the point of intersection of the front and exterior
side lot lines a distance of 25 feet along the front and side lot lines and
connecting the points so established to form a sight triangle on the area of
the lot adjacent to the street intersection.
   (E)   Garage location. An attached or detached private garage which faces on
a street shall not be located closer than 25 feet to the street easement line.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 8-4-2020) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.02 GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Front yard.
      (1)   The minimum depth of the front yard shall be 25 feet.
      (2)   If 25% or more of the lots on one side of the street between two
intersecting streets are improved with buildings, all of which have observed an
average setback line of greater than 25 feet, and no building varies more than
five feet from the average setback line, then no building shall be erected
closer to the street line than the minimum setback so established by the
existing buildings, but this regulation shall not require a front yard of
greater depth than 50 feet.
      (3)   When a yard has double frontage, the front yard requirements shall
be complied with on both streets.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   For dwellings located on interior lots, there shall be a side yard
on each side of the main building of not less than eight feet from the property
line.
      (2)   For unattached buildings of accessory use, there shall be a side
yard of not less than four feet from the property line, except when side yard
borders an easement or alley, then the setback will be a minimum of eight feet.
   (C)   Rear yard.
      (1)   There shall be a rear yard for a main building of not less than 20
feet or 20% of the depth of the lot, whichever amount is smaller.
      (2)   Unattached buildings of accessory use may be located in the rear
yard of a main building, provided a setback of four feet from property line or
eight feet from property line bordering an alley or easement. Permit required.
      (3)   For dwellings, there shall be a minimum lot width of 50 feet, and
such lot shall abut on a street for a distance of not less than 35 feet.
   (D)   Swimming pools.
      (1)   In-ground pools will be located in the rear yard and shall have a
setback from side property line of eight feet and ten feet from rear property
line. Permit required. Fenced yard is required.
      (2)   Above-ground pools left up year-round will be located in the rear
yard and shall have a setback of eight feet from all property lines. Fenced
yard is required.
   (E)   Storm shelters. Storm shelters shall have a setback from side property
line of eight feet and ten feet from rear property line. Permit required.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 8-4-2020) Penalty, see §
153.99
**** MOBILE HOMES ****
§ 153.15 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOBILE HOME. A manufactured single-family dwelling, not less than 40 feet
in length nor less than 12 feet in width, designed for transportation on
streets or highways on its own wheels or transported by any truck or rail type
transportation to any location ready to be occupied as a living quarters
containing a flush toilet and bath.
   (B)   Units described as travel trailers or motor homes will not be
considered a single-family dwelling.
   (C)   Mobile homes over five years old, or in a dilapidated condition, will
not be considered for a permit to locate in the municipal limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-1) (Ord. 187, passed 11-7-1995)
§ 153.16 LOT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Mobile homes located in the municipal limits of the town shall be
placed on lots of not less than 50 feet, and 120 feet in length for a minimum
total of 6,000 square feet. Double-wide mobile homes shall be placed on lots of
not less than 75 feet in width and 120 feet in length, for a minimum total of
9,000 square feet. A mobile home may not be placed on a lot occupied by another
dwelling.
   (B)   When more than one mobile home is placed on the same block, the mobile
homes will not be placed closer than 30 feet from each other.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-2) (Ord. 187, passed 11-7-1995) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.17 SUPPORTING FOUNDATIONS; SKIRTING.
   (A)   Supporting foundation. The supporting foundation for mobile homes
shall be of concrete and shall be:
      (1)   Twenty-four inches by 24 inches by 24 inches (level with ground),
with the first and last piers one foot from ends of house, and space subsequent
piers approximately seven feet apart from center to center of mobile home;
      (2)   Two 24-inch by 24-inch runners (level with ground), the length of
the mobile home; or
      (3)   A solid concrete slab the length and width of the mobile home.
   (B)   Anchoring. The mobile home shall be equipped with anchoring, which may
include, but is not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground
anchors which must be drilled type anchors at a minimum of two feet into
ground, as prescribed by applicable state insurance requirements.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-3) (Ord. 187, passed 11-7-1995) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.18 SETBACK AND DRIVEWAY PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The mobile home shall be set back far enough on the lots to
accommodate a two-car drive, which shall be made of rock, concrete, or asphalt.
   (B)   There shall be a minimum of a 12-inch or larger culvert pipe under the
driveway, installed level with the drainage ditch. The culvert shall be
corrugated steel or steel pipe, inspected by street personnel for proper
installation.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-4) (Ord. 187, passed 11-7-1995) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.19 UTILITY HOOKUPS AND METERS.
   (A)   All mobile homes must be connected to the sanitary sewer and have
their own metering for water and gas, all of which conform to the ordinances
and regulations pertaining to utility service of this municipality.
   (B)   All water taps must be made by town operators.
   (C)   All sewer taps must be made by licensed plumbers, inspected by town
operators.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-5) (Ord. 187, passed 11-7-1995) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.20 ACCESSORY OR SUPPORTING STRUCTURES.
   A separate application must be made and approval obtained for the building
of each accessory or supporting building or structure, including a garage, or
for alteration, enlargement, or change in any application previously approved.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-6) (Ord. 187, passed 11-7-1995) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.21 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   Contents. Application for a permit shall be made in writing to the
Town Clerk. The application shall state:
      (1)   The proposed location (legal description) of lot or street address
where the mobile home is to be placed;
      (2)   Size and type of said mobile home, size of the lot on which the
mobile home is to be placed, and a diagram showing measurements of the lot and
mobile home detailing proposed location of mobile home upon the lot together
with measurements showing the distance between the mobile home from the front,
side, and rear boundaries of the lot;
      (3)   Proposed method of sewage, water, and electricity connections; and
      (4)   Type of proposed foundation.
   (B)   Fees. The applicant shall pay all fees in accordance with the schedule
of fees in force for permits.
   (C)   Approval. The application shall be subject to the approval of the
Board of Trustees of the town.
   (D)   Waiver.
      (1)   In all instances where a waiver is requested related to any section
of this subchapter, said waiver must be heard by the Board of Trustees and
approval and disapproval given by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance would not create
a nuisance, conflict with existing local laws or ordinances, or result in
threats to public safety.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-7) (Ord. 187, passed 11-7-1995)
§ 153.22 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Any applicant failing to comply with any section of this subchapter will not
be eligible for service from the Town Utility Authority.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-8) (Ord. 187, passed 11-7-1995)
§ 153.23 RELIEF IN COURTS.
   No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this subchapter shall interfere with
the right of the town also to apply to the proper courts of the state for a
mandamus, an injunction, or other appropriate action against such person, firm,
or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-10) (Ord. 187, passed 11-7-1995)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provisions of §§
153.15 through
153.23, or who violates, or refuses, or neglects to carry out any reasonable
order made by the governing board, shall be punishable by a fine as set forth
in §
10.99 for each day of violation.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-9) (Ord. 187, passed 11-7-1995)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   CONTRACTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
162A          2-1-1982    Granting a franchise for CATV systems.
                          (Prior Code, § 7-6)
                         
 
TABLE II: CONTRACTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
R. -          4-9-2024    Contracting with Countryside Veterinary Services for
                          shelter services.
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OKLAHOMA STATUTES
O.S. Cite Code Section
O.S. Cite                     Code Section
11 O.S. 1-102                 93.023
11 O.S. 12-101                30.01
11 O.S. 14-101 et seq.        Ch. 10
11 O.S. 14-108                10.01
11 O.S. 14-109                10.01
11 O.S. 22-101 et seq.        Ch. 10
11 O.S. 27-101                33.01
11 O.S. 27-102                33.01
11 O.S. 27-111                33.09
11 O.S. 27-123                33.23
11 O.S. 27-124                33.23
21 O.S.                       130.01;
                              133.07
22 O.S. 1115.1 through 1115.5 33.15
25 O.S. 301 et seq.           30.03
37A                           110.08
37A O.S. 1-101 et seq.        110.01;
                              110.02
37A O.S. 1-103                35.021
37A O.S. 7-102                35.021
47 O.S. 1-101 et seq.         70.01;
                              70.30
47 O.S. 1-103.1               72.11
47 O.S. 1-125                 74.22
47 O.S. 7-204                 70.15
47 O.S. 7-503                 70.15
47 O.S. 7-606                 70.15
47 O.S. 11-101 et seq.        70.30
47 O.S. 12-417                72.11
47 O.S. 15-112                73.09
50 O.S. 12                    93.045
50 O.S. 14                    93.046
50 O.S. 15                    93.046
50 O.S. 16                    93.047
50 O.S. 17                    93.048
51 O.S. 121 et seq.           31.11
59 O.S. 1001 et seq.          152.037
63 O.S. 1-229.1 et seq.       133.99
63 O.S. 1-1011                93.049
63 O.S. 2-101                 133.03
63 O.S. 2-101.1               133.03
63 O.S. 4001 et seq.          90.20
63 O.S. 4202 et seq.          90.20
68 O.S. 205                   35.033;
                              35.076
68 O.S. 217                   35.031;
                              35.073
68 O.S. 220                   35.031;
                              35.074
68 O.S. 227                   35.032;
                              35.075
68 O.S. 1352                  35.021
68 O.S. 1401                  35.079
                              35.066;
                              35.067;
68 O.S. 1401 et seq.          35.071;
                              35.080;
                              35.081
68 O.S. 1408                  35.071
68 O.S. 1622                  132.03
75 O.S. 250 et seq.           33.07
                              
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2026 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2026 Code Section
1-4-1              10.99
1-4-2              10.99
1-4-3              10.99
1-4-4              10.99
1-5-1              11.01
1-6-1              30.01
1-6-2              30.02
1-6-3              30.03
1-6-4              30.04
1-6-5              30.05
1-7-1              30.20
1-7-2              30.21
1-7-3              30.22
1-8-1              31.01
1-8-2              31.02
1-8-3              31.03
1-8-4              31.04
1-8-5              31.05
1-8-6              31.06
1-8-7              31.07
1-8-8              31.08
1-8-9              31.09
1-8-10             31.10
1-9-1              31.11
1-9-2              31.11
1-9-3              31.11
1-9-4              31.11
1-9-5              31.11
1-9-6              31.11
1-10-1             32.14
1-10-2             32.14
1-10-3             32.14
1-11-1             33.01
1-11-2             33.02
1-11-3             33.03
1-11-4             33.04
1-11-5             33.05
1-11-6             33.06
1-11-7             33.07
1-11-8             33.08
1-11-9             33.09
1-11-10            33.10
1-11-11            33.11
1-11-12            33.12
1-11-13            33.13
1-11-14            33.14
1-11-15            33.15
1-11-16            33.16
1-11-17            33.17
1-11-18            33.18
1-11-19            33.19
1-11-20            33.20
1-11-21            33.21
1-11-22            33.22
1-11-23            33.23
1-11-24            33.24
1-11-25            33.25
1-11-26            33.26
2-1-1              35.001
2-1-2              35.002
2-1-3              35.003
2-1-4              35.004
2-1-5              35.005
2-1-6              35.006
2-2-1              35.020
2-2-2              35.021
2-2-3              35.022
2-2-4              35.023
2-2-5              35.024
2-2-6              35.025
2-2-7              35.026
2-2-8              35.027
2-2-9              35.028
2-2-10             35.029;
                   35.999
2-2-11             35.030
2-2-12             35.031
2-2-13             35.032
2-2-14             35.999
2-2-15             35.033
2-2-16             35.034
2-2-17             35.035
2-3-1              35.095
2-3-2              35.096
2-4-1              35.050
2-4-2              35.051
2-4-3              35.052
2-4-4              35.053
2-4-5              35.054
2-5-1              35.065
2-5-2              35.066
2-5-3              35.067
2-5-4              35.068
2-5-5              35.069
2-5-6              35.070
2-5-7              35.071
2-5-8              35.072
2-5-9              35.073
2-5-10             35.074
2-5-11             35.075
2-5-12             35.999
2-5-13             35.076
2-5-14             35.077
2-5-15             35.078
2-5-16             35.079
2-5-17             35.080
2-5-18             35.081
2-5-19             35.082
2-5-20             35.083
3-1-1              110.01
3-1-2              110.02
3-1-3              110.03
3-1-4              110.04
3-1-5              110.05
3-1-6              110.06
3-1-7              110.07
3-1-8              110.08
3-1-9              110.09
3-1-10             110.10
3-1-11             110.11
3-1-12             110.12
3-1-13             110.13
3-1-14             110.14
3-1-15             110.99
3-2-1              110.25
3-2-2              110.26
3-2-3              110.27
3-2-4              110.28
3-2-5              110.29
3-2-6              110.30
3-2-7              110.31
3-2-8              110.32
3-2-9              110.33
3-2-10             110.34
3-2-11             110.99
3-3-1              112.01
3-3-2              112.02
3-3-3              112.03
3-3-4              112.04
4-1-1              93.001
4-1-2              93.002
4-1-3              93.003
4-1-4              93.999
4-2-1              93.020
4-2-2              93.021
4-2-3              93.022
4-2-4              93.023
4-2-5              93.024
4-2-6              93.025
4-2-7              93.026
4-2-8              93.027
4-2-9              93.999
4-2-10             93.028
4-3-1              93.065
4-3-2              93.066
4-3-3              93.067
4-3-4              93.068
4-3-5              93.069
4-3-6              93.999
4-4-1              93.040
4-4-2              93.041
4-4-3              93.042
4-4-4              93.043
4-4-5              93.044
4-4-6              93.045
4-4-7              93.046
4-4-8              93.047
4-4-9              93.048
4-4-10             93.049
4-4-11             93.050
4-5-1              93.004
4-5-2              93.004
4-5-3              93.999
4-6-1              93.005
4-6-2              93.005
4-6-3              93.005
4-6-4              93.999
4-7-1              93.080
4-7-2              93.081
4-7-3              93.082
4-7-4              93.083
4-7-5              93.084
4-7-6              93.085
4-7-7              93.086
4-7-8              93.087
4-7-9              93.999
4-7-10             93.999
5-1-1              32.25
5-1-2              32.26
5-1-3              32.27
5-1-4              32.28
5-2-1              32.01
5-2-2              32.02
5-2-3              32.03
5-2-4              32.04
5-2-5              32.05
5-2-6              32.06
5-2-7              32.07
5-2-8              32.08
5-2-9              32.09
5-2-10             32.10
5-2-11             32.11
5-2-12             32.12
5-2-13             32.13
5-3-1              34.01
5-3-2              34.02
5-3-3              34.03
5-3-4              34.04
5-3-5              34.05
5-4A-1             94.01
5-4A-2             94.02
5-4A-3             94.03
5-4A-4             94.04
5-4A-5             94.05
5-4A-6             94.06
5-4A-7             94.07
5-4A-8             94.08
5-4A-9             94.09
5-4A-10            94.10
5-4A-11            94.11
5-4A-12            94.99
5-4B-1             94.25
5-4B-2             94.26
5-4B-3             94.27
5-4B-4             94.28
5-4B-5             94.29
5-4B-6             94.30
5-4B-7             94.31
5-4B-8             94.32
5-4B-9             94.33
5-4C-1             94.12
5-4C-2             94.12
5-4C-3             94.12
5-4D-1             94.45
5-4D-2             94.46
5-4D-3             94.47
5-4D-4             94.48
5-4D-5             94.49
5-4D-6             94.50;
                   94.99
5-4D-7             94.51
5-4E-1             94.13
5-4E-2             94.13
5-4E-3             94.13
5-5-1              130.01
5-5-2              130.02
5-5-3              130.03
5-5-4              130.99
5-5A-1             131.01
5-5A-2             131.02
5-5A-3             131.03
5-5A-4             131.04
5-5A-5             131.05
5-5A-6             131.06
5-5A-7             131.07
5-5A-8             131.08
5-5A-9             131.09
5-5A-10            131.10
5-5A-11            131.11
5-5A-12            131.12
5-5A-13            131.13
5-5A-14            131.14
5-5B-1             132.01
5-5B-2             132.02
5-5B-3             132.03
5-5B-4             132.04
5-5B-5             132.05
5-5B-6             132.06
5-5B-7             132.07
5-5C-1             133.01
5-5C-2             133.02
5-5C-3             133.03
5-5C-4             133.04
5-5C-5             133.05
5-5C-6             133.06
5-5C-7             133.07
5-5C-8             133.08
5-5C-9             133.09;
                   133.99
5-5C-10            133.10
5-5C-11            133.11
5-5C-12            133.12
5-5C-13            133.13
5-5C-14            133.14
5-5C-15            133.15
5-5C-16            133.16
5-5C-18            133.18
5-5D-1             134.01
5-5E-1             135.01
5-5E-2             135.02
5-5E-3             135.03
5-5E-4             135.04
5-5E-5             135.05
5-5E-6             135.06
5-5E-7             135.07
5-5E-8             135.08
5-5E-9             135.09
5-5E-10            135.10
5-6-1              130.15
5-6-2              130.16
5-6-3              130.17
5-6-4              130.18
5-7-1              92.01
5-7-2              92.02
5-7-3              92.03
5-7-4              92.04
5-7-5              92.05
5-7-6              92.06;
                   92.99
5-7-7              92.07;
                   92.99
5-7-8              92.08
5-7-9              92.09
5-7-10             92.10
5-7-11             92.11;
                   92.99
5-8-1              150.20
5-8-2              150.21
5-8-3              150.22
6-1-1              70.30
6-1-2              70.31
6-1-3              70.99
6-1-4              70.32
6-1-5              70.33
6-1-6              70.34
6-1-7              70.35
6-1-8              70.36
6-1-9              70.37
6-1-10             70.38
6-1-11             70.39
6-2-1              70.01
6-2-2              70.02
6-2-3              70.03
6-2-4              70.04
6-2-5              70.05
6-2-6              70.06
6-2-7              70.07;
                   70.99
6-2-8              70.08
6-2-9              70.09
6-2-10             70.10
6-2-11             70.11
6-2-12             70.12
6-2-13             70.13
6-2-14             70.14,
                   70.99
6-2-15             70.15,
                   70.99
6-3A-1             72.01
6-3A-2             72.02
6-3A-3             72.03
6-3A-4             72.04
6-3A-5             72.05
6-3A-6             72.06
6-3A-7             72.07
6-3A-8             72.08
6-3A-9             72.09
6-3A-10            72.10
6-3A-11            72.11
6-3B-1             72.25
6-3B-2             72.26
6-3C-1             73.01
6-3C-2             73.02
6-3C-3             73.03
6-3C-4             73.04
6-3C-5             73.05
6-3C-6             73.06
6-3C-7             73.07
6-3C-8             73.08
6-3C-9             73.09;
                   73.99
6-3D-1             72.40
6-3D-2             72.41
6-3D-3             72.42
6-4-1              71.01
6-4-2              71.02
6-4-3              71.03
6-4-4              71.04
6-4-5              71.05
6-4-6              71.06
6-4-7              71.07
6-4-8              71.08
6-4-9              71.09
6-4-10             71.10
6-4-11             71.11
6-4-12             71.12
6-5-1              74.01
6-5-2              74.02
6-5-3              74.03
6-5-4              74.04
6-5-5              74.05
6-5-6              74.06
6-5-7              74.07
6-6-1              70.50
6-6-2              70.51
6-6-3              70.52
6-6-4              70.53
6-6-5              70.54
6-6-6              70.55
6-6-7              70.56
6-6-8              70.57
6-6-9              70.58
6-6-10             70.59
6-6-11             70.60
6-6-12             70.61
6-6-13             70.62
6-6-14             70.63
6-6-15             70.64
6-7-1              74.20
6-7-2              74.21
6-7-3              74.22
6-7-4              74.99
7-1-1              150.01
7-1-2              150.02
7-1-3              150.03
7-1-4              150.04
7-1-5              150.05
7-1-6              150.06
7-1-7              150.07
7-1-8              150.08
7-1-9              150.09
7-1-10             150.99
7-2-1              90.01
7-2-2              90.02
7-2-3              90.99
7-2-4              90.99
7-3-1              90.15
7-3-2              90.16
7-3-3              90.17
7-3-4              90.18
7-3-5              90.19
7-3-6              90.20
7-3-7              90.21
7-3-8              90.22
7-3-9              90.23
7-3-10             90.24
7-3-11             90.25
7-3-12             90.26
7-3-13             90.27
7-4-1              91.01
7-4-2              91.02
7-4-3              91.03
7-4-4              91.04
7-4-5              91.05
7-4-6              91.06
7-4-7              91.07
7-4-8              91.08
7-4-9              91.09
7-4-10             91.10
7-4-11             91.11
7-4-12             91.12
7-4-13             91.13
7-4-14             91.99
7-5-1              75.01
7-5-2              75.02
7-5-3              75.03
7-6                TSO Table I
8-1-1              50.01
8-1-2              50.02
8-1-4              50.04
8-1-5              50.05
8-1-6              50.06
8-1-7              50.99
8-2-1              50.20
8-2-2              50.21
8-2-3              50.22
8-2-4              50.23
8-2-5              50.24
8-3-1              51.01
8-3-2              51.02
8-3-3              51.03
8-3-4              51.99
9-1-1              152.015
9-1-2              152.016
9-1-3              152.017
9-1-4              152.018
9-1-5              152.019
9-1-6              152.020
9-1-7              152.999
9-1-8              152.021
9-2-1              152.035
9-2-2              152.036
9-2-3              152.037
9-2-4              152.038
9-2-5              152.999
9-2-6              152.039
9-3-1              152.050
9-3-2              152.051
9-3-3              152.052
9-3-4              152.053
9-3-5              152.054
9-3-6              152.055
9-3-7              152.056
9-3-8              152.999
9-3-9              152.057
9-4-1              152.070
9-4-2              152.071
9-4-3              152.072
9-4-4              152.073
9-4-5              152.074
9-4-6              152.075
9-4-7              152.999
9-5-1              152.001
9-5-2              152.999
9-5-3              152.001
9-6-1              152.002
9-6-2              152.999
9-6-3              152.002
9-7-1              153.15
9-7-2              153.16
9-7-3              153.17
9-7-4              153.18
9-7-5              153.19
9-7-6              153.20
9-7-7              153.21
9-7-8              153.22
9-7-9              153.99
9-7-10             153.23
9-8-1              151.01
9-8-2              151.02
9-8-3              151.03
9-8-4              151.04
9-8-5              151.05
9-8-6              151.06
9-8-7              151.07
9-8-8              151.08
9-8-9              151.09
9-8-10             151.10
9-8-11             151.11
9-8-12             151.12
9-8-13             151.13
9-8-14             151.14
9-8-15             151.99
9-8-16             151.15
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
-            2-1-2000    150.09
-            4-9-2024    TSO Table II
2025-2026-03 2-26-2026   10.99
2025-2026-04 2-26-2026   10.99
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
                          51.03;
2023-04       - -         51.04;
                          51.99
162A          2-1-1982    TSO Table I
175           8-28-1987   92.01 
                          92.03
                          35.065 
184           8-7-1990    35.083;
                          35.999
                          92.04 
175A          7-7-1992    92.10;
                          92.99
-             9-6-1994    50.20 
                          50.24
                          50.04;
161A          1-12-1995   50.05;
                          50.99
                          153.15 
187           11-7-1995   153.23;
                          153.99
190           2-6-1996    70.07 
                          70.09
                          93.065;
                          93.066;
-             1-7-1997    93.068;
                          93.069;
                          93.999
                          91.02;
                          91.05;
-             9-2-1997    91.06;
                          91.08;
                          91.09
-             12-2-1997   132.07
201           12-2-1997   72.11
                          90.15 
2002-5        5-7-2002    90.27;
                          90.99
2002-7        11-4-2002   30.02
13-202        5-3-2005    32.01
161A          11-1-2005   50.02
190           9-7-2006    70.07
2006-1        9-7-2006    112.01 
                          112.04
2006-2        11-8-2006   133.18
2007-1        10-2-2007   150.20 
                          150.22
2007-2        12-4-2007   32.28
2008-2        7-1-2008    10.99
161A          9-2-2008    50.01;
                          50.02
121           4-9-2009    32.01 
                          32.07
146           7-7-2009    132.03
117           9-1-2009    133.09;
                          133.99
162           1-5-2010    31.06
197           3-1-2010    72.11
                          94.01 
                          94.13;
                          94.25 
2002-6        4-5-2010    94.33;
                          94.45 
                          94.51;
                          94.99
80-2          5-3-2010    35.022
                          152.015 
170A          5-4-2010    152.021;
                          152.999
184           5-4-2010    35.065
                          93.080 
2011-1        9-6-2011    93.087;
                          93.999
                          93.020 
2012-1        6-5-2012    93.028;
                          93.999
2012-2        6-5-2012    93.004;
                          93.999
2012-3        6-5-2012    10.99
2013-2        7-2-2013    51.03
2013-5        10-1-2013   50.01
                          74.21;
2014-1        6-3-2014    74.22;
                          74.99
2014-2        8-12-2014   51.03
2015-1        1-6-2015    74.20;
                          74.22
                          111.01 
2019-03       3-5-2019    111.09;
                          111.99
                          111.03;
2019-03       5-7-2019    111.05;
                          111.07
2020-09       8-4-2020    153.01;
                          153.02
2021-01       10-5-2021   50.03
2022-03       2-8-2022    133.17;
                          133.99
2022-02       3- -2022    50.03
2022-05       6-14-2022   90.24
2024-6-11     6-13-2024   133.17
2025-03       2-11-2025   94.29
2025-6        5-23-2025   50.03
2025-11-04    11-4-2025   31.06
2025-11-05    11-4-2025   31.06
12-09-2025-01 12-9-2025   95.35
                          95.01 
12-09-2025-02 12-9-2025   95.05;
                          95.99
12-09-2025-03 12-9-2025   95.20 
                          95.22
2026-2-26     2-26-2026   110.14
                         
 
 
