TOWN CODE
of
WAYNE, OKLAHOMA
2004
Code current through:
Ord. 2026-02, passed 3-2-2026
and Res. 25-3, passed 1-6-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
***** PREFACE *****
            This code of the Town of Wayne, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 2026-02, passed in March 2, 2026; and
resolution 25-3, passed January 6, 2025. Ordinances of the Town adopted after
said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that they
are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Town office in order to
ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been amended,
superseded or repealed.
                        American Legal Publishing
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
***** CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL TOWN CODE *****
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title; Authority
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Conflicting Provisions
1-1-4: Amendments
1-1-5: Ordinances In Effect In Outlying Territory Of Town
1-1-6: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE; AUTHORITY:
   Upon the adoption by the board of trustees, this town code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official town code of Wayne.
This town code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the WAYNE TOWN CODE
and is hereby published by authority of the board of trustees and 11 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 14-108 and 14-109 and shall be supplemented to incorporate
the most recent legislation of the town as provided in section
1-1-4  of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this town code by title in any legal documents. (1994 Code § 1-103; amd. 2004
Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
   The town code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
the state as the ordinances of the town of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2004 Code)
1-1-3: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
   A.   If the provisions of different chapters, articles, sections or
subsections of this code conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
of each chapter, article, section or subsection shall prevail as to all matters
and questions growing out of the subject matter of that chapter, article,
section or subsection.
   B.   If clearly conflicting provisions are found in different sections of
the same chapter, the provisions of the section last enacted shall prevail,
unless the construction is inconsistent with the meaning of that section. (1994
Code § 1-104)
1-1-4: AMENDMENTS:
   Any ordinance amending the town code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this town code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this town code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the town code. (2004 Code)
1-1-5: ORDINANCES IN EFFECT IN OUTLYING TERRITORY OF TOWN:
   All ordinances of the town now in effect within the town are hereby extended
to all real property belonging to, or under the control of, the town outside
the corporate limits thereof, and is in full effect therein, insofar as they
are applicable. All ordinances of the town which shall go into effect in the
future shall also apply to, and be in full effect within, the boundaries of all
outlying real property, insofar as they may be applicable. Any words in any
ordinance indicating that the effect of an ordinance provision is limited to
the corporate limits of the town shall be deemed to mean and include also the
outlying real property belonging to, or under the control of, the town, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1994 Code § 1-113)
1-1-6: CODE ALTERATIONS:
   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or
deface in any way any section or any page of this town code in such a manner
that the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code,
while in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be
and remain the property of the town and shall be returned to the office of the
town clerk-treasurer when directed so to do by order of the town board of
trustees. (2004 Code)
***** CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE *****
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Effect Of Repeal; Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   All general ordinances of the town passed prior to the adoption of this town
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this town code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
town; and all special ordinances. (2004 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
   No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public
ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities
shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this town code or by virtue of
section
1-2-1 of this chapter, except as this town code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this town code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2004 Code)
1-2-3: EFFECT OF REPEAL; COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Offenses: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this town code. (2004 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
   If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase of this town code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted by
reference or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein, is for any reason
held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted
by reference or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein. The board of
trustees hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2004 Code)
***** CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS *****
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this town code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this town code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
town code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto. (2004 Code)
   B.   Words and phrases are construed according to the common and approved
usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and others that have
acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law are construed and
understood according to such meaning.
   C.   Definitions given within a chapter or article apply only to words or
phrases used in such chapter or article unless otherwise provided. (1994 Code §
1-102)
   D.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the town has been
changed in the content of this town code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the town's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2004 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
   Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
   AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
   AND/OR: Means "or", and "or" may be read "and" if the sense requires it.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES: The governing body of the town of Wayne Oklahoma; the
town board of trustees.
   BOND: An obligation in writing, binding the signatory to pay a sum certain
upon the happening or failure of an event.
   BUILDING: Any structure intended to have walls and a roof.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR: The person appointed by the town and designated as the
town's building inspector.
   BUSINESS: Any profession, trade, occupation and any other commercial
enterprise conducted for monetary reward.
   CODE: The town code of the town of Wayne, Oklahoma.
   COUNTY: McClain County, Oklahoma.
   DESIGNEE: Following an official of the town, means the authorized agent,
employee or representative of such official.
   EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a town employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
town of Wayne".
   GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to firms, partnerships and
corporations as well.
   HEALTH OFFICER: Administrator of the cooperative department of the county
and the town.
   KEEPER: One in possession of or who has the care, custody or superintendence
of a thing, place or business, whether or not the owner or proprietor, and
includes any person, firm, association, corporation, club and copartnership,
whether acting by themselves or by a servant, agent or employee.
   LAW: Applicable federal law and court decisions, court decisions and
provisions of the constitution and statutes of the state and ordinances of the
town and, when appropriate, any and all rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MAY: Is permissive and discretionary.
   MAYOR: The mayor of the town.
   MONTH: A calendar month.
   OS: Oklahoma Statutes, as amended.
   OATH: Any form of attestation by which a person signifies that he is bound
in conscience to perform an act or to speak faithfully and truthfully, and
includes an affirmation or declaration in cases where, by law, an affirmation
may be substituted for an oath.
   OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE: The unlawful act of doing, or failing to do, some particular act or
thing construed therein to be detrimental to the general welfare, morals,
peace, health or safety of the inhabitants of the town.
   OFFICERS AND OTHER OFFICIALS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a
town officer, agency or department by title only, this shall be construed as
though followed by the words "of the town of Wayne".
   OPERATE: Carry on, keep, conduct, maintain, manage, direct or superintend.
   OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   ORDINANCES: The ordinances of the town and all amendments and supplements
thereto.
   OWNER: One who has complete dominion over particular property and who is the
one in whom legal or equitable title rests; when applied to a building or land,
"owner" means any part owner, joint owner, owner of a community or partnership
interest, life tenant, tenant in common, or joint tenant, of the whole or part
of such building or land.
   PERSON: Any individual, natural person, joint stock company, partnership,
voluntary association, club, firm, company, corporation, business trust,
organization, or any other bodies corporate or politic or group acting as a
unit, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, partner, member, director,
officer or employee of any of them including an executor, clerk, trustee,
receiver, or other representative appointed according to law, unless a contrary
intention plainly appears.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Any money, goods, moveable chattels, things in action,
evidence of debt, all objects and rights which are capable of ownership, and
every other species of property except real property.
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPRIETOR: An owner of the property or premises, including any person,
firm, association, corporation, club, partnership or other group acting as a
unit, whether acting by themselves or by a servant, agent or employee.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Means and includes any public street, road or highway, alley,
lane, sidewalk, crosswalk, or other public way, or any public resort, place of
amusement, stadium, athletic field, park, playground, public building or
grounds appurtenant thereto, school building or school grounds, public parking
lot or any vacant lot, the elevator, lobby, halls, corridors and areas open to
the public of any store, office, or apartment building, or any other place
commonly open to the public.
   REAL PROPERTY: Land, together with all things attached to the land so as to
become a part thereof.
   RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer.
   SHALL: Is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property along the margin of a street or other highway, designed, constructed
and intended for the use of pedestrians to the exclusion of vehicles.
   SIGNATURE AND SUBSCRIPTION: The name of a person, mark or symbol appended by
him, in writing, with intent to authenticate the instrument as one made or put
into effect by him.
   STATE: The state of Oklahoma.
   STATUTES: The Oklahoma Statutes as they are now or as they may be amended.
   STREET: All streets, highways, avenues, boulevards, parkways, roads, lanes,
viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto, docks built on the public street,
alleys, courts, places, squares, curbs, sidewalks, recreation and park lands
used for vehicular traffic, or other public ways or thoroughfares in the town,
over which it has jurisdiction, which have been or may hereafter be dedicated
and open to public use, or such other public property so designated in any law
of the state.
   TENANT: Any person occupying the premises, building or land of another in
subordination to such other person's title and with his express or implied
consent, whether he occupies the whole or a part of those premises, building or
land, whether alone or with others.
   TIME: The hour of the day according to the official time of the day.
   TIME OF PERFORMANCE: The time within which an act is to be done as provided
in any section of this code or any order issued pursuant to any section of this
code, when expressed in days, and is computed by excluding the first and
including the last day. If the last day is a Sunday or legal holiday, that day
shall not be counted in the computation. When the time is expressed in hours,
the whole of Sunday or a legal holiday from midnight to midnight is excluded.
   TOWN: The town of Wayne, county of McClain, state of Oklahoma.
   TOWN LIMITS: Within the town, and includes not only the corporate limits of
the town but also any property which it owns or which is under its jurisdiction
1 .
   WATERCOURSE: Any drain, ditch and stream, flowing in a definite direction or
course, in a bed with banks.
   WEEK: Seven (7) days.
   WHOLESALER, WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
   WRITING AND WRITTEN: Any representation of words, letters or figures,
whether by printing or otherwise, capable of comprehension by ordinary visual
means.
   YEAR: A calendar year.
(1994 Code §§ 1-102, 10-103; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 See section
  1-1-5 of this title.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
   The catchlines of the several sections of the town code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2004 Code)
***** CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY *****
SECTION:
1-4-1: Violations; General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-4: Relief By Civil Action
1-4-1: VIOLATIONS; GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Violation An Offense: The doing of any of the acts or things
prohibited, or failing to do any of the acts or things commanded to be done, as
more fully specified and set forth by any provision of this code or any title,
chapter or article hereof, or future ordinances of the town, is hereby declared
to be an offense against the good order, public peace, morals, health, proper
government and welfare of the town and is unlawful. (1994 Code § 10-104)
   B.   Penalties Established 1 :
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, whenever in this code,
in any ordinance of the town, or in any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant
to this code, any act or failure to do a required act is prohibited or is made
or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, where no specific
penalty is provided herein or therefor, the violation of any such provision of
this code or any ordinance or rule shall be punished by a fine not exceeding
one hundred dollars ($100.00), except where another specific penalty is
established in this code. Each day any person is in violation of any provision
of this code, and each day any such violation occurs or continues to exist,
shall be a separate offense. (1994 Code §§ 1-108, 1-109; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   If the judge of the municipal court of the town is a licensed
attorney and the trial is to the court, the court may impose a fine not to
exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 124, 5-6-1996)
   C.   Effect Of License Suspension Or Revocation: The suspension or
revocation of any license, certificate or other privilege conferred by the town
shall not be regarded as a penalty for the purposes of this code but shall be
in addition thereto. (1994 Code § 1-108)
   D.   Penalty Not To Excuse Offense: The imposition of one penalty for an
offense shall not excuse it or permit it to continue, nor prevent the
imposition of further penalty, should the offense be continued or permitted to
continue. (1994 Code § 10-105)
   E.   Aiding An Offense:
      1.   Whenever in this code any act or omission is made unlawful or
prohibited, it shall include causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting or
concealing the fact of such act or omission. (1994 Code § 1-110)
      2.   When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels or aids another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense, or
misdemeanor, and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender. (1994
Code § 10-102)
 
Notes
1 See section
  1-8-20 of this title for court costs, assessments, etc.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this town code the same as though it were a part
of each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections 1 : In all cases where the
same offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections
of this town code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed,
but not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the
same offense.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this town code
and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach,
the provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2004 Code)
   D.   Territorial Applicability: Except as provided otherwise, this code
refers only to the commission or omission of acts within the territorial limits
of the town and to that territory outside the town over which the town has
jurisdiction, ownership or control by virtue of any constitutional or statutory
provision, or any law 2 . (1994 Code § 1-112)
 
Notes
1 See also subsection
  1-8-20C of this title.
2 See section
  1-1-5 of this title.
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
   No provision of this town code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the board of trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such
officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty. (2004 Code)
1-4-4: RELIEF BY CIVIL ACTION:
   No penalty imposed by or pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this chapter or any other section of this code or other ordinance of
the town shall interfere with the right of the town to apply to the proper
courts of the state for a writ of mandamus, an injunction or other appropriate
relief in the case of violations of this code or other ordinances. (1994 Code §
1-111)
***** CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS *****
SECTION:
1-5-1: Official Town Map
1-5-2: Elections
1-5-1: OFFICIAL TOWN MAP:
   The map of the town showing its territorial limits, as maintained in the
office of the town clerk-treasurer, is hereby designated as the official map of
the town, and the corporate limits as shown thereon, and as amended, are
declared to be the true and correct corporate limits of the town, including all
annexations made to the town. (1994 Code § 1-201; amd. 2004 Code)
1-5-2: ELECTIONS:
   Elections of officers of the town are governed by the Oklahoma town meeting
act, 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 16-301 et seq. (1994 Code § 2-101)
***** CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES *****
SECTION:
1-6-1: Board Of Trustees
1-6-2: Mayor
1-6-3: Meetings
1-6-4: Salary
1-6-1: BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
   The town is governed under the board of trustees form of government. The
board of trustees shall consist of five (5) trustees, elected at large and not
by ward for four (4) year staggered terms. All powers of the town shall be
exercised in the manner prescribed by this code, by state statute and in such
manner prescribed by ordinances adopted by the town board of trustees. (1994
Code § 2-101)
1-6-2: MAYOR:
   The mayor and acting mayor shall have all the powers and duties prescribed
by state law, and as may be prescribed by ordinance. (1994 Code § 2-103)
1-6-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular And Adjourned Meetings: Regular meetings of the board of
trustees shall be held at six o’clock (6:00) P.M. on the first Monday of each
month at the town hall, unless the mayor or board of trustees designates
another place. If such a Monday falls on a town holiday, the regular meeting
shall be held at that time on the next day which is not a holiday. Any
adjourned meeting may be held at any other place in the town designated by the
board of trustees. (1994 Code § 2-102; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Rules: The board of trustees may from time to time adopt rules to
govern the proceedings of the board of trustees. (1994 Code § 2-102; amd. Ord.
2024-03, 11-5-2024)
1-6-4: SALARY:
   The pay period for the Board of Trustees of the Town of Wayne shall be
monthly. The trustees whose term begins on or after April 6, 2021, shall be
paid once per month at the beginning of each month the following salary during
the performance of his/her duties:
 
Mayor:   $100.00 per month
Trustee: $100.00 per month
 
(Ord. 2021-001, 4-5-2021, eff. 5-1-2021)
***** CHAPTER 7
TOWN OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL *****
SECTION:
1-7-1: Town Clerk-Treasurer
1-7-2: Town Attorney
1-7-3: Other Administrative Departments, Officers And Agencies
1-7-4: Bonds
1-7-5:    Records And Property To Successor
1-7-6: Social Security
1-7-7: Employee Retirement System
1-7-1: TOWN CLERK-TREASURER:
   A.   Office Created; Powers And Duties: The town clerk-treasurer is an
officer of the town. The clerk-treasurer shall:
      1.   Keep the journal of proceedings of the board of trustees;
      2.   Enroll all ordinances and resolutions passed by the board of
trustees in a book or set of books kept for that purpose;
      3.   Have custody of documents, records, and archives as may be provided
for by law or by ordinance, and have custody of the town seal;
      4.   Attest and affix the seal of the town to documents as required by
law or ordinance;
      5.   Maintain accounts and books to show where and from what source all
monies paid to the town have been derived and to whom and when any monies have
been paid;
      6.   Deposit, daily, funds received for the town in depositories as the
board of trustees may designate; and
      7.   Have such other powers, duties and functions related to the
statutory duties of the clerk-treasurer as may be prescribed by law or
ordinance.
(1994 Code §§ 2-104, 2-105; amd. Ord. 128, 2-3-1997)
   B.   Additional Administrative Duties; Compensation:
      1.   The person who serves as town clerk-treasurer may also perform
additional administrative duties not specified by state law as an employee of
the town. Said additional duties shall be performed by the person serving as
the town clerk-treasurer or as otherwise provided by motion or other action of
the board of trustees. The person performing additional administrative duties
shall serve at the pleasure of the board and shall perform such duties as may
be prescribed by the board.
      2.   The pay period for performing the additional administrative duties
shall be the same as for other municipal employees, and the payment each month
shall be in an amount to be determined by the board of trustees, and in
accordance with any personnel policy or other policy of the town. The salary
for performing the additional administrative duties shall not be subject to
constitutional restrictions.
(Ord. 120, 4-20-1995; amd. 2004 Code)
1-7-2: TOWN ATTORNEY:
   The town attorney is an officer of the town, appointed by the mayor with the
confirmation of the board of trustees. The town attorney shall have such duties
as are prescribed by the town board. (1994 Code § 2-106)
1-7-3: OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS, OFFICERS AND AGENCIES:
   There shall be such other administrative departments, agencies and officers
as the board of trustees may establish. (1994 Code § 2-107)
1-7-4: BONDS:
   The town clerk-treasurer and such officers and employees as are designated
by the town board of trustees shall, before entering upon the discharge of
their duties, execute and file with the town clerk-treasurer surety bonds
issued by a surety company authorized to operate in the state, conditioned upon
the faithful performance of their duties, in such sums as are approved by the
town board. The town shall pay the premium on such bonds. (1994 Code § 2-108)
1-7-5: RECORDS AND PROPERTY TO SUCCESSOR:
   All books, vouchers, monies or other property belonging to the town and in
the charge or possession of any officer of the town shall be delivered to the
officer's successor when said successor has qualified.
(1994 Code § 2-110; amd. 2004 Code)
1-7-6: SOCIAL SECURITY:
   A.   Declaration Of Policy: It is hereby declared to be the policy of the
town to extend, at the earliest date, to the employees and officials thereof,
not excluded by law or this section, and whether employed in connection with a
governmental or proprietary function, the benefits of the system of federal old
age and survivors insurance as authorized by the federal social security act,
and amendments thereto. In pursuance of this policy, the town shall take such
action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(1994 Code § 2-201)
   B.   Agreement With State: The mayor is hereby authorized and directed to
execute all necessary agreements and amendments thereto with the public welfare
commission as agent or agency, to secure coverage of employees and officials as
provided in subsection A of this section. (1994 Code § 2-201; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Withholdings: Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and
officials for the purpose provided in subsection A of this section are hereby
authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by
applicable state or federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the
state or federal agency designated by the laws or regulations.
   D.   Contributions: There shall be appropriated from available funds such
amounts at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations for employer's contributions, which shall be paid over to the state
or federal agency designated by said laws or regulations.
   E.   Records And Reports: The town shall keep such records and make such
reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
   F.   Exclusions:
      1.   There is hereby excluded from this section any authority to make any
agreement with respect to any position or any employee or official now covered
or authorized to be covered by any other ordinance creating any retirement
system for any employee or official of the town.
      2.   There is hereby excluded from this section any authority to make an
agreement with respect to any position or any employee or official,
compensation for which is on a fee basis, or any position or any employee or
official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations. (1994 Code § 2-201)
1-7-7: EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
   A.   That pursuant to the authority conferred by the laws of the State of
Oklahoma, and for the purpose of encouraging continuity and meritorious service
on the part of City employees and thereby promote public efficiency, there is
hereby authorized created, established, and approved and adopted, effective as
of January 1, 2025, the funded Plan designated “Employee Retirement System of
the Town of Wayne and Wayne Public Works Authority, Oklahoma, Defined Benefit
Plan,” (hereinafter called System), an executed counterpart of which is marked
Exhibit “A” (Joinder Agreement) and Exhibit “B” (Defined Benefit Master Plan)
and attached hereto as part hereof.
   B.   Administration. For the purpose of administration the System there is
hereby established a Committee, which shall be the members of the Board of
Trustees of Town of Wayne and Wayne Public Works Authority, Oklahoma, as now
existing or as from time to time duly elected or appointed and constituted. The
powers and duties of the Committee shall be as set forth in the System
instrument attached hereto as Exhibit “B”.
   C.   Fund. A fund is hereby provided for the exclusive use and benefit of
the persons entitled to benefits under the System. All contributions to such
fund shall be paid over to and received in trust for such purpose by the City.
Such Fund shall be pooled for purposes of management and investment with
similar funds of other incorporated cities, towns, and municipal trusts in the
State of Oklahoma as a part of the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund in
accordance with the trust agreement of the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund,
a public trust. The City shall hold such contributions in the form received,
and from time to time pay over and transfer the same to the Oklahoma Municipal
Retirement Fund, as duly authorized and directed by the Board of Trustees. The
Fund shall be nonfiscal and shall not be considered in computing any levy when
the annual estimate is made to the County Excise Board.
   D.   Appropriations. The Town of Wayne and Wayne Public Works Authority,
Oklahoma, is hereby authorized to incur the necessary expenses for the
establishment, operation, and administration of the System, and to appropriate
and pay the same. In addition, the Town of Wayne and Wayne Public Works
Authority, Oklahoma, is hereby authorized to appropriate annually such amounts
as are required in addition to employee contributions to maintain the System
and the Fund in accordance with the provisions of the Defined Benefit Plan. Any
appropriation so made to maintain the System and Fund shall be for deferred
wages or salaries, and for the payment of necessary expenses of operation and
administration to be transferred to the trustees of the Oklahoma Municipal
Retirement Fund for such purposes and shall be paid into the Fund when
available, to be duly transferred to the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund.
   E.   Special Income Tax Treatment For Contributions Under IRC 414. The Plan
contains provisions which are intended to constitute a pick-up program by the
Employer which satisfies the requirements of section 414(h)(2) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 (the “Code”); and the Plan, be, and it is, approved and
adopted as of the date therein stated; and Mandatory Contributions (as defined
in the Plan) are designated “picked-up” by the employer so as to not be
included in Plan Participants' gross income for Federal income tax purposes as
provided in Section 414(h)(2) of the Code. All Mandatory Contributions are to
be paid by the employer in lieu of contributions by the Plan Participant. No
Participant in the Plan shall have the option of choosing to receive the
amounts of Mandatory Contributions directly in lieu of having such amounts paid
by the employer to the Trustees of the Plan.
   F.   Execution. The Mayor and City Clerk be and they are each hereby
authorized and directed to execute (in counterparts, each of which shall
constitute an original) the System instrument, and to do all other acts and
things necessary, advisable, and proper to put said System and related trust
into full force and effect, and to make such changes therein as may be
necessary to qualify the same under Sections 401(a) and 501(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code of the United States. The counterpart attached hereto as Exhibit
“A” and Exhibit “B”, which has been duly executed as aforesaid simultaneously
with the passage of this Ordinance and made a part hereof, is hereby ratified
and confirmed in all respects. This Committee is hereby authorized and directed
to proceed immediately on behalf of the Town of Wayne and Wayne Public Works
Authority, Oklahoma, to pool and combine the Fund into the Oklahoma Municipal
Retirement Fund as a part thereof, with similar funds of such other cities and
towns, for purposes of pooled management and investment. (Ord. 2025-01, 12-19-
2024)
***** CHAPTER 8
MUNICIPAL COURT *****
SECTION:
1-8-1: Purpose And Effect
1-8-2: Definitions
1-8-3: Jurisdiction
1-8-4: Municipal Judge
1-8-5: Change Of Venue Not Allowed
1-8-6: Chief Of Police
1-8-7: Clerk Of The Court
1-8-8: Town Attorney
1-8-9: Rules Of The Court
1-8-10: Traffic Violations
1-8-11: Schedule Of Fines
1-8-12: Prosecutions Procedure
1-8-13: Citations
1-8-14: Summons
1-8-15: Failure To Appear
1-8-16: Warrant Of Arrest
1-8-17: Bail Or Bond
1-8-18: Arraignment
1-8-19: Trials; Judgments
1-8-20: Court Costs; Penalties
1-8-1: PURPOSE AND EFFECT:
   This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the municipal
court of the town, as put into operation by resolution duly passed and filed in
accordance with law, as authorized by state statutes. To the extent of conflict
between any provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any other
ordinance of the town, the provisions of this chapter shall control. (1994 Code
§ 6-102; amd. 2004 Code)
1-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
   As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
   CHIEF OF POLICE: The peace officer in charge of the police force of the
town.
   CLERK: The court clerk as appointed by the town, including any deputy or
member of the office staff of the clerk while performing duties of the clerk's
office.
   COURT: The municipal court of the town.
   JUDGE: The judge of the municipal court, including any acting judge or
alternate judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of the state and this
chapter.
   THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT: The McClain County district court of the twenty
first judicial district of the state of Oklahoma. (1994 Code § 6-101; amd. 2004
Code)
1-8-3: JURISDICTION:
   The court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of the town is charged,
including any such prosecutions transferred to the court in accordance with
applicable law. (1994 Code § 6-103)
1-8-4: MUNICIPAL JUDGE:
   A.   Qualifications And Restrictions: There shall be one judge of the court.
A judge need not be a licensed attorney at law, but if not, he must be a
resident of the town, of the age of thirty (30) years, and possessed of good,
moral character. A judge who is a licensed attorney may engage in the practice
of law in other courts, but he shall not accept employment inconsistent with
his duties as judge, or arising out of facts which give rise to or are
connected with cases within the jurisdiction of the court, pending therein or
which might become subject of proceedings therein. (1994 Code § 6-201; amd.
2004 Code)
   B.   Appointment: Judges shall be appointed by the mayor with the consent of
the town board of trustees. A proposed appointment shall be submitted in
writing to the town board of trustees at the next to the last regularly
scheduled meeting prior to the day upon which the appointment is to take
effect, and shall be acted upon at the next regularly scheduled meeting. The
town board of trustees may decide upon the proposed appointment by a majority
vote of all the members of the board of trustees. Failure of decision upon a
proposed appointment shall not prevent action thereon at a later regularly
scheduled meeting of the board of trustees, unless the mayor, in writing,
withdraws the proposed appointment. (1994 Code § 6-203)
   C.   Term Of Judge: The official term of the judge shall be two (2) years,
expiring on June 1 in each odd numbered year. (1994 Code § 6-202)
   D.   Alternate Judge: There may be appointed for each judge of the court an
alternate judge possessed of the same qualifications as the judge. His
appointment shall be for the same term and made in the same manner as the
judge. He shall sit as judge of the court in any case if the judge is absent
from court, unable to act as judge, or disqualified from acting as judge in the
case. (1994 Code § 6-203)
   E.   Acting Judge: If at any time there is no judge duly appointed and
qualified available to sit as judge, a person possessing the qualifications
required by this chapter for the judge shall be appointed as acting judge. The
acting judge shall preside as acting judge over the court in the disposition of
pending matters until such time as a judge or alternate judge shall be
available. (1994 Code §
   F.   Compensation: A judge shall receive such salary as may be established
and shall be paid as established by the town. (1994 Code § 6-205)
   G.   Removal:
      1.   Removal For Cause: Judges shall be subject to removal from office by
the board of trustees for the causes prescribed by the constitution and laws of
the state for the removal of public officers. (1994 Code § 6-206)
      2.   Filing Of Petition: Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by
the filing of a verified written petition, setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may be signed and
filed by the mayor or fifty (50) or more qualified electors of the town. In the
latter event, verification may be executed by one or more of the petitioners.
(1994 Code § 6-206; amd. 2004 Code)
      3.   Hearing; Notice: The board of trustees shall set a date for hearing
the matter and shall cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the
petition, to be served personally upon the judge at least ten (10) days before
the hearing. At the hearing, the judge shall be entitled to representation by
counsel, to present testimony and cross examine the witnesses against him, and
to have all evidence against him presented in open hearing.
      4.   Procedures: So far as can be made applicable, the provisions of the
Oklahoma administrative procedure act governing individual proceedings (75
Oklahoma Statutes sections 309 to 317 and any amendments or additions thereto
in effect at the time of the hearing) shall govern removal proceedings
hereunder. Judgment of removal shall be entered only upon individual votes, by
a majority of all members of the board of trustees, in favor of such removal.
(1994 Code § 6-206)
   H.   Vacancy In Office:
      1.   Cause Of Vacancy: A vacancy in the office of judge shall occur if
the incumbent:
         a.   Dies;
         b.   Resigns;
         c.   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
         d.   Is removed, and the removal proceeding has been affirmed finally
in judicial proceedings or is no longer subject to judicial review.
      2.   Filling Vacancy: Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of
judge, the mayor shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term,
under the same procedure as an original appointment is made. (1994 Code § 6-
207)
1-8-5: CHANGE OF VENUE NOT ALLOWED:
   In prosecutions before the court, no change of venue shall be allowed. The
judge before whom the case is pending may certify his disqualification or he
may be disqualified from sitting under the terms, conditions and procedure
provided by law for courts of record. If a judge is disqualified, the matter
shall be heard by an acting judge, appointed as provided in this chapter. (1994
Code § 6-104)
1-8-6: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   All writs or processes of the court shall be directed, in his official
title, to the chief of police, who shall be the principal officer of the court.
(1994 Code § 6-105)
1-8-7: CLERK OF THE COURT:
   A.   Designation; Duties: The town clerk-treasurer or a deputy designated by
him shall be the clerk of the court. The clerk shall:
      1.   Assist the judge in recording the proceedings of the court and in
preparing writs, processes and other papers;
      2.   Administer oaths required in proceedings before the court;
      3.   Enter all pleadings, processes and proceedings in the dockets of the
court;
      4.   Perform such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of
the court as the judge shall direct; and (1994 Code § 6-106)
      5.   Receive and give receipt for forfeitures, fees, deposits and sums of
money payable to the court and as may be established by the court or the town
board of trustees. All monies paid to the clerk-treasurer shall be placed in
the general fund of the town, or in such other fund as the board of trustees
may direct. (1994 Code § 6-106; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Bond: The clerk of the court shall give bond in such sum as set by the
board of trustees, in the form provided by state law. When executed, the bond
shall be submitted to the board of trustees for approval. When approved, it
shall be filed with the clerk-treasurer and retained in the municipal archives.
(1994 Code § 6-108)
1-8-8: TOWN ATTORNEY:
   The town attorney or his duly designated assistant may be the prosecuting
officer of the court. He may prosecute, in his discretion, all alleged
violations of the ordinances of the town. He shall be authorized, in his
discretion, to prosecute and resist appeals, proceedings in error and review
from the municipal court to any other courts of the state, and to represent the
town in all proceedings arising out of matters in the municipal court. (1994
Code § 6-107)
1-8-9: RULES OF THE COURT:
   The judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the laws of the state and
with the ordinances of the town, for the proper conduct of the business of the
court. (1994 Code § 6-109)
1-8-10: TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Traffic Violations Bureau:
      1.   Bureau Created: A traffic violations bureau is established as a
division of the office of the clerk of the court, to be administered by the
clerk or by subordinates designated for that purpose.
      2.   Fines: Persons who are cited for violation of one of the traffic
ordinances of the town, other than a driver's license offense, or an offense
punishable by more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), may elect to pay a fine
in the violations bureau according to a schedule of fines prescribed from time
to time by the town board of trustees. The payment shall constitute a final
determination of the cause against the defendant.
      3.   Court Costs: Court costs, as provided in subsection
1-8-20A of this chapter, shall be collected in each case before the traffic
violations bureau, irrespective of whether the sentence is deferred.
      4.   Rules: The court may adopt rules to carry into effect this
subsection. If a defendant who has elected to pay a fine under this subsection
fails so to do, prosecution shall proceed under the provisions of this chapter.
(1994 Code § 6-110)
   B.   Traffic Bail Bond Act:
      1.   In addition to other provisions of law for posting bail, any person,
whether a resident of this state or a nonresident, who is arrested by a law
enforcement officer solely for a misdemeanor violation of a state traffic law
or municipal traffic ordinance shall be released by the arresting officer upon
personal recognizance if:
         a.   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle by this state, another state jurisdiction within the United
States which is a party to the nonresident violator compact 1 , or any party
jurisdiction of the nonresident violator compact;
         b.   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the
arrested person; (1994 Code § 6-114)
         c.   The arrested person signs a written promise to appear as provided
for on the citation, unless the person is unconscious or injured and requires
immediate medical treatment as determined by the treating physician; and
         d.   The violation does not constitute:
            (1)   A felony;
            (2)   Negligent homicide;
            (3)   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor
vehicle while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances, unless the person is unconscious or injured and requires immediate
medical treatment as determined by the treating physician;
            (4)   Eluding or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer;
            (5)   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver's license, or while the driving privilege and driver's license is under
suspension, revocation, denial or cancellation;
            (6)   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant;
            (7)   A traffic violation coupled with any offense stated in
subsections B1d(1) through B1d(6) of this section;
            (8)   An overweight violation, or the violation of a special permit
exceeding the authorized permit weight; or
            (9)   A violation relating to the transportation of hazardous
materials.
      2.   If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal
recognizance, as provided for in subsection B1 of this section, then the
arresting officer shall:
         a.   Designate the traffic charge;
         b.   Record information from the arrested person's driver's license on
the citation form, including the name, address, date of birth, personal
description, type of driver's license, driver's license number, issuing state,
and expiration date;
         c.   Record the motor vehicle make, model and tag information;
         d.   Record the arraignment date and time on the citation; and
         e.   Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to appear as
provided for in the citation.
      3.   The arresting officer shall then release the person upon personal
recognizance based upon the signed promise to appear. The citation shall
contain a written notice to the arrested person that release upon personal
recognizance based upon a signed written promise to appear for arraignment is
conditional, and that failure to timely appear for arraignment shall result in
the suspension of the arrested person's driving privilege and driver's license
in this state, or in the nonresident's home state pursuant to the nonresident
violator compact.
      4.   Procedures for arraignment, continuances and scheduling, timely
appearances, pleas of guilty or nolo contendere, posting bail, payment of fines
and costs, issuance of arrest warrants, and requests for suspension of driving
privilege and driver's license shall be as required in state law, 22 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 1115.1 through 1115.5.
      5.   A defendant released upon personal recognizance may elect to enter a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the violation charged at any time before
he is required to appear for arraignment by indicating such plea on the copy of
the citation furnished to him or on a legible copy thereof, together with the
date of the plea and his signature. The defendant shall be responsible for
assuring full payment of the fine and costs to the court clerk. The defendant
shall not use currency for payment by mail. If the defendant has entered a plea
of guilty or nolo contendere as provided for in this subsection, such plea
shall be accepted by the court, and the amount of the fine and costs shall be
as prescribed by ordinance for the violation charged or as prescribed by the
court.
      6.   If, pursuant to the provisions of subsection B5 of this section, the
defendant does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
and fails to timely appear for arraignment, the court may issue a warrant for
the arrest of the defendant, and the municipal or district court clerk, within
one hundred twenty (120) calendar days from the date the citation was issued by
the arresting officer, shall notify the state department of public safety that:
         a.   The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after signing a written promise to appear for arraignment
as provided for in the citation;
         b.   The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without good
cause shown;
         c.   The defendant has not posted bail, paid a fine, or made any other
arrangement with the court to satisfy the citation; and
         d.   The citation has not been satisfied as provided by law.
      7.   The court clerk shall request the state department of public safety
to either suspend the defendant's driving privilege and driver's license to
operate a motor vehicle in this state, or notify the defendant's home state and
request suspension of the defendant's driving privilege and driver's license in
accordance with the provisions of the nonresident violator compact. Such notice
and request shall be on a form approved or furnished by the state department of
public safety. The court clerk shall not process the notification and request
provided for in this subsection if, with respect to such charges:
         a.   The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was
jailed, or otherwise settled the case;
         b.   The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance upon a
signed written promise to appear as provided for in this subsection or, if
released, was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for
arraignment;
         c.   The violation relates to parking or standing, an overweight
violation, an overweight permit, or the transportation of hazardous materials;
or
         d.   A period of one hundred twenty (120) calendar days or more has
elapsed from the date the citation was issued by the arresting officer.
      8.   The court clerk shall maintain a record of each request for driving
privilege and driver's license suspension submitted to the state department of
public safety pursuant to the provisions of this subsection. When the court or
court clerk receives appropriate bail or payment of the fine and costs, settles
the citation, makes other arrangements with the defendant, or otherwise closes
the case, the court clerk shall furnish proof thereof to such defendant if the
defendant personally appears, or shall mail such proof by first class mail,
postage prepaid, to the defendant at the address noted on the citation or at
such other address as is furnished by the defendant. Additionally, the court or
court clerk shall notify the home jurisdiction of the defendant as listed on
the citation if such jurisdiction is a member of the nonresident violator
compact, and shall, in all other cases, notify the state department of public
safety of the resolution of the case. The form of proof and the procedures for
notification shall be approved by the state department of public safety.
Provided however, the court or court clerk's failure to furnish such proof or
notice in the manner provided for in this subsection B8 shall in no event
create any civil liability upon the court, the court clerk, the state or any
political subdivision thereof, or any state department or agency or any
employee thereof, but duplicate proof shall be furnished to the person entitled
thereto upon request. (1994 Code § 6-114; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 47 OS §§ 789 and 790.
1-8-11: SCHEDULE OF FINES:
   The town board of trustees may establish a minimum fine schedule. The
minimum fine schedule, when established, shall provide for a minimum amount
which a person may pay upon a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the listed
offenses. The minimum fine schedule shall include fine, court costs and any
assessments set by state law within the specified amount. Upon plea of guilty
or nolo contendere and payment of the required minimum fine prior to the date
scheduled for court appearance, no further court appearance shall be required.
The judge may authorize the court clerk to accept pleas of guilty and nolo
contendere where the amount of the minimum fine is paid at the time of such
plea and prior to the scheduled court appearance date. (1994 Code § 6-111)
1-8-12: PROSECUTIONS PROCEDURE:
   A.   Style Of Prosecutions: All prosecutions for violation of ordinances of
the town shall be styled The Town of Wayne, Oklahoma vs. (naming defendant or
defendants).
   B.   Written Complaint: Except as provided hereinafter, prosecutions shall
be initiated by the filing of a written complaint, subscribed and verified by
the person making the complaint, and setting forth concisely the offense
charged.
   C.   Town Options: There is no duty on the part of the town or any of its
officers or employees to formally prosecute actions in the court. In the
absence of a prosecuting officer, the judge shall proceed with the case and
hear evidence and examine witnesses in such manner as he may deem necessary to
effect justice.
   D.   Court Cost Fee: Any person, except a police officer or other employee
of the town, filing a criminal offense complaint in the municipal court shall
deposit with the clerk of the court, unless waived by order of the court, the
court cost fee as provided in this chapter. The court costs so deposited by
such a complainant shall be refunded to the complainant or person depositing
same upon conviction or acquittal of the defendant. The court costs shall not
be refunded if the charges are dismissed at the request of the complainant who
made the deposit because the complainant fails or refuses to appear in court to
testify or aid in the prosecution of the charge filed by such complainant.
   E.   Defects In Complaint: All defects in the form or substance apparent on
the face of a complaint charging a violation of an ordinance of the town, and
being grounds for motion or demur, may only be raised by an accused in writing
and prior to trial.
   F.   Amendment Of Complaint: A complaint may be amended in matter of
substance or form at any time before the defendant pleads, without leave, and
may be amended after plea or order of the court where the same can be done
without material prejudice to the rights of the defendant. No amendment shall
cause any delay of the trial, unless good cause is shown by affidavit. (1994
Code § 6-112)
1-8-13: CITATIONS:
   A.   Residents Of Town: If a resident of the town is arrested by a law
enforcement officer for the violation of any traffic ordinance for which other
provisions of this chapter do not apply, or is arrested for the violation of a
nontraffic ordinance, the officer shall immediately release the person if the
person acknowledges receipt of a citation by signing it. However, the arresting
officer need not release the person if it reasonably appears to the officer
that the person may cause injury to himself or others or damage to property if
released, that the person will not appear in response to the citation, or the
person is arrested for an offense against a person or property. If the person
fails to appear in response to the citation, a warrant shall be issued for his
arrest, and his appearance shall be compelled. If the arrested resident is not
released by being permitted to sign a citation as provided in this subsection,
he shall be admitted to bail either before or after arraignment, or shall be
released on personal recognizance.
   B.   Nonresidents Of Town: If a nonresident of the town is arrested by a law
enforcement officer for a violation of any ordinance for which subsection
1-8-10B of this chapter does not apply, the defendant shall be eligible to be
admitted to bail either before or after arraignment.
   C.   Parking Violations 1 : If the alleged offense is a violation of an
ordinance restricting or regulating the parking of vehicles, including any
regulations issued under such an ordinance, and the operator is not present,
the police officer shall place on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to
come to the notice of the operator, a citation conforming substantially to that
prescribed in this section, with such variation as the circumstances require.
The operator of the vehicle shall be under the same obligation to respond to
the citation as if it had been issued to him personally under subsection A of
this section. (1994 Code § 6-113)
 
Notes
1 See also subsection
  7-11-3B of this code.
1-8-14: SUMMONS:
   A.   Warrant Of Arrest Issuance: Upon the filing of a complaint charging
violation of an ordinance, the judge, unless he determines to issue a warrant
of arrest, or unless the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has
been arrested and has given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons, naming
the person charged, specifying his address or place of residence, if known,
stating the offense with which he is charged and giving him notice to answer
the charge in the court on a day certain, containing a provision for the
official return of the summons, and including such other pertinent information
as may be necessary.
   B.   Serving Summons: The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to
the defendant personally or by certified mail. If he fails to appear and to
answer the summons within the prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for
his arrest, as provided by this chapter. (1994 Code § 6-115)
1-8-15: FAILURE TO APPEAR:
   A.   Summons Or Traffic Citation: Any person who has been duly served with a
summons or traffic citation and who has signed a written promise to appear in
court as directed in the summons or the citation or as subsequently directed by
the court, and who fails to appear pursuant to his written promise or as
directed by the court, shall be deemed guilty of an offense, which shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1994 Code § 6-115)
   B.   Bond:
      1.   If, without sufficient excuse, a defendant fails to appear according
to the terms or conditions of his bond, either for hearing, arraignment, trial
or judgment, or upon any other occasion when his presence in court or before
the judge may be lawfully required or ordered, the judge may direct that fact
to be entered upon the court minutes, thereby declaring the bond to be
forfeited. The judge may also order a bench warrant to be issued for the
defendant as provided in this chapter.
      2.   Court costs shall be collectible from the proceeds of the bond.
(1994 Code § 6-116; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Complainants And Witnesses: No person, having signed a complaint in the
municipal court of the town alleging the violation of an ordinance, or any
other person in response to an order of the court, shall fail, refuse or
neglect to appear for the purpose of testifying as a witness at the trial of
the case, after having been notified of the time, date and place at which the
case is set for trial. (1994 Code § 6-117)
   D.   Violation; Penalty:
      1.   Violation An Offense: Any person who is charged with a violation of
this code and who, having been duly issued a summons, or having been arraigned
and released on recognizance, or having made a promise to appear, and violates
such recognizance, or fails to answer the summons, or fails to honor a promise
to appear and does not voluntarily appear before the court on the appointed
date and time, regardless of the disposition of the charge for which the
citation was originally issued, shall be guilty of an offense.
      2.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate the provisions of this
subsection by failing to appear in the municipal court shall be deemed guilty
of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed two hundred seven dollars ($207.00), and costs. (Ord., 5-3-1999)
1-8-16: WARRANT OF ARREST:
   A.   Form Of Warrant: Except as otherwise provided by town ordinance, upon
the filing of a complaint approved by endorsement by the town attorney or by
the judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest, in substantially the
following form:
      The Town of Wayne, Oklahoma to the police chief of the Town of Wayne,
Oklahoma. Complaint upon oath this day has been made by (naming complainant)
that the offense of (naming the offense in general terms) has been committed
and accusing (name of defendant) thereof, you are commanded therefor forthwith
to arrest the above named (name of defendant) and bring (insert him, her or
them, as appropriate) before me, at (naming the place).
      Witness my hand this       day of           , 20     .
                                     
   Judge of the Municipal
   Court of
   Wayne, Oklahoma
   B.   Police To Execute Warrant: It is the duty of the police chief
personally, or through a duly constituted member of the town police force or
through any other person lawfully authorized so to act, to execute the warrant
as promptly as possible. (1994 Code § 6-118; amd. 2004 Code)
1-8-17: BAIL OR BOND:
   A.   Bail: Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to
citation or summons, or at any time before trial, before or after arraignment,
the defendant may be eligible to be released upon giving bail for his
appearance in an amount and upon conditions fixed by this chapter or the judge,
who shall prescribe appropriate rules of the court for the receipt of bail and
release of the defendant. In case of arrests made at night or under other
conditions of emergency or when the judge is not available, the rules shall
authorize the chief of police, or his designated representative, to accept a
temporary cash bond of not less than twenty dollars ($20.00) nor more than the
maximum monetary penalty provided by ordinance for the offense charged. The
judge or police chief is authorized, subject to conditions as may be prescribed
by the judge, to release a resident of the town on personal recognizance.
   B.   Bail Bond Schedule: The town's bail bond schedule setting forth
specific offenses and bail bond amounts and procedures therefor, as amended
from time to time, is hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference.
Copies of said schedule are on file in the office of the town clerk-treasurer
for public use and inspection. (1994 Code § 6-119; amd. 2004 Code)
1-8-18: ARRAIGNMENT:
   Upon making his appearance before the court, the defendant shall be
arraigned. The judge or the town attorney shall read the complaint to the
defendant, inform him of his legal rights, including the right of trial by
jury, if available, and of the consequences of conviction, and ask him whether
he pleads guilty or not guilty. If the defendant pleads guilty, the court may
proceed to judgment and sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent
disposition. If the plea is not guilty, and the case is not for jury trial, the
court may proceed to try the case, or may set it for hearing at a later date.
(1994 Code § 6-120)
1-8-19: TRIALS; JUDGMENTS:
   A.   Postponement: Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause
shown, may obtain a reasonable postponement thereof. (1994 Code § 6-121)
   B.   Presence Of Defendant: The defendant must be present in person at the
trial of his case in court. (1994 Code § 6-122)
   C.   Procedure: In all trials, as to matters not covered in this chapter, by
the statutes relating to municipal criminal courts, or by rules duly
promulgated by the state supreme court, the procedure applicable in trials of
misdemeanors in the district courts shall apply to the extent that they can be
made effective. (1994 Code § 6-123)
   D.   Right To Trial By Jury:
      1.   In all prosecutions for violations of ordinances punishable by fine
of more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), or by imprisonment, or by both fine
and imprisonment, trial shall be by jury unless waived by the defendant and the
town. If trial by jury is waived, trial shall be by the court. (1994 Code § 6-
124; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   At arraignment, the defendant shall be asked whether he demands or
waives trial by jury. His election shall be recorded in the minutes of the
arraignment and entered on the docket of the court respecting proceedings in
the case.
      3.   An election waiving jury trial, made at arraignment, may be changed
by the defendant at any time prior to the day for which trial by the court is
set. An election demanding jury trial may be changed at any time prior to the
commencement of proceedings to impanel the jury for the trial; but if that
change occurs after the case has been set for jury trial, it may not thereafter
be rechanged so as again to demand trial by jury. (1994 Code § 6-124)
   E.   Judgments:
      1.   Judgment Required; Types: At the close of trial, judgment must be
rendered without undue delay by the judge, who shall cause it to be entered in
his docket:
         a.   If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be
detained for any other legal cause, he must be discharged at once;
         b.   If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after trial, the
court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the limits
prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence accordingly; and
         c.   A judgment that the defendant pay a fine may direct also that he
be imprisoned until the fine is satisfied, as provided in subsection
1-8-20B of this chapter. (1994 Code § 6-125)
      2.   Judgment Of Imprisonment: If, after conviction, judgment of
imprisonment is entered, a copy thereof, certified by the clerk, shall be
delivered to the chief of police, the sheriff of the county, or other
appropriate officer. Such copy shall be sufficient warrant for execution of the
sentence. (1994 Code § 6-126)
      3.   Suspension Or Deferment Of Judgment:
         a.   The judge of the court, in imposing a judgment and sentence, at
his discretion, is empowered to modify, reduce or suspend or defer the
imposition of such sentence or any part thereof and to authorize the person to
be released upon his own recognizance for a period not to exceed six (6) months
from the date of the sentence, under such terms or conditions as the judge may
specify. The judge may, with the consent of the defendant, defer further
proceedings, after a verdict, finding or plea of guilty, but before passing a
judgment of guilt and imposing a fine, and place the defendant on probation for
a period not to exceed six (6) months, under such terms and conditions as
prescribed by the court, which may include, but not be limited to, work on the
streets, parks or other town owned or maintained projects, with proper
supervision.
         b.   A defendant is not entitled to a deferred sentence if the
defendant has been previously convicted of a felony.
         c.   Upon a finding of the court that the conditions of release have
been violated, the municipal judge may enter a judgment of guilty and may cause
a warrant to be issued for the defendant.
         d.   Upon the issuance of the warrant or judgment of guilty being
entered, the person shall be delivered forthwith to the place of confinement to
which he is sentenced and shall serve out the full term or pay the full fine
for which he was originally sentenced as may be directed by the judge.
         e.   The judge may continue or delay imposing a judgment and sentence
for a period of time not to exceed six (6) months from the date of the
sentence. At the expiration of such period, the judge may allow the town
attorney to amend the charge to a lesser offense. (1994 Code § 6-127)
         f.   If a deferred sentence is imposed, an administrative fee as
provided in section
2-2-1 of this code may be imposed as costs in the case. The court may make
payment of the fee a condition of granting or continuing the imposition of a
sentence, if the defendant is able to pay. (1994 Code § 6-127; amd. 2004 Code)
         g.   The court may also require restitution, and in the event there
was damage done to public or private property during the commission of the
offense, the court may require the defendant to repair or replace such damaged
property as a condition to a deferred sentence as may be directed by the court.
(1994 Code § 6-127)
1-8-20: COURT COSTS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Fines And Costs: If judgment of conviction is entered, the clerk of the
court shall tax the costs to the defendant in the sum as provided in section
2-2-1 of this code, or the maximum sum permitted by state law, whichever is
greater, plus the fees and mileage of jurors and witnesses, all of which the
defendant shall pay, in addition to any fine that may be imposed. (1994 Code §
6-128; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Enforcement Of Fines And Costs:
      1.   Imprisonment: If a defendant who is financially able refuses or
neglects to pay a fine or costs or both, payment may be enforced by
imprisonment until the same shall be satisfied at the rate as provided in
section
2-2-1 of this code.
      2.   Certified To District Court: If the defendant is without means to
pay the fine or costs, the municipal judge may direct the total amount due to
be entered upon the court minutes and to be certified to the district court
where it shall be entered upon the district court docket and shall have the
full force and effect of a district court judgment. Thereupon, the same
remedies shall be available for the enforcement as are available to any other
judgment creditor. (1994 Code § 6-129; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections 1 : In all cases where the
same offense is made punishable or is created by different sections of this
code, the town attorney may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense. (1994 Code
§ 6-130)
   D.   Contempt Of Court: Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by
the court may be enforced by the judge, who may fine or imprison for contempt
committed as to him while holding court, or committed against process issued by
him in the same manner and to the same extent as the district courts of the
state. (1994 Code § 6-131)
   E.   Penalty Assessments 2 :
      1.   Any person:
         a.   Convicted of an offense punishable by a fine of ten dollars
($10.00) or more or by imprisonment, excluding parking and standing violations;
or
         b.   Forfeiting bond when charged with such an offense under
subsection E1a of this section, shall pay a sum as set by state law as a
separate penalty assessment for law enforcement training, and as a separate
fingerprinting fee, which shall be in addition to and not in substitution for
any and all fines and penalties and costs otherwise provided for such offense.
The court shall provide for separate bail for the assessments; however, a
defendant admitted to bail on an undertaking by a surety may include the amount
of the assessment in the undertaking.
      2.   Upon conviction or bond forfeiture, the court shall collect the
assessment and deposit the monies for payment as required by state law.
      3.   At the end of every quarter, the town shall deposit with the
Oklahoma state treasury the funds deposited in the law enforcement training
funds and the AFIS (automated fingerprint identification) fund as required by
law. The court clerk shall also furnish to the state treasury reports required
on the funds collected and penalty assessments imposed each quarter.
      4.   For the purpose of this subsection, "conviction" means any final
adjudication of guilt, whether pursuant to a plea of guilty or nolo contendere,
or otherwise, and any deferred or suspended sentence or judgment. (1994 Code §
6-132)
   F.   Failure To Pay Fines:
      1.   All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of
competent jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law.
      2.   The failure to pay a fine levied pursuant to this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense against the town, subject to a fine as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1994 Code § 6-133)
      3.   If a fine is not paid by the defendant, the fine may be collected by
committing the defendant to jail where he shall remain until his fine and any
costs assessed against him are discharged by payment or by confinement in jail.
(1994 Code § 6-133; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 See also subsection
  1-4-2B of this title.
2 See also section
  2-2-1 of this code.
***** CHAPTER 9
TOWN RECORDS *****
SECTION:
1-9-1: Custodians Of Records
1-9-2: Requests For Records
1-9-3: Procedures
1-9-4: Fees
1-9-1: CUSTODIANS OF RECORDS:
   A.   Official Custodian; Clerk-Treasurer Serve As: The town clerk-treasurer
is hereby appointed as official custodian for purposes of the Oklahoma open
records act 1  and is charged with responsibility for compliance with that act
with respect to all public records kept and maintained in the town clerk-
treasurer's office and all other public records not provided for in this
chapter. (1994 Code § 2-301)
   B.   Additional Record Custodians:
      1.   Designation: The official custodian appointed in subsection A of
this section is hereby authorized to designate any subordinate officers or
employees to serve as record custodians. The record custodians shall have such
duties and powers as are set out in the Oklahoma open records act.
      2.   Register Kept: Whenever the official custodian shall appoint another
person as a record custodian, such designation shall be maintained in a
register kept by the town clerk-treasurer. (1994 Code § 2-302; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Duties Of Custodians: All town officials and employees appointed or
designated under this chapter shall:
      1.   Protect public records from damage and disorganization;
      2.   Prevent excessive disruption of the essential functions of the town;
      3.   Provide assistance and information upon request;
      4.   Ensure efficient and timely action and response to all applications
for inspection of public records; and
      5.   Carry out the procedures adopted by the town for inspecting and
copying open public records. (1994 Code § 2-303)
 
Notes
1 51 OS § 24.A.1 et seq.
1-9-2: REQUESTS FOR RECORDS:
   A.   All members of the public, in seeking access to, or copies of, a public
record in accordance with the provisions of the Oklahoma open records act,
shall address their requests to the custodian charged with responsibility for
the maintenance of the record sought to be inspected or copied.
   B.   Whenever any town official or employee appointed or designated as a
custodian under this chapter is presented with a request for access to, or copy
of, a public record, which record the custodian does not have in his possession
and which he has not been given responsibility to keep and maintain, the
custodian shall so advise the person requesting the record. The person making
the request shall be informed as to which custodian the request should be
addressed, if such is known by the custodian receiving the request. (1994 Code
§ 2-304)
1-9-3: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Procedures Regarding Both Inspection And Copying Of Open Public
Records: The following procedures regarding both inspection and copying of open
public records are hereby adopted and shall be applied by the official
custodian and record custodian: (1994 Code § 2-305; amd. 2004 Code)
      1.   Consistent with the policy, duties and procedures established by the
Oklahoma open records act, record custodians shall provide full access and
assistance in a timely and efficient manner to persons who request access to
open public records;
      2.   Record custodians shall protect the integrity and organization of
public records with respect to the manner in which such records are inspected
and copied;
      3.   Record custodians may prevent excessive disruptions of essential
functions and provide the record at the earliest possible time;
      4.   All inspections and copying of open public records shall be
performed by or under the supervision of the record custodian responsible for
such records;
      5.   All persons requesting the inspection of or a copy of open public
records shall make such request in writing prior to the request being honored;
except, that no form shall be required for requests made for records which have
been reproduced for free public distribution;
      6.   All record inspection and copying forms are to be completed by the
person requesting the record. The record custodian may demand reasonable
identification of any person requesting a record;
      7.   Any fees for record inspection or for copies are due at the time the
records, or copies thereof, are provided to the requester, unless the record
custodian has demanded that prepayment of all or part of such fees be made.
Fees are to be paid to the record custodian or town clerk-treasurer;
      8.   The record custodian or town clerk-treasurer shall demand full or
partial prepayment of fees whenever the estimate for such fees exceeds the
amount set out in subsection 1-9-4B of this chapter;
      9.   No record search or copying fee shall be assessed against officers
or employees of the town who make requests which are reasonably necessary to
the performance of their official duties;
      10.   Hours for making requests for inspection or copying shall be all
regular working hours for each day the office maintains regular office hours;
      11.   Removal of open public records from the office where kept and
maintained, for purposes of inspection or the making of copies, shall not be
permitted; and
      12.   The above procedures, as well as any other inspection and copying
procedures, shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the office of the record
custodian. (1994 Code § 2-305)
   B.   Procedures Regarding Inspection Of Open Public Records: The following
procedures regarding inspection of open public records are hereby adopted and
shall be applied by every official custodian and record custodian: (1994 Code §
2-306; amd. 2004 Code)
      1.   Record custodians shall handle all inspection requests in accordance
with their duties to protect and preserve public records and to assist persons
requesting inspection of open public records;
      2.   All request forms must be completed by the party requesting the
record. In all cases, the party so requesting must sign his or her individual
name to the form. Written requests shall be made on the form provided by the
record custodian and presented to the record custodian;
      3.   A written request is sufficient if it reasonably describes the
record sought. In instances where the requester cannot provide sufficient
information to identify a record, the custodian shall assist in making such
identification; and
      4.   The record custodian shall, upon making a denial of an inspection
request, forward a copy of the denial to the town clerk-treasurer. (1994 Code §
2-306)
   C.   Procedures Regarding Copies Of Open Public Records: The following
procedures apply regarding copies of records:
      1.   Record custodians shall handle all copy requests in accordance with
their duties to protect and preserve public records and to assist persons
requesting copies of open public records;
      2.   All request forms must be completed by the party requesting the
copies. In all cases, the party so requesting must sign his or her individual
name to the form. Written requests shall be made on the form provided by the
record custodian;
      3.   Mechanical reproduction of a record shall not be undertaken when it
is the judgment of the record custodian that any available means of
mechanically reproducing the subject record is likely to cause damage to such
records; and
      4.   No copy fee shall be assessed when multiple copies of the record
requested have been prepared for free public distribution, or when the record
custodian determines that the cost of charging and handling the fee exceeds the
cost of providing a copy without charge. (1994 Code § 2-307)
1-9-4: FEES 1 :
   A.   Fees Established:
      1.   Inspections: Where a request has been made for the inspection of an
open public record, no fee shall be charged.
      2.   Copies:
         a.   A fee per page as set by the board of trustees by motion or
resolution shall be charged for photocopying an open public record, such fee to
cover the cost of labor, materials and equipment.
         b.   For copying any open public record which cannot be reproduced by
photocopying, such as a computer printout or a blueprint, the requester shall
be charged the actual cost to the town, including the cost of labor, materials
and equipment. (1994 Code § 2-308)
         c.   A fee for search and copying of police records and reports for
the public for certain things are public records in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 1-9-4A2C, 11-2-2009)
      3.   Search: A search fee shall be charged a requester who is using the
record solely for a commercial purpose. Such fee shall be the actual cost to
the town of producing the record, including the cost of labor, materials and
equipment.
   B.   Prepayment: A record custodian may demand prepayment of a fee whenever
the estimated amount exceeds twenty dollars ($20.00). The prepayment amount
shall be an estimate of the cost of copying, mechanical reproduction or
searching for the record. Any overage or underage in the prepayment amount
shall be settled prior to producing the requested record or delivering the copy
or mechanical reproduction of the record. (1994 Code § 2-308)
 
Notes
1 See section
  2-2-1 of this code for specific fee amounts.
TITLE 2
FINANCE AND TAXATION
***** CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCE PROVISIONS *****
SECTION:
2-1-1: Deposit Of Town Funds
2-1-2: Investment Of Town Funds
2-1-3: Authority To Purchase, Sell And Transfer Property
2-1-4: Contracts And Purchases
2-1-5: Sales Of Surplus Or Obsolete Property
2-1-1: DEPOSIT OF TOWN FUNDS:
   A.   Depositories Designated: All banks and financial institutions as are
designated by the town board of trustees shall be designated as depositories
for the funds of the town.
   B.   Clerk-Treasurer's Duties: The town clerk-treasurer shall deposit daily
all public funds received by him in such banks. Funds may be transferred from
one depository to another upon direction of the clerk-treasurer. (1994 Code
§ 7-102)
   C.   Securing Of Deposits: The deposits of the town shall be secured as
provided by state law. (1994 Code § 7-103; amd. 2004 Code)
2-1-2: INVESTMENT OF TOWN FUNDS:
   The town clerk-treasurer, or any other person authorized to invest public
monies, shall invest the same in those investments authorized by the town board
of trustees or authorized by state law in a manner authorized by either or both
such board of trustees and statutes. (1994 Code § 7-101)
2-1-3: AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE, SELL AND TRANSFER PROPERTY:
   The town purchasing authority shall contract for and purchase all supplies,
materials and equipment for the offices, departments and agencies of the town.
The purchasing authority may also transfer to or between offices, departments
and agencies, or sell surplus or obsolete supplies, materials and equipment.
(1994 Code § 7-104)
2-1-4: CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES:
   A.   Definition: The term "contractual services", for the purpose of this
section, means services performed for the town by persons not in the employment
of the town, and may include the use of equipment or the furnishing of
commodities in connection with such services under express or implied contract.
"Contractual services" includes travel; freight; express; parcel post; postage;
telephone; telegraph; utilities; rents; repairs, alterations, and maintenance
of buildings, equipment, streets, and bridges, and other physical facilities of
the town; and other services performed for the town by persons not in the
employment of the town. (1994 Code § 7-105)
   B.   Purchases Requiring Board Approval And Bidding; Procedures:
      1.   Before a contract shall be entered into, or any such purchase made
involving the expenditure of more than forty nine thousand nine hundred ninety
nine dollars ($49,999.00), such contract shall:
            a.   Be approved by the town board of trustees.
            b.   Be submitted for competitive bidding, except as provided in
this chapter.
            c.   Have written notice given by the town purchasing authority for
sealed bids for the furnishing of such supplies, materials or equipment where
competitive bidding is required hereunder.
      2.   The notice required in this subsection shall state the time and
place for filing the bids, shall contain an ample description of the supplies,
materials and equipment to be purchased or sold, the time and place the bids
will be opened, and that all bids may be rejected.
      3.   The bids shall be in writing and sealed and filed with the town
clerk- treasurer prior to the time they are to be opened. (1994 Code § 7-104)
      4.   The bids may be rejected or the town may readvertise for bids or,
after due consideration thereof, may award a contract to purchase such
supplies, materials or equipment from the lowest responsible bidder. However,
the town purchasing authority may, at his option, purchase any such materials,
supplies and equipment through central purchasing of the state. (1994 Code § 7-
104)
   C.   Bidding Not Required: The following may be purchased without giving an
opportunity for competitive bidding:
      1.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services where cost
does not exceed forty-nine thousand nine hundred ninety-nine dollars
($49,999.00) in a single transaction;
      2.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services which can be
furnished only by a single dealer or a sole source vendor, or which have a
uniform price wherever bought;
      3.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services purchased
from another unit of government at a price deemed below that obtainable from
private dealers, including war surplus, or purchased at auction at a price
deemed below that obtainable elsewhere;
      4.   Contractual services (gas, electricity, telephone service, and the
like) purchased from a public utility at a price or rate determined by the
state corporation commission or other government authority;
      5.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services when
purchased at a price not exceeding a price set therefor by the state purchasing
agency or any other state agency authorized to regulate prices for things
purchased by the state (whether such price is determined by a contract
negotiated with a vendor or otherwise);
      6.   Contractual services of a professional nature, such as engineering,
architectural, medical and legal services; or
      7.   When an emergency is declared to exist.
   D.   Any original purchase receipt that is not signed and turned into the
town treasurer within ten (10) days of the purchase will require the payback or
reimbursement of such purchase to the town. Such payback or reimbursement to
the town will be made within ten (10) days written notice from the town that
payback or reimbursement is required.
(1994 Code § 7-105; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 2-1-4B1, 8-7-2017; Ord. 2024-01, 9-9-
2024; Ord. 2025-06, 4-7-2025)
2-1-5: SALES OF SURPLUS OR OBSOLETE PROPERTY:
   A.   Declaration Of Surplus Or Obsolescence: No surplus or obsolete
supplies, materials or equipment of a value of more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) may be sold until the procedures outlined in this section have been
followed.
   B.   Bidding Not Required: The town purchasing authority may sell the
following without giving an opportunity for competitive bidding:
      1.   Surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment whose total
value does not exceed seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500.00) in a
single transaction; or
      2.   Supplies, materials or equipment when sold at a price at least as
great as that paid by the town for the same; or
      3.   Where the board of trustees has authorized the sale of surplus
property at public auction under such terms, conditions and notice as the board
of trustees may prescribe or as the town purchasing authority deems
appropriate. (1994 Code § 7-106)
   C.   Sales Requiring Board Approval And Bidding; Procedures: For sales of
surplus or obsolete property with a value of seven thousand five hundred
dollars ($7,500.00) or more, the provisions of subsection
2-1-4B of this chapter shall be applicable. (2004 Code)
***** CHAPTER 2
FEES, RATES AND CHARGES *****
SECTION:
2-2-0: Purpose
2-2-1: Administration
2-2-2: Finance And Taxation
2-2-3: Business Regulations
2-2-4: Health And Sanitation
2-2-5: Public Safety
2-2-6: Public Ways And Property
2-2-7: Utilities
2-2-8: Building Regulations
2-2-0: PURPOSE:
   For the purpose of providing a clear and concise listing of the fees and
charges authorized by the provisions of this code, a schedule of fees and
charges, or fee schedule, is hereby set forth in this chapter. The underlined
heading gives the title of the appropriate chapters or articles, as applicable.
This schedule was adopted May 2, 1994, by resolution 94-9, and may be amended
from time to time by motion or resolution of the town board. (1994 Code app. 1)
2-2-1: ADMINISTRATION:
Code Section Description Of Fee, Rate Or Charge Amount Of Fee, Rate Or Charge
              
Code Section Description Of Fee, Rate Or      Amount Of Fee, Rate Or Charge
             Charge   
            Municipal Court                   
                                            
1-8-19E3     Deferred sentence to pay         $100.00
             municipal court clerk
                                            
                                              $25.00 or maximum sum required
1-8-20A      Judgment of conviction costs     by state law; plus fees and
                                              mileage of jurors and witnesses
                                            
             Enforcement of fines and costs,  $5.00 per each day of
1-8-20B      by imprisonment                  imprisonment applied toward
                                              fines and costs
                                            
             Penalty assessment for law
1-8-20E      enforcement training, and as a   $10.00
             separate fingerprinting fee as
             set by state law
                                            
            Town Records                      
                                            
1-9-4A2a     Photocopying fee for open public 0.25
             records, per sheet
                                            
             Computer printout or blueprint   $25.00, plus $2.00 per each
1-9-4A2b     for open public record           black and white copy and $5.00
                                              per each color copy
                                            
             Search fee for police records    $1.75
1-9-4A2c     Photocopying fee for police      0.25
             records, per page
 
1-9-4A3      Search fee for commercial        $7.00 per hour, plus actual cost
             purposes
                                            
1-9-4B       Prepayment when estimated cost   $50.00
             exceeds $20.00
                                              
            Fax transmittal, per page        1.00
 
(1994 Code appendix 1; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 1-9-4A2C, 11-2-2009)
2-2-2: FINANCE AND TAXATION:
 
Code Section Description Of Fee, Rate Or Amount Of Fee, Rate Or Charge
             Charge   
2-3A-3       Sales tax                   3%
                                        
2-3B-3       Use tax                     2%
                                        
2-3C-1       Utilities tax               2%
 
(1994 Code appendix 1; amd. 2004 Code)
2-2-3: BUSINESS REGULATIONS:
Code Section Description Of Fee, Rate Or Charge Amount Of Fee, Rate Or Charge
Code Section Description Of Fee, Rate Or       Amount Of Fee, Rate Or Charge
             Charge
            Alcoholic Beverages                
                                               
             Occupation tax for alcoholic       
             beverages
              Wholesaler                       $3,500.00
              Class B wholesaler               625.00
                                                
              Retail package store              
                  Initial                  305.00
                  Renewal                  200.00
                                                
4-2-2A        Mixed beverage establishment      
                  Initial                  1,005.00
                  Renewal                  905.00
                                                
              Caterer                           
                  Initial                  1,005.00
                  Renewal                  905.00
                                                
             Special event                     An amount not above the state
                                               fee
                                               
            Low Point Beer                     
                                               
             Retail dealer license for sales    
             of low point beer
              Sales for consumption on or off  $25.00
4-3-4         the premises, per year
                                               
              Sales in original packages not
              for consumption on the premises, 25.00
              per year
                                               
            Peddlers, Solicitors             
             And Itinerant Vendors
                                               
             Peddler licenses                   
              Per day                          25.00
              Per year                         50.00
                                                
4-4-2        Solicitor licenses                 
              Per day                          25.00
              Per year                         50.00
                                                
             Garage/yard sale permit           5.00
 
(1994 Code appendix 1; amd. 2004 Code)
2-2-4: HEALTH AND SANITATION:
Code Section Description Of Fee, Rate Or Amount Of Fee, Rate Or Charge
             Charge   
Code Section Description Of Fee, Rate Or         Amount Of Fee, Rate Or Charge
             Charge   
5-2-9        Summary abatement of nuisances,     actual cost
             costs charged to owner
                                                  
5-3-4        Cleaning and mowing weeds, grass or actual cost
             trash, costs charged to owner
                                                  
             Dismantling and removal or boarding
5-4-3        or securing dilapidated building,   actual cost
             costs charged to owner
                                                
             Removal of abandoned, wrecked,
5-5-3C       dismantled, inoperable, junked      actual cost
             vehicle; costs to owner
 
(1994 Code appendix 1; amd. 2004 Code)
2-2-5: PUBLIC SAFETY:
Code Section Description Of Fee, Rate Or Amount Of Fee, Rate Or Charge
             Charge   
Code Section Description Of Fee, Rate Or Charge               Amount Of Fee,
                                                                 Rate Or Charge
            Fire Department                                      
                                                                 
             Charges for specific type calls                      
                              Cars, grass, structures, MVAs,      
                              etc.
                                  Initial                    $250.00
                                  At the scene/per hour, per 60.00
                              truck
                                                                 
             Regarding structure fires, residents in town do not
             receive a bill for the call, but the Fire
             Department is allowed to bill the Insurance
6-2-11       Company. The charges for specific types of calls     
             may be set by resolution annually by the Town Board
             of Trustees and made available to the public for
             review. Said changes will be effective May 1 each
             year
                                                                 
             The charges for specific types of calls may be set
             by resolution annually by the Town Board of
6-2A-3       Trustees and made available to the public for        
             review. Said changes will be effective May 1 each
             year
                                                                  
             Rural fire service membership will incur a
             membership fee which may be set by resolution
6-2B-3       annually by the Town Board of Trustees and made      
             available to the public for review. Said changes
             will be effective May 1 each year
                                                                 
            Animals                                              
                                                                 
6-4-9A       Rabies vaccination certificate furnished by         35.00
             veterinarian
                                                                 
6-4-9B2      Dog or cat over 6 months, license fee               5.00
             Impoundment of
             vicious,
             dangerous,
6-4-10       diseased animal; $35.00, plus contract fee
             expenses are the
             responsibility
             of the owner
             
             Impoundment fee
6-4-11B      for animal       $35.00, plus contract fee
             running at large
             
             Redeeming
6-4-11C, D   animal; pay      $35.00, plus contract fee
             required fees
             against animal
 
(1994 Code appendix 1; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 2025-07, 7-7-2025)
2-2-6: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY:
 
Code Section       Description Of Fee, Rate Or   Amount Of Fee, Rate Or Charge
                   Charge
8-1-3              Permit for structures on or   $25.00
                   over streets and sidewalks
                                               
Title 8, chapter 2 Permit for parades and public 10.00
                   assemblies
                                               
8-3-2              Recreational privileges on    10.00
                   property operated by the town
 
(1994 Code appendix 1)
2-2-7: UTILITIES:
Code Section Description Of Fee, Rate Or Charge Amount Of Fee, Rate Or Charge
Code Section Description Of Fee, Rate Or Charge   Amount Of Fee, Rate Or Charge
            Utilities Generally                   
             Utility deposits may be set by        
             resolution annually by the Town       
9-2-3        Board of Trustees and made available
             to the public for review. Said        
             changes will be effective June 1
             each year
             Disconnection service fee may be set
             by resolution annually by the Town
9-2-6B       Board of Trustees and made available  
             to the public for review. Said
             changes will be effective June 1
             each year
             Reconnection fee may be set by
             resolution annually by the Town
9-2-6C       Board of Trustees and made available  
             to the public for review. Said
             changes will be effective June 1
             each year
            Water Use And Service                 
             Water connection and tap fees may be
             set by resolution annually by the
9-3-2        Town Board of Trustees and made       
             available to the public for review.
             Said changes will be effective June
             1 each year
             Water rates may be set by resolution
             annually by the Town Board of
9-3-5        Trustees and made available to the    
             public for review. Said changes will
             be effective June 1 each year
              
            Sewer Use And Service                 
             Sewer connection and tap fees may be
             set by resolution annually by the
9-4-4A       Town Board of Trustees and made       
             available to the public for review.
             Said changes will be effective June
             1 each year
             Sewer rates may be set by resolution
             annually by the Town Board of
9-4-4B       Trustees and made available to the    
             public for review. Said changes will
             be effective June 1 each year
 
(1994 Code app. 1; amd. Ord. 119, 4-3-1995; Ord. 127, 11-4-1996; 2004 Code;
Ord. 2005-001, 2-7-2005; Res. 2005-02, 1-3-2006; Res. 2007-001, 5-7-2007; Res.
2007-002, 6-4-2007; Res. 2008-004, 6-1-2009, eff. 8-1-2009; Res. 2010-001, 10-
4-2010, eff. 11-30-2010; Res. 2011-01, 7-6-2011, eff. 7-6-2011; Res. 2015-003,
6-1-2015, eff. 7-1-2015; Res. 2024-2, 6-3-2024, eff. 7-12-2024; Ord. 2025-08,
7-7-2025)
2-2-8: BUILDING REGULATIONS:
Code Section Description Of Fee, Rate Or Amount Of Fee, Rate Or Charge
             Charge   
Code Section Description Of Fee, Rate Or          Amount Of Fee, Rate Or Charge
             Charge   
             Building permit                       
10-1-2         Residential                        $  100.00
               Commercial                         125.00
               Industrial                         150.00
            Plumbing Code And Regulations         
             State license and town registration   
10-2-2         Plumbing contractor, annual        25.00
               Journeyman plumber, annual         25.00
               Apprentice plumber, annual         25.00
            Electrical Code And Regulations       
             State license and town registration   
10-3-2         Electrical contractor, annual      25.00
               Journeyman electrician, annual     25.00
               Apprentice electrician, annual     25.00
            Fire Code And Regulations             
             New materials, processes or
10-4-2       occupancies which may require a      50.00
             permit
            Oil And Gas Wells
10-8-6B       Filing fee to drill original well  2,500.00
               or reenter abandoned well
10-8-6F       Annual and renewal fee for         100.00
               conduits
10-8-14A2     Filing fee for off site            2,500.00
               construction
10-8-15       Seismic exploration permit fee     2,500.00
10-8-22       Annual inspection fee to operate   100.00
               well
10-8-23       Reapplication fee when a change in 2,500.00
               ownership, interest or operator
 
(1994 Code app. 1; amd. 2004 Code)
***** CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL TAXES *****
**** ARTICLE A. SALES TAX ****
SECTION:
2-3A-1: Short Title
2-3A-2: Definitions
2-3A-3: Tax Imposed; Purpose
2-3A-4: Subsisting State Permits
2-3A-5: Classification Of Taxpayers
2-3A-6: Sales Subject To Tax; Exemptions
2-3A-7: Tax Due Date
2-3A-8: Payment Of Tax; Brackets
2-3A-9: Collection By Vendors
2-3A-10: Returns, Remittances And Discounts
2-3A-11: Delinquencies; Interest And Penalties
2-3A-12: Failure To File; Fraudulent Returns
2-3A-13: Enforcement Of Payment
2-3A-14: Refund Of Erroneous Payments
2-3A-15: Records Confidential
2-3A-16: Amendments
2-3A-17: Provisions Cumulative
2-3A-1: SHORT TITLE:
   This article shall be known and may be cited as TOWN OF WAYNE SALES TAX
ORDINANCE. (1994 Code § 7-201)
2-3A-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the state sales tax
code are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article.
   For the purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply:
   STATE SALES TAX CODE: Reference to the "state sales tax code" shall mean
such code as set out in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1350 et seq., as amended.
   TAX COLLECTOR: The department of the town or the official agency of the
state duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law or
contract to administer the collection of the tax levied by this article. (1994
Code § 7-202; amd. 2004 Code)
2-3A-3: TAX IMPOSED; PURPOSE:
   There is hereby levied an excise tax of three percent (3%) 1  upon the gross
proceeds or gross receipts derived from all sales taxable under the sales tax
code. The purpose of the revenues generated by the sales tax is to provide
revenue for the support of the functions of the municipal government of the
town or as otherwise provided in this chapter. (1994 Code §§ 7-205, 7-206; amd.
2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 See also section
  2-2-2 of this title.
2-3A-4: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma tax
commission pursuant to the Oklahoma sales tax code are, for the purposes of
this article, hereby ratified, confirmed, and adopted in lieu of any
requirement for an additional town permit for the same purpose. (1994 Code § 7-
204)
2-3A-5: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
   For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the state sales tax code.
(1994 Code § 7-203)
2-3A-6: SALES SUBJECT TO TAX; EXEMPTIONS:
   The town sales tax shall be levied upon the gross receipts or gross proceeds
of such sales as specified by Oklahoma statutes, and exemptions from such tax
shall be allowed pursuant to Oklahoma statutes. (2004 Code)
2-3A-7: TAX DUE DATE:
   The tax levied under the provisions of this article shall be due and payable
at the time and in the manner and form prescribed for payment of the state
sales tax under the state sales tax law. (1994 Code § 7-213)
2-3A-8: PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS:
   A.   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time
and in form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax under the sales
tax law of the state.
   B.   The bracket system for the collection of the town sales tax by the tax
collector shall be as the same is hereafter adopted by the agreement of the
town and the tax collector, in the collection of both the town sales tax and
the state sales tax. (1994 Code § 7-214)
2-3A-9: COLLECTION BY VENDORS:
   A.   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor, and each and every vendor shall collect from the consumer or user the
full amount of the tax levied, or an amount equal as nearly as possible or
practicable to the average equivalent thereof.
   B.   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added, such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to the vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same
manner as other debts.
   C.   No vendor shall wilfully or intentionally fail, neglect or refuse to
collect the full amount of the tax levied, or wilfully or intentionally fail,
neglect or refuse to comply with the provisions of this article, or remit or
rebate to a consumer or user, either directly or indirectly, and by whatever
means, all or any part of the tax herein levied, or make in any form of
advertising, verbally or otherwise, any statement which infers that he is
absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for the consumer or user by an adjustment
of prices or at a price including the tax, or in any manner whatsoever. (1994
Code § 7-216)
2-3A-10: RETURNS, REMITTANCES AND DISCOUNTS:
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the tax collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the state sales tax code;
and remittances of the tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same
discount as may be allowed by said code for collection of state sales taxes.
(1994 Code § 7-217)
2-3A-11: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Failure To Pay Tax: Section 217 of title 68, Oklahoma Statutes, is
hereby adopted and made a part of this article, and interest and penalties at
the rates and in the amounts as therein specified are hereby levied and shall
be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied
under this article. The failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and transmit
the reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this
article shall cause such tax to be delinquent. If the delinquency continues for
a period of five (5) days, the taxpayer shall forfeit his claim to any discount
allowed under this article. (1994 Code § 7-218)
   B.   Waiver: The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by
reason of a taxpayer's failure to pay the town tax herein levied may be waived
or remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver or remittance as
applied in administration of the state sales tax provided in 68 Oklahoma
Statutes section 220. To accomplish the purposes of this subsection, the
applicable provisions of said section 220 are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this article. (1994 Code § 7-219)
2-3A-12: FAILURE TO FILE; FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
   A.   No person shall:
      1.   Intentionally fail or refuse to make tax reports and remittances as
required under this article; or
      2.   Intentionally make false and fraudulent tax reports for the purpose
of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof due under this
article.
   B.   Any person required to collect and remit sales tax pursuant to the
state sales tax code or the town code, and engaging in any of the callings,
trades, avocations, professions, businesses or occupations for which a license
is required by the town, and applying for such license, must submit proof, as a
condition precedent to issuing such license, of a valid sales tax permit number
issued by the state.
   C.   Any license issued by the town to any person engaging in any of the
callings, trades, avocations, businesses, professions or occupations for which
a license is required by this code may be suspended or revoked for failure to
maintain a lawful sales tax license or collect and remit sales tax if and as
required by the state sales tax code or this code.
   D.   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, any
violation of this section shall subject the offending taxpayer to the penalty
set forth in section 1-4-1 of this code. Each day of such violation shall be
considered a separate offense and charged separately. (1994 Code § 7-221)
2-3A-13: ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT:
   The taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute
a prior, superior and paramount claim, as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (1994 Code § 7-215)
2-3A-14: REFUND OF ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS:
   Refund of erroneous payment of the town sales tax herein levied may be made
to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state sales tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227. To accomplish
the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said section 227 are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article. (1994 Code § 7-
224)
2-3A-15: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the town sales tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes
section 205 of the state sales tax code, and all subsections thereof, are
hereby adopted by reference and made fully effective and applicable to
administration of the town sales tax as if herein set forth in full. (1994 Code
§ 7-222)
2-3A-16: AMENDMENTS:
   The board of trustees, by ordinance duly enacted, is authorized to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner of
administrating and enforcing this article as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness; except, that the rate of the tax herein provided shall
not be changed without approval of the qualified electors of the town, as
provided by law. (1994 Code § 7-224)
2-3A-17: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
   The provisions of this article shall be cumulative and in addition to any
and all other taxing provisions of town ordinances. (1994 Code § 7-223)
**** ARTICLE B. USE TAX ****
SECTION:
2-3B-1: Short Title
2-3B-2: Definitions
2-3B-3: Tax Imposed; Subjects Of Taxation
2-3B-4: Exemptions From Tax
2-3B-5: Purposes Of Revenues
2-3B-6: Subsisting State Permits
2-3B-7: Classification Of Taxpayers
2-3B-8: Tax Due Date
2-3B-9: Collection Of Tax
2-3B-10: Revoking Permits
2-3B-11: Remunerative Deductions
2-3B-12: Delinquencies; Interest And Penalties
2-3B-13: Fraudulent Returns
2-3B-14: Enforcement Of Payment
2-3B-15: Refund Of Erroneous Payments
2-3B-16: Records Confidential
2-3B-17: Provisions Cumulative
2-3B-1: SHORT TITLE:
This article shall be known and may be cited as the TOWN OF WAYNE USE TAX.
(1994 Code § 7-301)
2-3B-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma use
tax code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1401, are hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this article. In addition thereto, the following words and
terms shall be defined as follows:
   TAX COLLECTOR: The department of the town government or the official agency
of the state, duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law,
to administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
   TRANSACTION: Sale. (1994 Code § 7-302)
2-3B-3: TAX IMPOSED; SUBJECTS OF TAXATION:
   There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing,
using or otherwise consuming within the town tangible, personal property
purchased or brought into the town, an excise tax of two percent (2%) 1  on the
storage, use or other consumption of such property within the town. Such tax
shall be paid by every person storing, using or otherwise consuming, within the
town, tangible, personal property purchased or brought into the town. The
additional tax levied hereunder shall be paid at the time of importation or
storage of the property within the town and shall be assessed to only property
purchased outside Oklahoma; provided, that the tax levied herein shall not be
levied against tangible, personal property intended solely for use outside the
town, but which is stored in the town pending shipment outside the town, or
which is temporarily retained in the town for the purpose of fabrication,
repair, testing, alteration, maintenance or other service. Any person liable
for payment of the tax authorized herein may deduct from such tax any local or
municipal sales tax previously paid on such goods or services; provided, that
the amount deducted shall not exceed the amount that would have been due if the
taxes imposed by the town had been levied on the sale of such goods or
services. (1994 Code § 7-303)
 
Notes
1 See also section
  2-2-2 of this title.
2-3B-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
   Exemptions from such taxes shall be allowed pursuant to Oklahoma Statutes.
(2004 Code)
2-3B-5: PURPOSES OF REVENUES:
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this article to provide revenues
for the support of the functions of the municipal government of the town, and
any and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the town board of
trustees for any purpose for which funds may be lawfully expended as
authorized. (1994 Code § 7-304)
2-3B-6: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the tax commission
pursuant to the Oklahoma use tax code are, for the purpose of this article,
hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for an
additional town permit for the same purpose. (1994 Code § 7-318)
2-3B-7: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
   For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Oklahoma use tax code.
(1994 Code § 7-316)
2-3B-8: TAX DUE DATE:
   The tax levied by this article is due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the use tax
code of the state. (1994 Code § 7-306)
2-3B-9: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   Retailer Or Vendor: Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of
business both within and without the state, and making sales of tangible,
personal property from a place of business outside the state for use in the
town shall, at the time of making such sales, collect the use tax levied by
this article from the purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in
the manner and form prescribed by the tax commission, if the tax commission
shall, by regulation, require such receipt. Each retailer or vendor shall list
with the tax commission the name and address of all his agents operating in the
town and location of any and all distribution or sales houses or offices or
other places of business in the town. (1994 Code § 7-308)
   B.   Place Of Business Not Maintained Within State Or Both Within And
Without State: The tax commission may, in its discretion, upon application,
authorize the collection of the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not
maintaining a place of business within the state but who makes sales of
tangible, personal property for use in the town and by the out of state place
of business of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both
within and without the state and making sales of tangible, personal property at
such out of state place of business for use in the town. Such retailer or
vendor may be issued, without charge, a permit to collect such taxes by the tax
commission in such manner and subject to such regulations and agreements as it
shall prescribe. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer or
vendor to collect the tax upon all tangible, personal property sold, to his
knowledge, for use within the town. Such authority and permit may be cancelled
when, at any time, the tax commission considers that such tax can more
effectively be collected from the person using such property in the town.
Provided, however, that in all instances where such sales are made or completed
by delivery to the purchaser within the town by the retailer or vendor in such
retailer's or vendor's vehicle, whether owned or leased (not by common
carrier), such sales or transactions shall continue to be subject to applicable
town sales tax at the point of delivery, and the tax shall be collected and
reported under taxpayer's sales tax permit number accordingly. (1994 Code § 7-
309)
2-3B-10: REVOKING PERMITS:
   Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in the
state, or both within and without the state, and authorized to collect the tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this article or
the Oklahoma use tax code or any orders, rules or regulations of the tax
commission, the tax commission may, upon notice and hearing as provided for in
68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1408, by order, revoke the use tax permit, if any,
issued to such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor is a
corporation authorized to do business in the state may, after notice and
hearing above provided, cancel said corporation's license to do business in the
state and shall issue a new license only when such corporation has complied
with the obligations under this article, the Oklahoma use tax code, or any
orders, rules or regulations of the tax commission. (1994 Code § 7-310)
2-3B-11: REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS:
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the tax commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma use tax code;
and remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same
discount as may be allowed by said code for the collection of state use taxes.
(1994 Code § 7-311)
2-3B-12: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Failure To Pay Tax: 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217 is hereby adopted
and made a part of this article, and interest and penalties at the rates and in
the amounts as therein specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in
cases of delinquency in reporting and payment of the tax levied by this
article. Provided, that the failure or refusal of any retailer or vendor to
make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner
required by this article shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if
such delinquency continues for a period of five (5) days, the retailer or
vendor shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed under this article.
(1994 Code § 7-312)
   B.   Waiver Of Interest And Penalties: The interest or penalty or any
portion thereof accruing by reason of a retailer's or vendor's failure to pay
the town tax herein levied may be waived or remitted in the same manner as
provided for said waiver or remittance as applied in administration of the
state use tax provided 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 220, and to accomplish the
purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of said section 220 are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article. (1994 Code § 7-
313; amd. 2004 Code)
2-3B-13: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, the wilful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein
required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under
this article shall be an offense, and upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of noncompliance with this article shall
constitute a separate offense. (1994 Code § 7-315)
2-3B-14: ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT:
   Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute
a prior, superior and paramount claim, as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (1994 Code § 7-307)
2-3B-15: REFUND OF ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS:
   Refund of erroneous payment of the town use tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state use tax, as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227, and to
accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said
section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article.
(1994 Code § 7-314)
2-3B-16: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the town use tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes
section 205, of the state use tax code, and each subsection thereof, is hereby
adopted by reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration
of the town use tax as if herein set forth in full. (1994 Code § 7-316)
2-3B-17: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of the town ordinances. (1994 Code § 7-319)
**** ARTICLE C. UTILITIES TAX ****
SECTION:
2-3C-1: Tax Levied
2-3C-2: Application Of Tax; Exception
2-3C-3: Due Date; Disposition Of Funds
2-3C-4: Failure To Pay Tax
2-3C-5: Tax Constitutes A Lien
2-3C-6: Nonfranchised Gas Suppliers
2-3C-1: TAX LEVIED:
   There is hereby levied and assessed an annual tax of two percent (2%) 1
upon the gross receipts from residential and commercial sales of power, light,
heat, gas, electricity or water in the town, which tax shall be in lieu of any
other franchise, license, occupation or excise tax levied by the town, all as
provided by 68 Oklahoma Statutes sections 2601 to 2605. (Ord. 02-4, 2-4-2002;
amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 See also section
  2-2-2 of this title.
2-3C-2: APPLICATION OF TAX; EXCEPTION:
   The tax levied under section
2-3C-1 of this article shall, when levied, apply to all persons, firms,
associations, or corporations engaged in the business of furnishing power,
light, heat, gas, electricity or water within the town limits, except it shall
not apply to any person, firm, association or corporation operating under a
valid franchise from the town, nor to the town, when providing any such
services. (Ord. 02-4, 2-4-2002)
2-3C-3: DUE DATE; DISPOSITION OF FUNDS:
   The tax levied under section
2-3C-1 of this article shall be levied for a term of not less than one year and
shall be payable monthly and placed in the general revenue fund of the town.
(Ord. 02-4, 2-4-2002)
2-3C-4: FAILURE TO PAY TAX:
   If any person, firm, or corporation fails or refuses to pay such tax when
levied, an action may be maintained against such person, firm or corporation
for the amount of the tax, and all expenses of collecting same, including
reasonable attorney fees. (Ord. 02-4, 2-4-2002; amd. 2004 Code)
2-3C-5: TAX CONSTITUTES A LIEN:
   The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all the assets
located within the town of any person, firm or corporation engaged in the
business of selling power, light, heat, gas, electricity or water within the
town limits. (Ord. 02-4, 2-4-2002)
2-3C-6: NONFRANCHISED GAS SUPPLIERS:
   Any persons, firms, associations, or corporations engaged in the business of
furnishing gas within the town limits, not operating under a valid franchise
from the town, and upon whom the tax provided under section
2-3C-1 of this article is imposed, is hereby granted a revocable permit by the
town for so long as this article remains in effect and the taxes are paid in
accordance with the terms of this article to acquire, construct, erect,
install, extend, repair, remove, relocate, replace, operate and maintain a
system of works, pipes, pipelines, apparatus, structures and appurtenances in,
across upon and under the streets, alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, parks,
parkways, sidewalks, parkings, driveways, rights of way, utility easements, and
other public ways, places, areas and grounds, all being sometimes referred to
herein as "streets, alleys, avenues, and other public ways, places and
grounds", in the town, now constituted, and as may be added to hereafter, for
the purpose of transporting, distributing and selling gas to the town, its
inhabitants and the public generally for domestic, commercial and industrial
uses, and for any and all other purposes for which gas, during the period of
this revocable permit may be used, together with the right to enter upon the
streets, alleys, avenues and other public ways, places and grounds of the town
for the purpose of constructing, erecting, installing, extending, relocating,
operating, maintaining, removing and repairing said works, pipes, pipelines and
all necessary apparatus, machinery, structures and appurtenances. (Ord. 02-4,
2-4-2002)
TITLE 3
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
***** CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION *****
SECTION:
3-1-1: Commission Created; Appointment And Terms; Vacancies And Removals
3-1-2: Organization And Procedures
3-1-3: Powers And Duties
3-1-4: Serve As Zoning Commission
3-1-5: Compensation
3-1-1: COMMISSION CREATED; APPOINTMENT AND TERMS; VACANCIES AND REMOVALS:
   A town planning commission is hereby created for the town. The planning
commission shall consist of five (5) appointive members, all of whom shall be
citizens and residents of the town, and the mayor and town engineer as ex
officio members. The five (5) appointive members shall be nominated by the
mayor and appointed by the board of trustees, and shall serve for terms of
three (3) years. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms. The board
of trustees may remove members of the town planning commission for cause. (1994
Code § 12-101; amd. 2004 Code)
3-1-2: ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Officers: The planning commission shall elect a chairman, a vice
chairman and a secretary who shall serve for one year terms. The secretary need
not be a member of the commission.
   B.   Meetings: The commission shall determine the time and place of its
regular meetings. The chairman, the mayor, or any three (3) members, may call
special meetings of the commission.
   C.   Employment Of Experts: The commission may employ engineers, attorneys,
clerks, and other help deemed necessary, subject to the approval of the board
of trustees. Their salaries and compensation shall be fixed by the board of
trustees and shall be paid out of the town treasury as other salaries and
compensation are paid. The necessary legal expenses shall be paid out of the
town treasury as other legal expenses of the town government are paid. (1994
Code § 12-102)
3-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   The planning commission shall have all the powers and duties prescribed by
state law and all other powers and duties now or hereafter prescribed by any
other provisions of town or state law. (1994 Code § 12-103)
3-1-4: SERVE AS ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   The planning commission is also appointed as the zoning commission of
the town. The planning commission shall have the powers of a zoning commission
as provided by state law. Whether exercising the powers of a planning
commission or the powers of a zoning commission, it shall be legally one board,
known as the town planning commission.
   B.   Exercising the powers of a zoning commission, the town planning
commission shall recommend the boundaries of the various zones and appropriate
zoning regulations to be enforced therein. It shall have all the powers
conferred upon a zoning commission by state law and all powers which now or in
the future may be granted by applicable state law to such authorities. (1994
Code § 12-104)
3-1-5: COMPENSATION:
   The members of the planning commission shall serve without compensation.
(1994 Code § 12-101)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
***** CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS *****
SECTION:
4-1-1: Applications
4-1-2: Persons Subject To License
4-1-3: Forms
4-1-4: Signatures
4-1-5: Inspections Or Investigations
4-1-6: Term Of License
4-1-7: Building And Premises
4-1-8: Change Of Location
4-1-9: Nuisances
4-1-10: Posting Of License
4-1-11: Revocation Of License Or Permit; Hearing
4-1-12: Appeal Procedure
4-1-1: APPLICATIONS:
   Applications for all licenses and permits required by this code shall be
made in writing to the town clerk-treasurer, unless otherwise specifically
provided by law. Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the
permit or license desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered
and the fee to be paid; and each application shall contain such additional
information as may be required by the issuing official. (2004 Code)
4-1-2: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
   Whenever in this code a license is required for the maintenance, operation
or conduct of any business or establishment or for doing business or engaging
in any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to
the requirement if, by himself or through an agent, employee or partner, he
holds himself forth as being engaged in the business or occupation; or solicits
patronage therefor, actively or passively; or performs or attempts to perform
any part of such business or occupation in the town. (2004 Code)
4-1-3: FORMS:
   Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be
prepared and kept on file by the town clerk-treasurer. (2004 Code)
4-1-4: SIGNATURES:
   Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of the mayor and the
town clerk-treasurer in the absence of any provision to the contrary. (2004
Code)
4-1-5: INSPECTIONS OR INVESTIGATIONS:
   Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where laws of the
town necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of such
permit or license, the town clerk-treasurer shall refer such application to the
proper officer for making such investigation within forty eight (48) hours of
the time of such receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the
investigation or inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or
otherwise, within ten (10) days after receiving the application or a copy
thereof. (2004 Code)
4-1-6: TERM OF LICENSE:
   All annual licenses shall terminate on June 30, where no provision to the
contrary is made. (2004 Code)
4-1-7: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no permit
shall be issued for any thing or act if the premises and building to be used
for the purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the town. (2004
Code)
4-1-8: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
   In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any
licensed business or occupation or of any permitted act may be changed,
provided ten (10) days' notice thereof is given to the town clerk-treasurer;
and further provided, the building requirements of this code are complied with.
(2004 Code)
4-1-9: NUISANCES 1 :
   No business, licensed or not, shall be conducted or operated as to amount to
a nuisance in fact. (2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 See also subsection
  5-2-3A16 of this code.
4-1-10: POSTING OF LICENSE:
   It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
town to keep his license posted at all times in a prominent place on the
premises used for such business. (2004 Code)
4-1-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT; HEARING:
   Any license or permit, for a limited time, may be revoked by the mayor and
town board of trustees during the life of such license or permit for the
violation by the licensee or permittee of any provision relating to the license
or permit, the subject of the license or permit, or the premises occupied; such
revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed. The mayor and town board of
trustees shall be authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the
closing of the premises, and the suspension of any business license or permit
for a period not to exceed fifteen (15) days.
   A.   Hearing: Within ten (10) days after the town officials have so acted,
the mayor shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not
the license or permit should be revoked.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of hearing for revocation of a license or
permit shall be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the
complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be sent to the
licensee or permittee by certified mail at his last known address or personally
served at least five (5) days prior to the date of the hearing.
   C.   Hearing Procedures: At the hearing, the licensee or permittee shall be
permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross examine
witnesses. The mayor shall preside and shall render the decision and
recommendation.
   D.   Causes For Revocation: Business licenses and permits issued under the
ordinances of the town, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the mayor
and board of trustees after notice and hearing as provided in subsections B and
C of this section for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit;
      2.   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of ordinance provisions
or state law relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the
license or permit, or the premises occupied;
      3.   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      4.   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owing to the town;
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or investigation or any interference
with a duly authorized town officer or employee while in the performance of his
duties in making such inspections, as provided in this code. (2004 Code)
4-1-12: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the town to
issue a license or permit or by the revocation of a license or permit shall
have the right to appeal the town's decision to the town board of trustees.
Such appeal shall be requested by submitting a written request to the mayor
within five (5) days of the action of the town which is appealed.
   B.   Town Board Of Trustees Consideration: The town board of trustees shall
consider the appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting, at which time, the
applicant shall be entitled to present his appeal orally or in writing. The
town board of trustees shall act on the appeal within seven (7) days of the
hearing and shall either uphold the action of the town or shall direct the
issuance of a license or permit which the town has denied or the reissuance of
a license or permit which the town has revoked. (2004 Code)
***** CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES *****
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Occupation Taxes
4-2-3: Licensing Requirements
4-2-4: Certificates Of Compliance
4-2-5: Location Of Establishments
4-2-6: Separated Premises Required
4-2-7: Days And Hours Of Sales And Deliveries
4-2-8: Conditions Of Sales And Conduct Of Business
4-2-9: Prohibited Purchases And Consumption
4-2-10: Persons Under Twenty One
4-2-11: Transporting Alcoholic Beverages
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
   Definitions of terms used in this chapter shall be in conformity with those
provided in 37 Oklahoma Statutes section 506, and those state law definitions
are incorporated herein by reference. As used herein, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
   ABLE COMMISSION: The alcoholic beverage laws enforcement commission of the
state.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Alcohol, spirits, beer and wine as those terms are
defined in 37 Oklahoma Statutes section 506, and also includes every liquid or
solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable
of being consumed as a beverage by human beings, but does not include "low
point beer" as that term is defined in section
4-3-1 of this title.
   LICENSEE: Any person holding a license under the Oklahoma alcoholic beverage
control act 1 , and any agent, servant, or employee of such licensee while in
the performance of any act or duty in connection with the licensed business or
on the licensed premises. (1994 Code § 3-101; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 37 OS § 502 et seq.
4-2-2: OCCUPATION TAXES:
   A.   Taxes Levied:
      1.   There is hereby levied and assessed an annual occupation tax on
every business or occupation relating to alcoholic beverages as specifically
enumerated in section
2-2-3 of this code and pursuant to the provisions of 37 Oklahoma Statutes
section 554.1. The occupation tax shall cover only the person paying the tax
and no other, and shall not be refundable. (1994 Code § 3-102; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   The occupation tax for a class B wholesaler shall be reduced by
seventy five percent (75%) if the class B wholesaler is also the holder of a
license from the state to wholesale any low point beer as provided in 37
Oklahoma Statutes section 518. (1994 Code § 3-101; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Payment Of Tax:
      1.   Payment In Advance: The occupation tax levied herein shall be paid
in advance to the town clerk-treasurer.
      2.   Issuance Of Receipt; Records Kept: Upon payment of the occupation
tax, the town clerk-treasurer shall issue a receipt, signed by the clerk-
treasurer, to the licensee paying such occupation tax. The town clerk-treasurer
shall also record the name of the licensee and the address where the licensee
engages in his occupation. Such record shall be duly filed and kept in the
permanent files of the town for at least five (5) years. Thereafter, upon
resolution by the board of trustees, it may be destroyed.
      3.   Receipt Posted: Any licensee shall post his tax receipt in a
conspicuous place on the premises wherein he carries on his occupation.
      4.   Proration Of Tax: The tax levied shall be prorated on a monthly
basis for the year in which an occupation begins operation.
      5.   Failure To Pay Tax: All sums due from any person by reason of
occupation taxes imposed by this chapter and all penalties accruing from such
person by reason of failure to pay such tax shall be recoverable by suit of the
town, brought against such person in any court of competent jurisdiction. In
any suit, in addition to the tax and penalties, the plaintiff shall recover
interest, at the rate of eighteen percent (18%) per annum, upon all sums due by
way of tax and penalty from the date of accrual thereof, and all costs of
collection, judicial or otherwise, including reasonable attorney fees, all to
be determined by the court. Prosecution for an offense against the town,
arising out of the failure to pay a tax levied by this chapter, regardless of
the outcome thereof or its continued pendency, shall not constitute a defense
or bar in any manner to the collection of the tax and penalties, if any are
due, as herein provided.
   C.   Annual Report To State: The town clerk-treasurer shall make and
transmit to the ABLE commission an annual report showing the number and classes
of licenses subject to the tax and the amount of money received therefrom.
(1994 Code § 3-102; amd. 2004 Code)
4-2-3: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   State And Town Licenses Required: No person shall own, operate or
maintain a retail package store or mixed beverage establishment, or
manufacture, distribute or sell any beer, spirits, wine or other alcoholic
beverage, without first obtaining valid licenses issued by the state and the
town. (1994 Code § 3-105; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Application For License: Every person desiring to obtain a license as
provided for herein shall make application to the town clerk-treasurer on forms
to be provided, setting forth the location of the business and the names of all
persons interested in the business, together with their addresses; if a
corporation, the application shall include the names of the president and
managing officer.
   C.   Conditions Of Issuance:
      1.   No licensee shall be issued a license without satisfactory showing
that the applicant has:
         a.   Satisfied the conditions of this chapter;
         b.   Obtained all applicable state and county permits or licenses; and
         c.   Paid the tax as required herein. (1994 Code § 3-103)
      2.   No license shall be issued or valid, unless the licensee meets the
requirements of the town's zoning ordinances and regulations, when implemented.
(1994 Code § 3-103; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   Expiration Of License: The license shall expire on June 30 annually.
(1994 Code § 3-102; amd. 2004 Code)
4-2-4: CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Application For Certificates: Every applicant for a certificate of
compliance with the fire, health and safety codes of the town required by 37
Oklahoma Statutes shall apply at the office of the town clerk-treasurer by:
      1.   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office; and
      2.   Paying, at the time of filing 1 , a verification and certification
fee in the amount as set by the board of trustees.
   B.   Investigation: Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of
compliance, the town clerk-treasurer shall cause an investigation to be made to
determine whether the premises proposed for licensed operations comply with the
provisions of any health, fire, building or other safety codes applicable to
it.
   C.   Issuance Of Certificates To ABLE Commission: Upon finding that the
premises of an applicant for a certificate is in compliance with all applicable
fire, safety and health codes, a certificate of compliance shall be issued to
the ABLE commission.
   D.   Signatures Required: The above certificates of compliance shall be
signed by the town clerk-treasurer or the mayor. (1994 Code § 3-104; amd. 2004
Code)
 
Notes
1 See section
  2-2-3 of this code.
4-2-5: LOCATION OF ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   No person shall own, operate, maintain or have any interest in any
retail package store which is located at a place in the town which is forbidden
as a location for such store by state laws or town ordinances. (1994 Code § 3-
113)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any mixed beverage establishment, beer and
wine establishment, or bottle club which has been licensed by the alcoholic
beverage laws enforcement commission and which has as its main purpose the
selling or serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, or
retail package store, to be located within three hundred feet (300') of any
public or private school or church property primarily and regularly used for
worship services and religious activities. The distance indicated in this
subsection shall be measured from the nearest property line of such public or
private school or church to the nearest perimeter wall of the premises of any
such mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment, bottle club, or
retail package store which has been licensed to sell alcoholic beverages. The
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to mixed beverage establishments,
beer and wine establishments, or bottle clubs, which have been licensed to sell
alcoholic beverages for on premises consumption or retail package stores prior
to November 1, 2000; provided, if at the time of application for license
renewal the licensed location has not been in actual operation for a continuous
period of more than sixty (60) days, the license shall not be renewed. If any
school or church shall be established within three hundred feet (300') of any
retail package store, mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine
establishment, or bottle club subject to the provisions of this subsection
after such retail package store, mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine
establishment, or bottle club has been licensed, the provisions of this
subsection shall not be a deterrent to the renewal of such license if there has
not been a lapse of more than sixty (60) days. When any mixed beverage
establishment, beer and wine establishment, or bottle club subject to the
provisions of this subsection which has a license to sell alcoholic beverages
for on premises consumption or retail package store changes ownership or the
operator thereof is changed and such change of ownership results in the same
type of business being conducted on the premises, the provisions of this
subsection shall not be a deterrent to the issuance of a license to the new
owner or operator if he or she is otherwise qualified. (2004 Code)
4-2-6: SEPARATED PREMISES REQUIRED:
   No person shall maintain, operate, or assist in any manner in the
maintenance or operation of a package store upon premises which are not
separated from adjoining premises on which any other goods, wares or
merchandise are sold or services are rendered by nontransparent walls, broken
only, if at all, by a passage to which the public is not admitted. No person
shall take any alcoholic beverage through such passageway for the purpose of
selling or reselling such beverage, or for the purpose of delivery thereof in
connection with a sale of such beverage. (1994 Code § 3-115)
4-2-7: DAYS AND HOURS OF SALES AND DELIVERIES:
   A.   No licensee shall engage in retail sale of alcoholic beverages on such
days and times as prohibited by state law. (1994 Code § 3-116)
   B.   No package store licensee shall sell or keep a package store premises
open for the purpose of selling any alcoholic beverages at any hour other than
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.,
Monday through Saturday; provided, that no such sales shall be made, or package
store premises be allowed to remain open for the purpose of making such sales,
on the day of any general, primary, runoff primary or special election while
the polls are open, whether on a national, state, county or town election, or
on New Year's Day, Memorial Day, July 4, Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving
Day or Christmas Day.
   C.   No alcoholic beverages may be sold, dispensed, served or consumed on
the premises of a mixed drink beverage licensee or bottle club between the
hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. (1994 Code § 3-
114; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   No wholesale dealer in alcoholic beverages shall sell or deliver to any
package store any amount of spirits or wines on Saturday or Sunday of any week
or on New Year's Day, Memorial Day, July 4, Labor Day, Veterans Day,
Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day. (1994 Code § 3-116; amd. 2004 Code)
4-2-8: CONDITIONS OF SALES AND CONDUCT OF BUSINESS:
   No licensee shall:
   A.   Alcohol As Prizes: Give any alcoholic beverage as a prize, premium or
consideration for any lottery, game of chance or skill or any type of
competition; or
   B.   Happy Hours: Advertise or offer "happy hours" or any other means or
inducements to stimulate the consumption of alcoholic beverages including to:
      1.   Deliver more than two (2) drinks to one person at one time;
      2.   Sell or offer to sell to any person or group of persons any drinks
at a price less than the price regularly charged for such drinks during the
same calendar week, except at private functions not open to the public;
      3.   Sell or offer to sell to any person an unlimited number of drinks
during any set period of time for a fixed price, except at private functions
not open to the public;
      4.   Sell or offer to sell drinks to any person or group of persons on
any one day at prices less than those charged the general public on that day,
except at private functions not open to the public;
      5.   Increase the volume of alcoholic beverages contained in a drink
without increasing proportionately the price regularly charged for such drink
during the same calendar week; or
      6.   Encourage or permit, on the licensed premises, any game or contest
which involves drinking or the awarding of drinks as prizes. (1994 Code § 3-
108)
   C.   Obscene, Lewd Conduct Or Entertainment:
      1.   Allow any person on the premises where low point beer 1  or
alcoholic beverages are sold or dispensed for consumption on the premises of
the licensee where such person is unclothed or in such attire, costume or
clothing as to expose to view any portion of the female breast below the top of
the areola or any portion of the pubic area, buttocks or genitalia; (1994 Code
§ 3-108; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   Permit any person to perform acts of, or acts which simulate sexual
acts;
      3.   Permit any person to use artificial devices or inanimate objects to
depict any lewd activities;
      4.   Permit the showing of films, still pictures, electronic
reproductions or other visual reproductions depicting any of the prohibited
acts in this subsection; (1994 Code § 3-108)
      5.   Permit the performance by any person of acts, or simulated acts, of
sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation,
flagellation, or any sexual acts which are otherwise prohibited by law; or
      6.   Permit the actual intentional touching or caressing or fondling by
any person of the breasts, anus or genitals. (2004 Code)
   D.   Soliciting Drinks: Permit any drink solicitation, or request from a
patron to purchase any low point beer or intoxicating alcoholic beverage for
consumption on the "premises" of the licensee, as that term is defined in
Oklahoma statutes. (1994 Code § 3-108; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 See chapter 3 of this title.
4-2-9: PROHIBITED PURCHASES AND CONSUMPTION:
   No person shall:
   A.   Purchase any alcoholic beverage at retail or wholesale from any person
other than a dealer licensed by the ABLE commission; (1994 Code § 3-108)
   B.   Drink intoxicating liquor in any public place unless authorized by the
alcoholic control beverage act;
   C.   Be intoxicated in a public place within the town 1 ; (1994 Code §§ 3-
108, 3-109)
   D.   Open a container of intoxicating beverages or consume alcoholic
beverages on the premises of a retail package store; or
   E.   Possess more than one liter of any alcoholic beverage, unless the state
tax has been paid thereon, and except as may be otherwise provided by law.
(1994 Code § 3-108; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 See also section
  6-5D-1 of this code.
4-2-10: PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE:
   A.   Sales To: No person shall sell, deliver, furnish or give any alcoholic
beverage to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years; except, that
this subsection shall not apply to a parent or guardian as regards his child or
children.
   B.   Presence On Premises:
      1.   No licensee shall permit any person under twenty one (21) years of
age to enter, remain within or be about the premises of a retail package store
or mixed beverage establishment.
      2.   No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall enter, remain
within or be about the premises of a retail package store or mixed beverage
establishment. (1994 Code § 3-106)
   C.   Misrepresentation Of Age 1 : No person shall misrepresent his age
either orally or in writing or by presenting false or altered documentation of
age for the purpose of inducing any person to sell him alcoholic beverages.
(1994 Code § 3-110)
   D.   Employment: No licensee shall employ any person under the age of twenty
one (21) in the selling or handling of alcoholic beverages. Provided, that a
mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer, special event or bottle club licensee
may employ servers who are at least eighteen (18) years of age, except persons
under twenty one (21) years of age may not serve in designated bar or lounge
areas, and a mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer, special event or bottle
club licensee may employ or hire musical bands who have musicians who are under
twenty one (21) years of age if each such musician is either accompanied by a
parent or legal guardian or has on their person, to be made available for
inspection upon demand by any ABLE commission officer or law enforcement
officer, a written, notarized affidavit from the parent or legal guardian
giving the underage musician permission to perform in designated bar or lounge
areas. (2004 Code)
   E.   Possession: No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall be in
possession of any alcoholic beverage while such person is upon any public
street, road, highway or in any public place. (1994 Code § 3-112)
 
Notes
1 See also section
  6-5C-2 of this code.
4-2-11: TRANSPORTING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   No person shall knowingly transport alcoholic beverages in any vehicle upon
any public highway, street or alley unless in the original container which is
unopened, the seal unbroken and the original cap or cork shall not have been
removed. This section shall not apply if the opened container is in the rear
trunk or compartment, or the spare tire compartment in a vehicle commonly known
as a station wagon or panel truck, or in any outside compartment which is
inaccessible to the driver or any passenger while the vehicle is in motion.
(1994 Code § 3-107; amd. 2004 Code)
***** CHAPTER 3
LOW POINT BEER *****
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: License And Permit Required
4-3-3: Application For License
4-3-4: License Fees
4-3-5: Issuance Of License; Nontransferability
4-3-6: Location Restrictions
4-3-7: Days And Hours Of Sales
4-3-8: Underage Persons
4-3-9: Transporting Low Point Beer
4-3-10: Inspections
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
   As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
   LOW POINT BEER: All beverages containing more than one-half of one percent
(0.5%) alcohol by volume, and not more than three and two-tenths percent (3.2%)
alcohol by weight.
   MINOR: A person who, in accordance with state law, has not yet attained the
age at which the consumption of low point beer is permitted.
   RETAIL DEALER: Means and includes any and all persons who sell, distribute
or dispense any low point beer at retail to the public for consumption or use,
whether consumed on the premises or not. (1994 Code § 3-201; amd. 2004 Code)
4-3-2: LICENSE AND PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   State Permit: No person shall engage in the business of selling,
offering for sale or distributing any low point beer, at retail, for
consumption or use, without first having obtained a state permit to do so, and
in cases where such beverages are consumed on the premises, a permit, as
provided by the statutes of the state. (1994 Code § 3-202; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Town License: No person shall sell, distribute or dispense any low
point beer, at retail, to the public without first having obtained a license to
do so from the town, and making payment in advance to the town clerk-treasurer
in the amount as provided herein. (1994 Code § 3-203; amd. 2004 Code)
4-3-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   An applicant for a retail dealer's license or renewal of such license shall
deposit the required fee with the town clerk-treasurer and submit an
application on the form provided containing the information required by the
town. (1994 Code § 3-204)
4-3-4: LICENSE FEES:
   The annual fee for a license under this chapter for retail dealers selling
low point beer for consumption on or off the premises and for retail dealers
selling low point beer in original packages and not for consumption on the
premises shall be as set forth in section
2-2-3 of this code. (1994 Code § 3-203; amd. 2004 Code)
4-3-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; NONTRANSFERABILITY:
   Licenses required by this chapter shall be issued by the town clerk-
treasurer upon payment of the required fee and compliance by the applicant with
all applicable ordinances of the town, and upon a satisfactory showing that the
applicant has obtained such state and county permits as are required by law. No
license issued hereunder is transferable. (1994 Code § 3-203)
4-3-6: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   No person shall own, operate, maintain or have any interest in any retail
establishment which is located at a place in the town which is forbidden as a
location for such establishment by state laws or town ordinances. (1994 Code §
3-214; amd. 2004 Code)
4-3-7: DAYS AND HOURS OF SALES:
   A.   No retail dealer licensed to sell low point beer shall sell such
beverages for consumption on the premises between the hours of two o'clock (2:
00) A.M. Sunday morning and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following Monday
morning or between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. on any other day.
   B.   No retail dealer of any business selling "low point beer", as that term
is defined in this chapter, for consumption on the premises, nor any operator,
agent, or employee of the retail dealer, shall permit any person, who has in
his possession an open container and having as its contents low point beer, to
remain in the premises between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. Monday through Saturday, or on Sunday between two o'clock
(2:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following Monday. No person,
having in his possession an open container and having as its contents low point
beer, shall remain in the premises between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. Monday through Saturday, or on Sunday between the
hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following
Monday. For the purpose of this section, an "open container" shall mean any
receptacle containing low point beer or alcoholic beverage, to include the
original container of the beverage where the original seal has been broken or
opened. (1994 Code § 3-208; amd. 2004 Code)
4-3-8: UNDERAGE PERSONS:
   A.   Sales To: It is unlawful for any person who holds a license to sell and
dispense low point beer, or any agent, servant or employee of the license
holder, to sell, barter or give to any minor any low point beer. This
subsection shall not apply to a parent as regards his own child or children.
(1994 Code § 3-206; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Presence On Premises:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person who holds a license to sell and
dispense low point beer for consumption on the premises, or any agent, servant,
or employee of the license holder, to permit any minor to be admitted to or
remain in a separate or enclosed bar area of the licensed premises which has as
its main purpose the selling or serving of low point beer for consumption on
the premises, unless the minor's parent or legal guardian is present. The
provisions of this subsection shall not prohibit minors from being admitted to
an area which has as its main purpose some objective other than the sale or
serving of low point beer, in which the sale or serving of low point beer is
incidental to the main purpose, as long as minors are not sold or served low
point beer; however, the incidental service of food in the bar area shall not
except a licensee, agent, servant, or employee from the provisions of this
subsection.
      2.   If the premises of a holder of a license to sell low point beer
contains a separate or enclosed bar area which has as its main purpose the sale
or serving of low point beer for consumption on the premises, no minor shall
enter, attempt to enter, or remain in the area. The provisions of this
subsection shall not prohibit minors from entering or remaining in an area
which has as its main purpose some objective other than the sale or serving of
low point beer, in which sales or serving of low point beer is incidental to
the main purpose, if the minors are not sold or served or do not consume low
point beer anywhere on the premises; however, the incidental service of food in
the bar area shall not exempt minors from the provisions of this subsection. A
showing by competent testimony that a minor was found upon premises of a retail
dealer shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this subsection B2.
(1994 Code § 3-205; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Misrepresentation Of Age 1 : No person shall misrepresent his age
either orally or in writing or by presenting false or altered documentation of
age for the purpose of inducing any person to sell him low point beer. (1994
Code § 3-212; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   Employment:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person under eighteen (18) years of age to be
employed or permitted to work, in any capacity whatsoever, in a place where low
point beer is sold or dispensed for consumption on the premises. The provisions
of this subsection D1 shall not apply to any business or establishment where
sales of low point beer do not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the gross
sales of the business or establishment.
      2.   It is unlawful for any minor to be employed or permitted to work, in
any capacity whatsoever, in the separate or enclosed bar area of a place where
the main purpose of the area is the sale or consumption of low point beer. The
provisions of this subsection D2 shall not apply to any area which has as its
main purpose some objective other than the sale or serving of low point beer or
in which sales or serving of low point beer is incidental to the main purpose;
however, the incidental service of food in the bar area shall not exempt a
holder of a license to sell low point beer for consumption on the premises from
the provisions of this subsection D2.
      3.   A parent, as regards the employment of his own child or children, is
excepted from the provisions of this subsection; provided, that such employment
shall in no capacity whatsoever be related to the selling or dispensing of low
point beer. (1994 Code § 3-207; amd. 2004 Code)
   E.   Possession: No minor shall be in possession of any low point beer while
such person is upon any public street, building or place. (1994 Code § 3-210;
amd. 2004 Code)
   F.   Consumption Or Possession:
      1.   No minor shall consume or possess with intent to consume low point
beer in any public place.
      2.   Any person violating the provisions of this subsection shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code, or by appropriate community service not to exceed twenty
(20) hours.
      3.   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply when such persons
are under the direct supervision of their parents or guardians, but in no
instance shall this exception be interpreted to allow such persons to consume
low point beer in any place licensed to dispense low point beer as provided in
37 Oklahoma Statutes section 163.11. (1994 Code § 3-211; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 See also section
  6-5C-2 of this code.
4-3-9: TRANSPORTING LOW POINT BEER:
   No person shall knowingly transport in any moving vehicle upon a public
highway, street or alley within the town any low point beer except in the
original container which shall not have been opened and from which the original
cap or seal shall not have been removed, unless the opened container is in the
rear trunk or rear compartment, which shall include the spare tire compartment
in a station wagon or panel truck, or any outside compartment which is not
accessible to the driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is in
motion. (1994 Code § 3-209; amd. 2004 Code)
4-3-10: INSPECTIONS:
   Town officers may make inspections of all places of business where low point
beer is sold, distributed, or dispensed at retail, for the purpose of enforcing
the laws and for ascertaining whether the operators thereof are complying with
the requirements of the law relating to the handling of low point beer. (1994
Code § 3-213; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT VENDORS 1
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Licenses Required; Exemptions
4-4-3: Applications For Licenses
4-4-4: Investigation Of Applicant; Issuance Or Denial Of License
4-4-5: Bond Requirements
4-4-6: Signed Document For Service Of Process
4-4-7: License Fee And Exemptions
4-4-8: Display Of License
4-4-9: Food Sales
4-4-10: Uninvited Peddling Or Soliciting
4-4-11: Revocation Of License
4-4-12: Provisions Cumulative
4-4-13: Penalty
 
Notes
  See also subsection
1 7-6-4G4 and section
  8-1-2 of this code for prohibited display and sales of merchandise from
  vehicles.
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them herein:
   COMMERCIAL: Soliciting for a business purpose which is intended to be for
profit and is not intended to be charitable, religious, not for profit or
political.
   ITINERANT: Having no regular place of doing business or soliciting in the
town and includes, but is not limited to, making regular delivery or providing
goods over an established route through the town.
   PEDDLER: A person soliciting commercial orders for goods or services which
are to be provided from stocks or goods carried with the peddler or which are
services provided by the peddler at the time the order is made.
   SOLICITING: All activities of peddlers, solicitors and vendors attempting to
obtain business. Such activities may include, but are not limited to,
distribution of handbills or leaflets to the public directly or by placing them
in a mailbox, on a doorknob or otherwise on any property; coming personally
onto any property for the purposes defined herein; calling the occupants of any
property by telephone for the purposes herein defined; or calling or inviting
any prospective customers to purchase or obtain merchandise, product or
service.
   SOLICITOR: A person soliciting commercial orders for goods or services which
are to be provided or shipped to the consumer at a later date.
   VENDOR: Any person engaged in a business or occupation selling or offering
to sell any merchandise, product or service, and includes, but is not limited
to, peddlers and solicitors. (1994 Code § 9-201)
4-4-2: LICENSES REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Individual License: Any itinerant vendor, solicitor or peddler shall
obtain a license from the town prior to any soliciting in the town, unless
exempted herein, to cover each person who will be soliciting and each location
or separate place of business.
   B.   Blanket License For Itinerant Vendors: Owners or lessees of buildings
in which itinerant vendors operate or locate must obtain a blanket license
covering all itinerant vendors who will be established in the building
controlled by the owner or lessee. Governmental agencies owning public
buildings may arrange a letter of agreement with the town in lieu of a license
if licensing is contrary to the regulations governing the governmental agency.
In such a case, the letter of agreement will provide for the same requirements
as are shown in this chapter and will provide that the town receive half the
rental fee paid by the itinerant vendor until the town's receipts equal the
amount required for a blanket license fee. (1994 Code § 9-202)
   C.   Exemptions From License: The following are exempt from the license
requirements of this chapter:
      1.   Farmers and truck gardeners of lands owned, cultivated or controlled
by them, who offer for sale or sell, or who solicit and sell from house to
house, vegetables, butter, eggs and farm products produced and raised by the
farmers and truck gardeners from such land.
      2.   Needy ex-service persons holding a certificate duly issued by a
district judge having jurisdiction as provided by law. (1994 Code § 9-210)
4-4-3: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES:
   A.   Individual License: Applicants for licenses shall file, during regular
business hours, a written application signed by the applicant, if an
individual; by all partners, if a partnership; and by a qualified corporate
officer, if a corporation, with the clerk-treasurer, showing:
      1.   Name and address of person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the town; the location or address of such person or persons
when engaged in such business; the permanent address or addresses of such
person or persons; the capacity in which such person or persons will act; the
name and address of the person, firm or corporation for whose account the
business will be carried on, if any; and if a corporation, under the laws of
what state the same is incorporated;
      2.   The place or places in the town where it is proposed to carry on the
applicant's business and the length of time during which it is proposed that
the business be conducted; (1994 Code § 9-204; amd. 2004 Code)
      3.   Place or places, other than permanent place of business of the
applicant, within the six (6) months next preceding the date of the
application, where the applicant has conducted a transient business;
      4.   The nature of the goods or products being sold; that is, whether
they are "seconds", rejects, or first line quality, and whether any warranty
applies to the items being sold; if a warranty applies, the period of the
warranty and the name and address of the warrantor and the procedures for
filing for the adjustment or refund shall be specified;
      5.   A statement that the applicant agrees to the requirement to pay all
state and town sales taxes due on all items which are subject to sales taxes
and recognizes that a copy of all applications will be provided to the local
office of the Oklahoma tax commission;
      6.   Current state sales tax permit number;
      7.   Current license or permit, if any, which may be required by state
law or ordinances of the town for the particular activity or business;
      8.   If a motor vehicle is to be used in the business, a description of
the vehicle, together with motor vehicle registration number, and the license
number for the vehicle; and
         a.   Proof of liability insurance required by state law; and
         b.   Proof or verification from the insurance carrier that the town
clerk-treasurer will be provided at least ten (10) days' notice of any
cancellation; and
      9.   Proof of 501(c)(3) tax status, if claiming exemption from the
license fees. (1994 Code § 9-204)
   B.   Blanket License For Itinerant Vendors: Applicants for a blanket
itinerant vendor license shall file, during regular business hours, a written
application signed by the applicant, if an individual; by all partners, if a
partnership; and by a corporation officer, if a corporation, with the clerk-
treasurer showing: (1994 Code § 9-204; amd. 2004 Code)
      1.   Name and address of person or persons having the management or
supervision of the building in which itinerant vendors shall conduct business;
      2.   Name and address of the person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the town; the location or address of such person or persons
when engaged in such business; the permanent address or addresses of such
person or persons; the capacity in which such person or persons will act; the
name and address of the person, firm or corporation for whose account the
business will be carried on, if any; and, if a corporation, under the laws of
what state the same is incorporated and licensed to operate in the state;
      3.   A general description of the products or services that will be sold
by the itinerant vendor;
      4.   A statement that the applicant shall establish the following
controls over itinerant vendors and shall maintain records concerning each
itinerant vendor for one year after the engagement dates involving the
itinerant vendors:
         a.   The applicant shall determine the names and addresses of each
salesperson involved locally for an itinerant vendor and determine the names
and permanent addresses of the parent company, if any, controlling the
itinerant vendor;
         b.   The applicant shall determine the nature of the merchandise or
product to be sold, determine whether it is a "reject" line or seconds,
determine whether there are warranties on the product, and how any complaint is
to be filed for warranty adjustment. The applicant shall require that the
vendor display a sign prominent enough to disclose to all potential customers
that the product consists of "seconds", rejects or irregulars if such is the
case;
         c.   The applicant shall inform each vendor of the requirement to pay
state and town sales taxes and shall forward the name, product involved, and
dates of the vendor's engagement to the local office of the state tax
commission. Further, the applicant will furnish the vendor with one copy of the
state sales tax report form and require him to certify that he will submit a
sales tax report at the conclusion of his engagement in the town;
         d.   The applicant shall post proof of a liability insurance policy in
effect in the amount of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00);
         e.   The applicant shall provide copies of all ordinances,
regulations, tax forms, etc., to each itinerant vendor and provide the town
with a statement signed by the vendor agreeing to comply with same; and
         f.   The applicant shall post a notice with the town thirty (30) days
in advance, listing each itinerant vendor establishing a business. (1994 Code §
9-204)
4-4-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
All applications for licensing shall be immediately referred for investigation
as to the truth thereof, which investigation shall be conducted within ten (10)
business days after the application and fee are deposited with the town. If the
town finds no record of the applicant indicating violations of this code and
that the application is properly made and truthful, a license shall be issued
to the approved applicant upon payment of the fee therefor and the filing of
the required bond. In all matters of denial of the license, the applicant shall
be forthwith advised thereof. The applicant shall be advised that an appeal of
a denied license may be submitted to the town board of trustees 1 . (1994 Code
§ 9-205; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 See section
  4-1-12 of this title.
4-4-5: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   Before any license as provided by this chapter shall be issued, the
applicant shall file a bond running to the town. A person engaging in business
as an itinerant vendor shall file a bond in the sum set forth in the bond
schedule, on file in the office of the town clerk-treasurer, secured by the
applicant as principal and two (2) sureties upon whom service of process may be
made in the state. All such bonds shall be approved by the town attorney and
conditioned that: (1994 Code § 9-206; amd. 2004 Code)
   A.   Applicant shall comply with all of the provisions of the ordinances of
the town and the statutes of the state regulating and concerning the sale of
goods or wares and merchandise; and
   B.   Will pay all judgments rendered against the applicant for any violation
of the ordinances or statutes, or any of them, together with all judgments and
costs that may be recovered against him by any person or persons for damage
growing out of any misrepresentation or deceptive practice by any person
transacting such business with such applicant, whether such misrepresentation
or deception was made or practiced by the owner or by the service, agents or
employees, either at the time of making the sale or through any advertisement
of any character whatsoever, printed or circulated with reference to the goods,
wares and merchandise sold or any part thereof. Any action on the bond may be
brought in the name of the town to the use of the aggrieved person. (1994 Code
§ 9-206)
4-4-6: SIGNED DOCUMENT FOR SERVICE OF PROCESS:
   Before any license for an itinerant vendor, as herein provided, shall be
issued, the applicant shall file with the town an instrument nominating and
appointing the town clerk-treasurer his true and lawful agent, with full power
and authority to acknowledge service of notice or process for and on behalf of
the applicant in respect to any matters connected with or arising out of any
business transaction under the license and the bond given as required by this
chapter, or for the performance of the conditions of the bond or for any breach
thereof. The instrument shall also contain recitals to the effect that the
applicant for the license consents and agrees that service of any notice or
process may be made upon the agent and, when so made, shall be taken and held
to be as valid as if personally served on the person or persons applying for
the license under this chapter, according to the laws of the state of Oklahoma
or any other state and waiving all claims or right of error by reason of such
acknowledgement of service or manner of service. Immediately upon service of
process upon the town clerk-treasurer, as herein provided, the town clerk-
treasurer shall send to the licensee at his last known address, by certified
mail, a copy of the notice. (1994 Code § 9-207)
4-4-7: LICENSE FEE AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Fee Established By Resolution: The fee for licenses herein required
shall be as set by the town board of trustees by motion or resolution 1 .
   B.   Exemptions:
      1.   Nonprofits: The fees may be waived for educational, charitable, or
religious groups qualifying as 501(c)(3) organizations who make house to house
solicitations. (1994 Code § 9-203)
      2.   Interstate Commerce: Any person who desires to be exempt from the
license fees levied under this chapter due to engaging in interstate commerce
shall provide sufficient data on transactions and proof to the town to
establish the interstate commerce nature of his business and transactions. If
the town refuses to issue an interstate commerce exemption for the license fees
to a commercial business activity, then the applicant is entitled to a hearing
before the town judge. (1994 Code § 9-210)
 
Notes
1 See section
  2-2-3 of this code.
4-4-8: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
   At all times, there shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon each
licensee if an individual, vehicle or booth used by a licensee, or building or
premises, as appropriate for blanket licenses, a badge, tag or card issued by
the town as proof of issuance of a license. The card, tag or badge shall state
the name of the licensee and the date of expiration of the license. Blanket
licenses shall be displayed and readily available for inspection by the town.
(1994 Code § 9-209)
4-4-9: FOOD SALES:
   All applicants for license to sell foods and merchandise for human or animal
consumption shall have their application for license approved in accordance
with the applicable state food establishment requirements before the licenses
are issued. The sale of foods requires an individual license not covered by
blanket licenses. (1994 Code § 9-208)
4-4-10: UNINVITED PEDDLING OR SOLICITING:
   The practice of going in and upon private residences in the town by
solicitors, peddlers, and itinerant vendors of merchandise, not having been
requested or invited to do so by the owner or occupant of the private
residence, for the purpose of soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares
and merchandise, or for the purpose of disposing of or peddling or hawking the
same, is hereby declared to be a nuisance and punishable as such nuisance as a
misdemeanor. Each uninvited visitation of private residences in the town for
the purpose of soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise
or for the purpose of disposing of or hawking the same shall be deemed a
separate offense. (2004 Code)
4-4-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued by the town may be revoked by the town board of trustees,
after adequate opportunity for hearing 1 , for any of the following reasons:
   A.   The licensee, his agents or employees, have created or is creating a
public nuisance;
   B.   The licensee, his agents or employees, have violated any provision of
this code related to the license or business or other violation of this code or
applicable law. (1994 Code § 9-211)
 
Notes
1 See section
  4-1-11 of this title.
4-4-12: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
   The requirements of this chapter are cumulative to any provisions of state
law or town ordinances regulating or governing any of the activities licensed
herein. In the case of any conflict between the provisions of this chapter and
those of any other town ordinance or state law, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply. (1994 Code § 9-211)
4-4-13: PENALTY:
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1994 Code § 9-212)
TITLE 5
HEALTH AND SANITATION
***** CHAPTER 1
GENERAL HEALTH AND SANITATION PROVISIONS *****
SECTION:
5-1-1: Littering Prohibited
5-1-2: Obstructing Health Or Enforcement Officer Prohibited
5-1-1: LITTERING PROHIBITED 1 :
   No person shall throw, place, leave, drop, put or otherwise abandon litter
upon any public property, private property or roadway except as otherwise
specifically permitted in this code. "Litter" means trash, refuse, rubbish and
all like material. (1994 Code § 8-118)
 
Notes
1 See also section
  6-5A-9 of this code.
5-1-2: OBSTRUCTING HEALTH OR ENFORCEMENT OFFICER PROHIBITED:
   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully obstruct or interfere with any
health officer or other code enforcement officer charged with the enforcement
of the health or nuisance laws of the town. (1994 Code § 8-117)
***** CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES *****
SECTION:
5-2-1: Powers Of Town
5-2-2: Definitions
5-2-3: Certain Public Nuisances Enumerated
5-2-4: Nuisances Prohibited
5-2-5: Persons Liable
5-2-6: Lapse Of Time; Effect
5-2-7: Remedial Action
5-2-8: Public Nuisance Abatement
5-2-9: Summary Abatement Of Nuisances
5-2-10: Abatement By Suit In District Court
5-2-11: Citizen Rights Not Jeopardized
5-2-12: Procedures Cumulative
5-2-13: Smoking
5-2-13-1: Smoking Prohibited In Certain Enclosed Areas
5-2-13-2: Definitions
5-2-13-3: Exceptions
5-2-13-4: Designated Areas
5-2-13-5: Posting Of Designated Areas
5-2-13-6: Enforcement
5-2-13-7: Emergency
5-2-1: POWERS OF TOWN:
   As provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 16, the town is empowered to
determine what is and what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate
limits and, for the protection of the public health, the public parks and the
public water supply, outside of its corporate limits. Whenever it is practical
to do so, the town has the power summarily to abate any such nuisance after
notice to the owner and an opportunity for him to be heard, if this can be
done. (1994 Code § 8-108)
5-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them herein:
   NUISANCE: Unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to perform a duty, or any
thing or condition which either:
      A.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety
of others;
      B.   Offends decency;
      C.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or render
dangerous for passage, any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or basin, or
any public park, square, street or other public property; or
      D.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property; provided, however, this definition shall not apply to preexisting
agricultural activities.
   PRIVATE NUISANCE: Every nuisance not included in the definition of "public
nuisance" in this section.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE: A nuisance which affects at the same time an entire
community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, or three (3)
or more properties under separate ownership in the vicinity of such nuisance,
although the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals
may be unequal. (1994 Code § 8-101; amd. 2004 Code)
5-2-3: CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
   A.   Nuisances Enumerated: In addition to other public nuisances declared by
other sections of this code or law, the following are hereby declared to be
public nuisances:
      1.   Unwholesome Food Or Drink: The sale or offering for sale of
unwholesome food or drink; or the keeping of a place where such sales or
offerings are made.
      2.   Liquor Violations 1 : The sale, offering for sale or furnishing of
alcoholic beverages and low point beer in violation of the state law or
ordinances of the town; or the keeping of a place where alcoholic beverages and
low point beer are sold, offered for sale, or furnished in violation of the
state law or ordinances of the town.
      3.   Obscene Materials: The exposure, display, sale or distribution of
obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents, or objects;
or the keeping of a place where such are exposed, displayed, sold or
distributed.
      4.   Gambling 2 : The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by
cards, slot machines, punchboards or otherwise.
      5.   Bawdy, Disorderly Houses 3 :
         a.   The keeping of a place where prostitution, illicit sexual
intercourse or other immoral acts are practiced.
         b.   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of state law
or ordinance are practiced or carried on.
      6.   Noisy Conditions 4 : The continued making of loud or unusual noises,
music or sounds, or strong vibrations which annoy persons of ordinary
sensibilities; or the keeping of an animal which makes such noises 5 . (1994
Code § 8-102; amd. 2004 Code)
         a.   Noise Control Upon Braking Or Slowing: The driver of any vehicle,
including, but not limited to, motor carriers, trucks, semitrailers and tractor
trailers, shall not cause their vehicle to brake or slow by any method which
increases the noise emission levels of the engine, including, but not limited
to, the method commonly known as "jake braking and/or engine braking" wherein
engine compression is used to slow the vehicle in lieu of applying the clutch
or brakes. (Ord. 2007-001, 1-2-2007)
      7.   Interfering With Wireless Reception 6 : The operation or use of any
electrical apparatus or machine which materially and unduly interferes with
radio or television reception by others.
      8.   Assemblies Obstructing Traffic: Any use of a street or sidewalk or a
place adjacent thereto which causes crowds of people to gather so as to
obstruct traffic on such street or sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs
traffic thereon, except as may be authorized by law or ordinances.
      9.   Water Flowing 7 , Ice Or Snow Falling Upon Streets: Permitting water
or other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow to fall, from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk where mosquitoes breed or are likely to
breed, or which are so constructed, formed, conditioned, or situated as to
endanger the public safety.
      10.   Stagnant Water Bodies: All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or
containers of water in which mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which
are so constructed, formed, conditioned or situated as to endanger the public
safety.
      11.   Conditions Attracting Pests: Rank weeds or grass, carcasses,
accumulations of manure 8 , refuse or other things which are, or are likely to
be, breeding places for flies, mosquitoes, vermin or disease causing germs, and
the premises on which such exist.
      12.   Garbage Accumulations 9 : Any pond, slop, trash 10 , refuse, cobs,
manure 11 , decayed or decaying vegetable matter left, kept or maintained in
such condition as to endanger the public health.
      13.   Dangerous Structures 12 :
         a.   Any building or structure which is dangerous to the public health
or safety because of damage, decay or other condition.
         b.   Every building or other structure that shall become unsafe and
dangerous from fire, decay or other cause, or shall become hazardous from fire,
by reason of age, decay or construction, location or other cause, or shall be
detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the town or its inhabitants
from any cause.
      14.   Dangerous Premises: Any pit, hole or other thing which is so
constructed, formed, conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety.
      15.   Fire And Explosive Hazards: Any fire or explosion hazard which
endangers the public safety.
      16.   Nuisance Causing Businesses 13 : Any occupation or activity which
endangers the public peace, health, morals, safety or welfare.
      17.   Bagworms: Permitting bagworms to be upon any trees or other plants
within the town.
      18.   Offensive Premises:
         a.   Permitting foul, noxious or offensive odors to escape from
premises or unusual quantities of dust or other deleterious substances to
escape or emanate across the property line upon which the same originates.
         b.   Any unclean, foul, leaking or broken or defective ditch, drain,
gutter, slop, garbage or manure barrel 14 , box or other receptacle in the
town.
      19.   Animal Houses And Noises:
         a.   Any stable or other place where animals are kept that may become
obnoxious or annoying to any resident of the town, by reason of any noise or
noises made by the animal therein 15 , or by reason of lack of sanitation 16 .
         b.   The keeping, in violation of title 6, chapter 4 of this code, of
any dog kennels within the town for the breeding and raising of dogs that shall
become offensive or annoying to the public by reason of the barking and noise
made by the animals therein contained 17 .
         c.   The keeping of any hog pen within the limits of the town in
violation of this code.
      20.   Animal Hides: Any green or unsalted hides of any animal kept in any
exposed or open place within the limits of the town.
      21.   Sewer Systems 18 :
         a.   Any vault, cesspool or sink used to receive human excrement,
slops, garbage, refuse or other filthy substance.
         b.   Every privy or water closet which shall be in an overflowing,
leaking or filthy condition, or in a condition dangerous, injurious or annoying
to the comfort, health and welfare of any resident of the town.
   B.   Enumeration Cumulative: The enumeration in subsection A hereof of
certain public nuisances shall be cumulative and not limit other provisions of
law or ordinances defining public or private nuisances either in more general
or more specific terms. (1994 Code § 8-102; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1  See title 4, chapters 2 and 3 and section 6-5D-1 of this code for specific
   liquor offenses.
2  See also section 6-5C-7 of this code.
3  See also section 6-5C-5 of this code.
4  See also section
   6-5B-6 of this code.
5  See also subsection A19 of this section and section
   6-4-6 of this code.
6  See also section
   6-5A-11 of this code.
7  See also section
   8-1-4 of this code.
8  See also subsection A18b of this section and subsection
   6-4-8C of this code.
9  See also section
   9-5-4 of this code.
10 See also section
   5-3-2 of this title.
11 See also subsection
   6-4-8C of this code.
12 See also chapter 4 of this title.
13 See also section
   4-1-9 of this code.
14 See also subsection
   5-2-3A12 of this chapter and subsection 6-4-9C of this code.
15 See also subsection
   5-2-3A6 of this chapter and section 6-4-6 of this code.
16 See also section
   6-4-8 of this code.
17 See also subsection
   5-2-3A6 of this chapter and section 6-4-6 of this code.
18 See title 9, chapter 4 of this code for sewer regulations.
5-2-4: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
   No person shall create or maintain a nuisance within the town or permit a
nuisance to remain on premises under his control within the town. (1994 Code §
8-103)
5-2-5: PERSONS LIABLE:
   Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing
nuisance upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is
liable therefor in the same manner as the person who first created it. (1994
Code § 8-104)
5-2-6: LAPSE OF TIME; EFFECT:
   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right. (1994 Code § 8-105)
5-2-7: REMEDIAL ACTION:
   A.   Public Nuisances: The remedies against a public nuisance are:
      1.   Prosecution on complaint before the municipal court;
      2.   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      3.   Civil action; or
      4.   Abatement:
         a.   By the person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section
12; or
         b.   By the town in accordance with law or ordinance. (1994 Code § 8-
106)
   B.   Private Nuisances: The remedies against a private nuisance are:
      1.   Civil action; or
      2.   Abatement:
         a.   By the person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes
sections 14 and 15; or
         b.   By the town in accordance with law or ordinance. (1994 Code § 8-
107)
5-2-8: PUBLIC NUISANCE ABATEMENT:
   A.   Removal Of Nuisance Condition; Authority: Pursuant to authority granted
by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-1011, the town shall have the authority to
order the owner or occupant of any private premises in the town to remove from
such premises, at his own expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness,
condition conducive to the breeding of insects or rodents that might contribute
to the transmission of disease, or any other condition adversely affecting the
public health, within twenty four (24) hours, or within such other time as may
be reasonable.
   B.   Nature And Service Of Order: Such order shall be in writing and may be
served personally on the owner or occupant of the premises, or authorized agent
thereof, by the town or by a police officer, or a copy thereof may be left at
the last usual place of abode of the owner, occupant or agent, if known and
within the state. If the premises are unoccupied and the residence of the
owner, occupant or agent is unknown or is outside the state, the order may be
served by posting a copy thereof on the premises or by publication in at least
one issue of a newspaper having a general circulation in the town.
   C.   Abatement By Town; Costs: If the order is not complied with, the town
may cause the order to be executed and complied with, and the cost thereof
shall be certified, and the cost of removing or abating such nuisance shall be
charged to the owner or occupant, enforceable as a lien or any other method
allowed by law or ordinance. (1994 Code § 8-110)
5-2-9: SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES 1 :
   A.   Dangerous Condition; Immediate Action Required: Some nuisances are of
such nature as to constitute a grave and immediate danger to the peace, health,
safety, morals or welfare of one or more persons or of the public generally. It
is recognized that circumstances may be such as to justify and even to require
the town or other appropriate officer or agency of the town government to take
immediate and proper action summarily to abate such nuisances or to reduce or
suspend the danger until more deliberate action can be taken toward such
abatement.
   B.   Statement Of Nuisance; Recommended Abatement: An officer of the town
may submit a statement as to the existence of a "nuisance" as defined by the
ordinances of the town or law, and a request or recommendation that it be
abated.
   C.   Determination Of Nuisance Existence; Notice And Abatement: The town or
its designee shall determine if a "nuisance" exists as defined by the
ordinances of the town or law. If a nuisance does in fact exist, town personnel
shall direct the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance
by: 1) certified mail; or 2) publication, if the owner cannot be so served or
found, to abate the nuisance within a specified time, if the peace, health,
safety, morals or welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected
would not be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay. If such peace, health,
safety, morals or welfare would be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay,
or if the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance do not
abate it within the specified time, or if the persons responsible authorize the
town to abate the nuisance, the town shall direct the appropriate officer to
abate the nuisance or have it abated, if summary abatement is practical, as
authorized by 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 16. The town shall send a statement
of the cost of such summary abatement to the owner or other persons responsible
for or causing the nuisance, as may be just under the circumstances, if their
names and addresses are known. Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to
the town collectible as other debts may be collected.
   D.   Appeals: The determination of the existence of a nuisance and order to
abate it, as made by the town, may be appealed by the occupant or owner or
person causing the nuisance by filing a request for hearing in writing with the
town within the period of time specified in the notice for abatement of the
nuisance. The town clerk-treasurer shall cause the matter to be placed on the
agenda of the town board of trustees for final determination with appropriate
notice of the hearing provided to the person requesting the appeal. (1994 Code
§ 8-109)
 
Notes
1 See section
  2-2-4 of this code for costs to owner.
5-2-10: ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT:
   In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance, the
town may bring suit in the district court. (1994 Code § 8-114)
5-2-11: CITIZEN RIGHTS NOT JEOPARDIZED:
   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to abridge the rights of
citizens of the town to bring and maintain actions in the proper courts for the
abatement of private nuisances or those specially injurious to them. (1994 Code
§ 8-111)
5-2-12: PROCEDURES CUMULATIVE:
   The procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and by other
provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative one to the other. The town
may elect to follow any such procedure which is applicable in abating any
particular nuisance. (1994 Code § 8-115)
5-2-13: SMOKING:
5-2-13-1: SMOKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN ENCLOSED AREAS:
   A.   Reliable studies have shown that breathing sidestream or secondhand
smoke is a significant health hazard for certain population groups, including
elderly people, individuals with cardiovascular disease, and individuals with
impaired respiratory function, including asthmatics and those with obstructive
airway disease; and
   B.   Health hazards induced by breathing sidestream or secondhand smoke
include lung cancer, respiratory infection, decreased exercise tolerance,
decreased respiratory function, bronchoconstriction, and bronchospasm; and
   C.   Nonsmokers with allergies, respiratory diseases and those who suffer
other ill effects of breathing sidestream or secondhand smoke may experience a
loss of job productivity or may be forced to take periodic sick leave because
of adverse reactions to same; and
   D.   The smoking of tobacco, or any other weed or plant, is a danger to
health.
   Therefore, no person shall smoke or carry any lighted smoking instrument in
a public place or at a public meeting except in permitted smoking areas. (Ord.
2006-001, 4-3-2006)
5-2-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words and phrases used in this section
5-2-13, shall for the purposes of this section
5-2-13, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section, except
where the context otherwise requires:
   EATING ESTABLISHMENT: A place designed for the consumption of food by
humans, including every coffee shop, cafeteria, short order cafe, luncheonette,
sandwich shop, soda fountain and restaurant.
   EDUCATION FACILITY: A building owned, leased or under the control of a
public or private school system, college or university.
   ENCLOSED: Closed in by a roof and walls with appropriate openings for
ingress and egress and is not intended to mean areas commonly described as
public lobbies.
   HEALTH FACILITY: An entity which provides health services including, but not
limited to, hospitals, nursing homes, long term care facilities, kidney disease
treatment center, health maintenance organizations and ambulatory treatment
centers.
   LICENSED PREMISES: Any portion of a building, structure, room or enclosure
located on real estate which is owned, leased, used, controlled or operated by
a licensee authorized by the alcoholic beverage laws enforcement commission to
sell liquor for consumption on the premises.
   MEETING: As defined in the open meeting act, 25 Oklahoma Statutes section
304.
   PUBLIC BODY: As defined in the open meeting act, 25 Oklahoma Statutes
section 304.
   PUBLIC PLACE:
      A.   An enclosed, indoor area owned or operated by a state or local
governmental agency and used by the general public or serving as a place of
work for public employees or a meeting place for a public body, including an
office, educational facility, health facility, auditorium, arena, meeting room
or public conveyance, or
      B.   An enclosed indoor area which is not owned or operated by a state or
local governmental agency which is used by the general public and which is:
         1.   An educational facility;
         2.   A health facility;
         3.   An auditorium;
         4.   An arena;
         5.   A theater;
         6.   A museum;
         7.   An eating establishment;
         8.   Licensed premises;
         9.   A concert hall;
         10.   Any other facility during the period of its use for a
performance or exhibit of the arts.
   SMOKING: The carrying or holding of a lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette, or any
other lighted smoking device.
(Ord. 2006-001, 4-3-2006)
5-2-13-3: EXCEPTIONS:
   This section
5-2-13 shall not apply to:
   A.   A room, hall or building used for a private function if the seating
arrangements are under the control of the sponsor of the function and not under
the control of the state or local governmental agency or the person who owns or
operates the room, hall or building;
   B.   Licensed premises that are part of a bowling alley area;
   C.   A separate or enclosed bar area of a licensed premises which has as its
main purpose the selling or serving of low point beer or intoxicating alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises;
   D.   Service organizations or fraternal beneficiary societies which are
exempt under section 501(c)(8), (10) or (19) of the internal revenue code;
   E.   Eating establishments with a seating capacity of fifty (50) or fewer
persons;
   F.   Smoking areas designated by the proprietor or person in charge of a
public place or public meeting;
   G.   A private, enclosed room or office occupied exclusively by a smoker,
even if the room or enclosed office may be visited by a nonsmoker. (Ord. 2006-
001, 4-3-2006)
5-2-13-4: DESIGNATED AREAS:
   A.   Smoking and nonsmoking areas shall be designated by the person who owns
or operates a "public place", as defined, or the designee of the board of
trustees, of a "public place" as defined in subsections A, B1 and B10 of the
definition of "public place" in section
5-2-13-2 of this chapter, except in a public place in which smoking is
prohibited by law. If a smoking area is designated, existing physical barriers
and ventilation systems shall be used to minimize smoke in both smoking and
adjacent nonsmoking areas.
   B.   In the case of a public place consisting of a single room, the state or
local governmental agency or the person who owns or operates the single room
shall be in compliance with this section
5-2-13 if an area of the room is reserved and posted as a "No Smoking" area.
   C.   The person who owns or operates a public place or the designee of the
board of trustees shall develop and maintain, for public access, a written
policy which describes the criteria for designating smoking and nonsmoking
areas and describes the methods for preventing smoking in nonsmoking areas.
This policy shall be available for inspection by employees, the public and the
board of trustees or their authorized representative.
   D.   In no event shall lobbies, hallways, bathrooms, or other common areas
typically shared by smokers and nonsmokers be designated as smoking areas,
except that lobbies, hallways or other common areas which exceed two thousand
(2,000) square feet in area may have within them designated smoking areas
provided that no more than twenty five percent (25%) of the total area of such
lobby, hallway, or common area is so designated and further providing that such
designated smoking areas are located such that it is not necessary for
nonsmokers to pass through such areas to reach other no smoking areas. (Ord.
2006-001, 4-3-2006)
5-2-13-5: POSTING OF DESIGNATED AREAS:
   To advise persons of the existence of no smoking in public places and the
availability of smoking designated areas, if any, signs shall be posted as
follows:
   A.   In public places where the owner, proprietor or person in charge
prohibits smoking in the entire public place, a sign with lettering no smaller
than one inch (1") using the words "No Smoking" and the international no
smoking symbol shall be conspicuously posted either on all public entrances or
in a position clearly visible on entry into the public place.
   B.   In public places where certain areas are designated as smoking areas
pursuant to this section
5-2-13, the statement "no smoking except in designated areas", shall be
conspicuously posted on all public entrances or in a position clearly visible
on entering into the public place. The designated smoking areas shall be
conspicuously posted with signs identifying the area as a designated smoking
area.
   C.   In public places where smoking is permitted in the entire building or
area, a sign using the words "this area is a smoking area in its entirety"
shall be conspicuously posted either on all public entrances or in a position
clearly visible on entry into the area or building.
   D.   The sign identifying the status of the premises as designated in
subsection A, B, or C of this section shall be on a sign no smaller than eight
inches by ten inches (8" x 10").
   E.   The sign as set out in subsection D of this section shall be posted not
less than five feet (5') nor more than eight feet (8') above floor level and
shall be of sufficient number and location to cause the message on the signs to
be clearly visible, legible and readable. (Ord. 2006-001, 4-3-2006)
5-2-13-6: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   A person commits an offense if he smokes or possesses a burning
tobacco, weed or other plant product, or any lighted or burning pipe, cigar,
cigarette of any kind, or smoking device in a public place designated as
nonsmoking.
   B.   An offense is committed by the person who is responsible for
designating the public place for smoking or nonsmoking status if the person:
      1.   Fails to properly post signs notifying the public of the "smoking"
status of the premises pursuant to section
5-2-13-5, "Posting Of Designated Areas", of this chapter.
      2.   Fails to maintain a written policy pursuant to section
5-2-13-4, "Designated Areas", of this chapter.
      3.   Fails to ask smokers to refrain from smoking upon request of a
client or employee suffering discomfort from the smoke or who has
hypersensitivity to smoke.
   C.   Any person who violates this section
5-2-13 shall be directed to comply, and any person other than a state or local
governmental agency shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of
not less than twenty dollars ($20.00) or more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) for the first offense and two hundred dollars ($200.00) for all
subsequent offenses.
   D.   The Wayne police department and Wayne fire department may issue
citations for any violation of this section
5-2-13.
   E.   Any designee of the McClain County health department, any designee of
the board of trustees, or any adversely affected party may institute an action
in enjoin repeated violations of this section
5-2-13 in any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2006-001, 4-3-2006)
5-2-13-7: EMERGENCY:
   Whereas, it being immediately necessary for the preservation of the peace,
health, and safety of the town of Wayne and the inhabitants thereof, that the
provisions of this section
5-2-13 be put into full force and effect, an emergency is hereby declared to
exist by reason whereof this section
5-2-13 shall take effect and be in full force from and after the date of its
passage, as provided by law. (Ord. 2006-001, 4-3-2006)
***** CHAPTER 3
WEEDS, GRASS AND TRASH *****
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Unlawful Accumulation Or Deposit Of Trash And Weeds
5-3-3: Trees, Shrubbery And Grass On Or Abutting Public Property, Rights Of
Way, And Easements
5-3-4: Reports Of Violations
5-3-5: Abatement Procedures
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
CLEANING: The removal of trash from property.
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: The person so designated by the town board of
trustees.
OWNER: The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the county
treasurer.
TRASH: Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible materials,
rubbish, offal, waste, or matter of any kind or form which is uncared for,
discarded or abandoned.
WEED: A.   Includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak or poison
sumac and all vegetation at any stage of maturity which:
      1.   Exceeds twelve inches (12") in height, except healthy trees, shrubs
or produce for human consumption or grown in a tended and cultivated garden,
unless such trees and shrubbery, by their density or location, constitute a
detriment to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community or a
hazard to traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise
interfere with the mowing of the weeds;
      2.   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
      3.   Harbors rodents or vermin;
      4.   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
      5.   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
      6.   Is dead or diseased.
   B.   The term "weed" does not include tended crops on land used for
agricultural purposes which are planted more than one hundred fifty feet (150')
from a parcel used for other than agricultural use. (1994 Code § 8-201; amd.
2004 Code)
5-3-2: UNLAWFUL ACCUMULATION OR DEPOSIT OF TRASH AND WEEDS 1
:
   A.   It is unlawful for any owner or occupant of any lot, tract or parcel of
land situated wholly or in part within the corporate limits of the town to
allow trash or weeds to grow, stand or accumulate upon such premises. It is the
duty of such owner or occupant to remove or destroy any such trash or weeds.
   B.   No owner or occupant of land or lots shall:
      1.   Knowingly permit the throwing or dumping upon his premises of any
refuse, rubbish or trash; or
      2.   Permit such materials to remain on his premises for more than ten
(10) days after being notified to remove them by the town or the county health
department, whether or not the owner or occupant knew of or permitted such
throwing or depositing. (1994 Code § 8-202)
   C.   No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any private
property or premises shall maintain or keep any refuse, rubbish, trash or
similar material, except dirt, thereon; nor shall such person allow the
accumulation of any such material; nor shall any such person keep or maintain
such premises in a manner causing substantial diminution in the value of other
property in the neighborhood in which the premises are located. No prosecution
may be undertaken under this subsection until such person shall have been given
ten (10) days' notice by the town of the condition and an order to fully abate
the alleged deficiency. (1994 Code § 8-203)
   D.   It is unlawful to place, deposit, or leave any trash, debris, refuse or
garbage on the property of another or on public property, including any public
street, easement, sidewalk, except where such disposal is expressly allowed by
law. (1994 Code § 8-112; amd. 2004 Code)
   E.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to dispose of garbage,
refuse, rubbish or waste into any refuse container, dumpster or other
receptacle for the deposit of same belonging to or leased by another, whether
by rental agreement, lease or agreement with the town or a public or private
trash, garbage or refuse hauling service, without the permission of the owner,
lessee or other person entitled to the possession or use thereof. (1994 Code
§ 10-328)
   F.   In addition to a penalty for violation of this section, the town may
abate as a public nuisance any condition prohibited herein pursuant to this
chapter and any other law or ordinance 2
, all of which shall be cumulative. (1994 Code § 8-202)
 
Notes
  1. See also subsection
1 5-2-3A12 of this title and subsections
  8-1-5B and C and section 9-5-4 of this code.
2 1. See chapter 2 of this title.
5-3-3: TREES, SHRUBBERY AND GRASS ON OR ABUTTING PUBLIC PROPERTY, RIGHTS OF
WAY, AND EASEMENTS:
   A.   The owner of any premises abutting any street, alley, easement, or
public thoroughfare shall trim all trees and shrubbery growing into the such
area and between the sidewalks and/or easements and the part of the premises
adjacent to the sidewalks or any street, alley, easement, or public
thoroughfare, in such manner that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not
obstruct free and convenient passage and travel along the streets, easements,
sidewalks and alleys. When such premises are occupied by an individual or
individuals other than the owner, such occupant(s) shall trim the trees and
shrubbery in the same manner as otherwise required of the owner.
   B.   The owner of any premises abutting any easement, right of way, public
thoroughfare, or alley shall mow and maintain any grass and/or weeds growing
within the easement, right of way, public thoroughfare, or alley up to the
owner's property line so as to prevent the creation of a nuisance, subject to
the provisions of Subsection C of this Section.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or attempt to remove any
tree or shrubbery located within an easement, street, or alley.
Notwithstanding, trees and/or shrubbery may be removed by the owner of property
abutting such easement, street, or alley only with the consent of. or in
concert with, the Town of Wayne. The purpose of this provision is to protect
any utility, water, gas. etc. lines that may exist under the surface of the
alley.
   D.   Other than any grass clippings resulting from normal and reasonable
mowing activities within any easement, right of way, or alley, it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit, throw or sweep into or
upon streets, alleys, parking areas or sidewalks any paper, rubbish, grass,
weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes or other refuse of any kind.
(Ord. 2024-02, 10-7-2024)
5-3-4: REPORTS OF VIOLATIONS:
   Any officer or employee of the town who discovers an accumulation of trash
or the growth of grass and weeds, or both these conditions, upon any premises
within the limits of the town, shall report the condition to the code
enforcement officer if, as a result of the accumulation or growth, the premises
appear to be:
   A.   Detrimental to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and the
community;
   B.   A hazard to traffic; or
   C.   A fire hazard to property. (1994 Code § 8-204; amd. 2004 Code; Ord.
2024-02, 10-7-2024)
5-3-5: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   The town code enforcement officer is authorized to cause property within the
town to be cleaned of trash and weeds, or grass to be cut or mowed, and the
nuisance to be abated in accordance with the following procedure:
   A.   Determination Of Severity Of Nuisance Condition: The town code
enforcement officer may determine whether the accumulation of trash, growth of
weeds or grass, or other nuisances has caused the property to become
detrimental to the health, benefit or welfare of the public and the community
or a hazard to traffic, or creates a fire hazard to the danger of the property.
   B.   Notice To Abate:
      1.   Notice To Owner:
         a.   At least ten (10) days' notice shall be given to the owner of the
property by mail at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the
county treasurer's office before the hearing provided for herein or before
action may be taken. The notice shall order the property owner to clean the
property of trash, or to cut or mow the weeds or grass on the property, as
appropriate, and the notice shall state that unless the work is performed
within ten (10) days of the date of the notice, the work shall be done by the
town, and a notice of lien shall be filed with the county clerk against the
property for the costs due and owing the town. The owner may avoid the penalty
in this code if, within ten (10) days from the receipt of the notice provided
for herein, the owner shall either:
            (1)   Cut, remove or destroy the trash or weeds in accordance with
the notice;
            (2)   Give written consent authorizing the town to abate the trash
or weeds thereby waiving his right to a hearing; or
            (3)   Request in writing to the code enforcement officer a hearing
as hereafter provided, and if within three (3) days after an order of abatement
is rendered at the hearing, the owner abates the trash or weeds.
         b.   At the time of mailing of notice to the property owner, the town
shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall
indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee.
      2.   Posting Or Publication: If the property owner can not be located
within ten (10) days from the date of mailing the same, notice may be given by
posting a copy of the notice on the property or by publication, as provided by
11 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-102, subsection 8, one time not less than ten
(10) days prior to any hearing or action.
      3.   Summary Abatement: If the town anticipates summary abatement of a
nuisance in accordance with the provisions as herein provided, the notice,
whether by mail, posting or publication, shall state: that any accumulations of
trash or excessive weeds or grass growth on the owner's property occurring
within six (6) months after the removal of trash or cutting or mowing of weeds
or grass on the property pursuant to the notice may be summarily abated by the
town; that the costs of such abatement shall be assessed against the owner; and
that a lien shall be imposed on the property to secure such payment, all
without further notice to the property owner. At the time of each summary
abatement, the town clerk-treasurer shall notify the property owner of the
abatement and costs thereof. The notice shall state that the property owner may
request a hearing within ten (10) days after the date of mailing the notice.
Unless otherwise determined at the hearing, the cost of such abatement shall be
determined and collected as provided in this section. However, these summary
abatement procedures shall not apply if the records of the county clerk show
that the property was transferred after the notice was given pursuant to this
section.
   C.   Consent For Abatement: The owner of the property may give his written
consent to the town authorizing the removal of the trash or the mowing of the
weeds or grass. By giving his written consent, the owner waives his right to a
hearing by the town.
   D.   Hearing And Appeals: A hearing may be held by the code enforcement
officer to determine whether the accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds
or grass has caused the property to become detrimental to the health, benefit
or welfare of the public and the community or a hazard to traffic or creates a
fire hazard to the danger of property. The property owner shall have a right of
appeal to the town board of trustees. The appeal shall be taken by filing
written notice of appeal with the town board of trustees within ten (10) days
after the administrative order is rendered.
   E.   Abatement By Town:
      1.   If the code enforcement officer finds the condition of the property
constitutes a detriment or hazard and that the property would be benefited by
the removal of such conditions, the code enforcement officer shall direct the
clearing or cleaning be done by one of the following methods:
         a.   By the town; or
         b.   On a private contract basis, in which case, it shall be awarded
to the lowest and best bidder for a period not to exceed one year.
      2.   The agents of the town are granted the right of entry on the
property for the removal of trash, mowing of weeds or grass, cleaning and
performance of necessary duties as a governmental function of the town.
Immediately following the cleaning or mowing of the property, the town clerk-
treasurer shall file a notice of lien with the county clerk describing the
property and the work performed by the town, and stating that the town claims a
lien on the property for the cleaning and mowing costs, and that such costs are
the personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date of filing
of the notice.
   F.   Costs 1
:
      1.   Determination Of Costs; Issuance Of Bill: After the property has
been cleaned, the code enforcement officer shall determine the actual cost of
such cleaning and any other expenses as may be necessary in connection
therewith, including the cost of the notice and mailing. The town clerk-
treasurer shall forward by mail to the property owner specified in this section
a statement of the actual cost and demanding payment.
      2.   Failure To Pay Costs:
         a.   If payment is not made within thirty (30) days from the date of
the mailing of the statement, the town clerk-treasurer shall forward a
certified statement of the amount of the cost to the county treasurer and the
same shall be levied on the property and collected by the county treasurer as
other taxes authorized by law. The cost and the interest thereon shall be a
lien against the property from the date the cost is certified to the county
treasurer and shall continue until the cost shall be fully paid.
         b.   At any time prior to the collection, as provided herein, the town
may pursue any civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and the interest
thereon. Upon receiving payment, if any, the town clerk-treasurer shall forward
to the county treasurer a notice of such payment and directing discharge of the
lien or part thereof.
   G.   Exemptions From Provisions: The provisions of this section shall not
apply to any property used for agricultural purposes. (1994 Code § 8-205; amd.
2004 Code; Ord. 2024-2, 10-7-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  2-2-4  of this code.
CHAPTER 4
DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS 1
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Report; Hearing
5-4-3: Condemnation; Notice; Removal; Lien
5-4-4: Boarding And Securing Dilapidated Buildings
5-4-5: Cleaning Up Premises After Building Removal
5-4-6: Preservation Review Of Demolition Activities
5-4-7: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  5-2-3A13 of this title.
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
BOARDING AND SECURING AND BOARDED AND SECURED: The closing, boarding, or
locking of any or all exterior openings so as to prevent entry into the
structure.
DILAPIDATED BUILDING:
   A.   A structure which through neglect or injury lacks necessary repairs or
otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin to such an extent that the
structure is a hazard to the health, safety, or welfare of the general public;
   B.   A structure which is unfit for human occupancy due to the lack of
necessary repairs and is considered uninhabitable or is a hazard to the health,
safety, and welfare of the general public;
   C.   A structure which is determined by the town board of trustees or
administrative officer of the town board of trustees to be an unsecured
building more than three (3) times within any twelve (12) month period;
   D.   A structure which has been boarded and secured, as defined in this
section for more than eighteen (18) consecutive months; or
   E.   A structure declared by the town board of trustees to constitute a
public nuisance.
OWNER: The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the county
treasurer.
UNFIT FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY: A structure that due to lack of necessary repairs is
considered uninhabitable and is a hazard to the health, safety, and welfare of
the general public.
UNSECURED BUILDING: Any structure which is not occupied by a legal or equitable
owner thereof or by a lessee of a legal or equitable owner and into which there
are one or more unsecured openings such as broken windows, unlocked windows,
broken doors, unlocked doors, holes in exterior walls, holes in the roof,
broken basement or cellar hatchways, unlocked basement or cellar hatchways, or
other similar unsecured openings which would facilitate an unauthorized entry
into the structure.
(Ord. 5-4-1, 9-13-2011; amd. Ord. 2018-001, - -2018)
5-4-2: REPORT; HEARING:
   A.   Any officer or employee of this town who discovers or receives a report
of a dilapidated building shall report it to the town board of trustees or its
designee.
   B.   Upon receiving the report prescribed by subsection A of this section
or upon receipt of equivalent information from any reliable source,
the code enforcement officer shall request that the town clerk place
upon the agenda of the town board of trustees for hearing and consideration at
any appropriate date of meeting thereof, such as will permit giving the notices
prescribed by statutory law. (Ord. 5-4-1, 9-13-2011)
5-4-3: CONDEMNATION; NOTICE; REMOVAL; LIEN:
   A.   The town board of trustees may cause dilapidated buildings within the
town limits to be torn down and removed in accordance with the following
procedure:
      1.   At least ten (10) days' notice that a building is to be torn down or
removed shall be given to the owner of the property before the town board of
trustees holds a hearing. A copy of the notice shall be posted on the property
to be affected. In addition, a copy of the notice shall be sent by mail to the
property owner at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the
office of the county treasurer. Written notice shall also be mailed to any
mortgage holder as shown by the records in the office of the county clerk to
the last known address of the mortgagee. At the time of mailing of notice to
any property owner or mortgage holder, the town shall obtain a receipt of
mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of
mailing and the name and address of the mailee. However, if neither the
property owner nor the mortgage holder can be located, notice may be given by
posting a copy of the notice on the property or by publication as defined in 11
Oklahoma Statutes section 1-102. The notice may be published once not less than
ten (10) days prior to any hearing or action by the town pursuant to the
provisions of this section.
      2.   A hearing shall be held by the town board of trustees to determine
if the property is dilapidated and has become detrimental to the health,
safety, or welfare of the general public and the community or if the property
creates a fire hazard which is dangerous to other property.
      3.   Pursuant to a finding that the condition of the property constitutes
a detriment or a hazard and that the property would be benefited by the removal
of such conditions, the town board of trustees may cause the dilapidated
building to be torn down and removed. The town board of trustees shall fix
reasonable dates for the commencement and completion of the work. The town
clerk shall immediately file a notice of dilapidation and lien with the county
clerk describing the property, the findings of the town at the hearing, and
stating that the town claims a lien on the property for the destruction and
removal costs and that such costs are the personal obligation of the property
owner from and after the date of filing of the notice. The agents of the town
are granted the right of entry on the property for the performance of the
necessary duties as a governmental function of the town if the work is not
performed by the property owner within dates fixed by the town board of
trustees.
      4.   The town board of trustees shall determine the actual cost of the
dismantling and removal of dilapidated buildings and any other expenses that
may be necessary in conjunction with the dismantling and removal of the
buildings, including the cost of notice and mailing. The town clerk shall
forward a statement of the actual cost attributable to the dismantling and
removal of the buildings and a demand for payment of such costs by mail to the
property owner. In addition, a copy of the statement shall be mailed to any
mortgage holder at the address provided for in subsection A1 of this section.
At the time of mailing of the statement of costs to any property owner or
mortgage holder, the town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal
service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and
address of the mailee. If the town dismantles or removes any dilapidated
buildings, the cost to the property owner shall not exceed the actual cost of
the labor, maintenance, and equipment required for the dismantling and removal
of the dilapidated buildings. If dismantling and removal of the dilapidated
buildings are done on a private contract basis, the contract shall be awarded
to the lowest and best bidder.
      5.   When payment is made to the town for costs incurred, the town clerk
shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to the actual cost of
the dismantling and removal of the buildings is not made within six (6) months
from the date of the mailing of the statement to the owner of such property,
the town clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of the cost to
the county treasurer. Once certified to the county treasurer, payment may only
be made to the county treasurer except as otherwise provided for in this
section. The costs shall be levied on the property and collected by the county
treasurer as are other taxes authorized by law. Until finally paid, the costs
and the interest thereon shall be the personal obligation of the property owner
from and after the date of the notice of dilapidation and lien is filed with
the county clerk. In addition, the cost and the interest thereon shall be a
lien against the property from the date the notice of the lien is filed with
the county clerk. The lien shall be coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes
and all other taxes and special assessments and shall be prior and superior to
all other titles and liens against the property. The lien shall continue until
the cost is fully paid. At the time of collection, the county treasurer shall
collect a fee of five dollars ($5.00) for each parcel of property. The fee
shall be deposited to the credit of the general fund of the county. If the
county treasurer and the town agree that the county treasurer is unable to
collect the assessment, the town may pursue a civil remedy for collection of
the amount owing and interest thereon including an action in personam against
the property owner and an action in rem to foreclose its lien against the
property. A mineral interest, if severed from the surface interest and not
owned by the surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax or judgment lien
created pursuant to this section. Upon receiving payment, the town clerk shall
forward to the county treasurer a notice of such payment and shall direct
discharge of the lien.
   B.   The board of trustees hereby designates the code enforcement officer to
perform the duties of the board of trustees under this section. The property
owner shall have the right of appeal to the town board of trustees from any
order of the code enforcement officer. Such appeal shall be taken by filing
written notice of appeal with the town clerk within ten (10) days after the
administrative order is rendered. (Ord. 5-4-1, 9-13-2011)
5-4-4: BOARDING AND SECURING DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS:
   A.   Authorization To Board And Secure: After a building has been declared
dilapidated, as provided in section 5-4-3 of this chapter, and before the
commencement of the tearing down and removal of a dilapidated building, the
town board of trustees may authorize that such a building be boarded and
secured. However, if the dilapidated building is vacant and unfit for human
occupancy, the town board of trustees may authorize the structure to be
demolished pursuant to section 5-4-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Cleaning Of Trash And Weeds: The town board of trustees may cause the
premises on which an unsecured building is located to be cleaned of trash and
weeds in accordance with the provisions of 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 22-111.
   C.   Procedure For Boarding And Securing: The town board of trustees may
cause an unsecured building to be boarded and secured in accordance with the
following procedures:
      1.   Before the town board of trustees orders such action, at least ten
(10) days' notice that such unsecured building is to be boarded and secured
shall be given by mail to any property owners and mortgage holders as provided
in section 5-4-3 of this chapter. At the time of mailing of notice to any
property owner or mortgage holder, the town shall obtain a receipt of mailing
from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and
the name and address of the mailee. A copy of the notice shall also be posted
on the property to be affected. However, if neither the property owner nor the
mortgage holder can be located, notice may be given by posting a copy of the
notice on the property or by publication as defined in 11 Oklahoma Statutes
section 1-102. Such notice shall be published one time, not less than ten (10)
days prior to any hearing or action by the town pursuant to the provisions of
this section. If the town board of trustees anticipates summary abatement of a
nuisance in accordance with the provisions of subsection C8 of this section,
the notice shall state: that any subsequent need for boarding and securing the
building within a six (6) month period after the initial boarding and securing
of the building pursuant to such notice may be summarily boarded and secured by
the town board of trustees; that the costs of such boarding and securing shall
be assessed against the owner; and that a lien may be imposed on the property
to secure such payment, all without further prior notice to the property owner
or mortgage holder.
      2.   The owner of the property may give written consent to the town
authorizing the boarding and securing of such unsecured building and to the
payment of any costs incurred thereby. By giving written consent, the owner
waives any right the owner has to a hearing by the town board of trustees.
      3.   If the property owner does not give written consent to such actions,
a hearing may be held by the town board of trustees to determine whether the
boarding and securing of such unsecured building would promote and benefit the
public health, safety, or welfare. Such hearing may be held in conjunction with
a hearing on the accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds or grass on the
premises of such unsecured building held pursuant to the provisions of
subsection 5-4-3B of this chapter. In making such determination, the town board
of trustees shall apply the following standard: The town board of trustees may
order the boarding and securing of the unsecured building when the boarding and
securing thereof would make such building less available for transient
occupation, decrease a fire hazard created by such building, or decrease the
hazard that such building would constitute an attractive nuisance to children.
Upon making the required determination, the town board of trustees may order
the boarding and securing of the unsecured building.
      4.   After the town board of trustees orders the boarding and securing of
such unsecured building, the town clerk shall immediately file a notice of
unsecured building and lien with the county clerk describing the property,
stating the findings of the town at the hearing at which such building was
determined to be unsecured, and stating that the town claims a lien on the
property for the costs of boarding and securing such building and that such
costs are the personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date
of filing the notice.
      5.   Pursuant to the order of the town board of trustees, the agents of
the town are granted the right of entry on the property for the performance of
the boarding and securing of such building and for the performance of all
necessary duties as a governmental function of the town.
      6.   After an unsecured building has been boarded and secured, the town
board of trustees shall determine the actual costs of such actions and any
other expenses that may be necessary in conjunction therewith including the
cost of the notice and mailing. The town clerk shall forward a statement of the
actual costs attributable to the boarding and securing of the unsecured
building and a demand for payment of such costs by mail to any property owners
and mortgage holders as provided in section
5-4-3 of this chapter. At the time of mailing of the statement of costs to any
property owner or mortgage holder, the town shall obtain a receipt of mailing
from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and
the name and address of the mailee. If the town boards and secures any
unsecured building, the cost to the property owner shall not exceed the actual
cost of the labor, materials, and equipment required for the performance of
such actions. If such actions are done on a private contract basis, the
contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder.
      7.   When payment is made to the town for costs incurred, the town clerk
shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to the actual costs
of the boarding and securing of the unsecured building is not made within
thirty (30) days from the date of the mailing of the statement to the owner of
such property, the town clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount
of the costs to the county treasurer. Once certified to the county treasurer,
payment may only be made to the county treasurer except as otherwise provided
for in this section. At the time of collection, the county treasurer shall
collect a fee of five dollars ($5.00) for each parcel of property and such fee
shall be deposited to the general fund of the county. The costs shall be levied
on the property and collected by the county treasurer as are other taxes
authorized by law. Until fully paid, the costs and the interest thereon shall
be the personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date the
notice of unsecured building and lien is filed with the county clerk. In
addition, the costs and the interest thereon shall be a lien against the
property from the date the notice of the lien is filed with the county clerk.
The lien shall be coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes
and special assessments and shall be prior and superior to all other titles and
liens against the property. The lien shall continue until the costs and
interest are fully paid. If the county treasurer and the town agree that the
county treasurer is unable to collect the assessment, the town may pursue a
civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest thereon by an
action in personam against the property owner and an action in rem to foreclose
its lien against the property. A mineral interest if severed from the surface
owner shall not be subject to any tax or judgment lien created pursuant to this
section. Upon receiving payment, the town clerk shall forward to the county
treasurer a notice of such payment and shall direct discharge of the lien.
      8.   If the town board of trustees causes a structure within the town
limits to be boarded and secured, any subsequent need for boarding and securing
within a six (6) month period constitutes a public nuisance and may be
summarily boarded and secured without further prior notice to the property
owner or the mortgage holder. At the time of each such summary boarding and
securing, the town shall notify the property owner and the mortgage holder of
the boarding and securing and the costs thereof. The notice shall state that
the property owner may request an appeal with the town clerk within ten (10)
days after the mailing of the notice. The notice and hearing shall be as
provided for in subsection C1 of this section. Unless otherwise determined at
the hearing, the cost of such boarding and securing shall be determined and
collected as provided for in subsections C6 and C7 of this section.
      9.   The town board of trustees may determine that a building is
unsecured and order that such building be boarded and secured in the manner
provided for in this section even though such building has not been declared by
the town board of trustees to be dilapidated.
   D.   Town Agent Designated; Right Of Appeal: The town hereby designates the
code enforcement officer to carry out the duties of the board of trustees
specified in this section. The property owner or mortgage holder shall have a
right of appeal to the board of trustees from any order of the code enforcement
officer. Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with the
clerk within ten (10) days after the administrative order is rendered.
   E.   Application Of Section To Land Zoned Agricultural: The provisions of
this section shall not apply to any property zoned and used for agricultural
purposes. (Ord. 5-4-1, 9-13-2011)
5-4-5: CLEANING UP PREMISES AFTER BUILDING REMOVAL:
   In all cases in which a house or building has been removed before the taking
effect of this chapter or a house or building is torn down or demolished
pursuant to order of the state fire marshal or one of his assistants or the
sheriff of the county or the fire chief as provided by the state law or as
provided in this chapter and in which any of the following conditions exist,
then the owner or owners of the lot or lots and the person, firm, or
corporation who tore down the house or building shall immediately comply with
the provisions of this chapter.
   A.   The premises have not been cleaned up;
   B.   The premises are cleaned up and all lumber, brick, concrete, cement,
plaster, nails, wire, and other material have not been removed;
   C.   The materials removed but the cellar space and excavations have not
been filled;
   D.   A cistern or well has not been filled or safely and securely closed and
all openings to sanitary sewers have not been plugged to meet the requirements
of the town plumbing inspector and securely closed; and
   E.   The lot or lots have not been leveled and left entirely free from trash
or the same be not immediately done. (Ord. 5-4-1, 9-13-2011)
5-4-6: PRESERVATION REVIEW OF DEMOLITION ACTIVITIES:
   The preservation review commission shall have the power to make
recommendations regarding the proposed demolition of designated landmarks or
historic structures, including public demolition procedures initiated through
statutory "nuisance abatement" processes, as well as other public or privately
initiated demolition processes. No permit to demolish all or part of such
landmarks or structures shall be granted by the building official nor shall an
abatement order be implemented, except as follows:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided, no person, including an agent of the town
in charge of a landmark or historic site improvement in a historic district
shall be granted a permit or permission to demolish, partially or in total,
such property without the written approval of the preservation review
commission;
   B.   Upon the filing of an application with the preservation review
commission, the commission shall determine whether the proposed change would
destroy or adversely affect the historical features of the landmark, historic
site, or historic district property;
   C.   If the preservation review commission determines that the landmark,
historic site, or property within a historic district would be adversely
affected by the proposed change, it may withhold its consent of the granting of
permission or of the permit. The commission shall make its decision within
thirty (30) days after the filing of the application and shall state in writing
the reasons for withholding consent, mailing same to the applicant; and
   D.   If the preservation review commission refuses to grant permission or
approve issuance of a permit for demolition, it shall cooperate with the
applicant to arrive at a mutually agreeable plan to avoid demolition, maintain
historic integrity, and achieve the applicant's objectives. If no plan is
agreed upon within six (6) months of the filing of the application, the
building official may issue the permit to demolish the subject property or the
town agent may proceed without the approval of the commission. (Ord. 5-4-1, 9-
13-2011)
5-4-7: PENALTY:
   Any person who shall tear down or begin the tearing down of any house or
building within the town limits of the town without having first procured a
permit therefor as herein provided shall be guilty of an offense against the
town and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 5-4-1, 9-13-2011)
***** CHAPTER 5
ABANDONED, JUNKED VEHICLES *****
SECTION:
5-5-1: Nuisance Declared
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: Parking Or Leaving Dismantled Vehicles
5-5-4: Penalty
5-5-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
   Motor vehicles which are abandoned, dismantled, partially dismantled,
wrecked, junked, inoperative, or discarded, or left about the town in places
other than authorized junkyards or other areas authorized by the town board of
trustees and which tend to do any one or more of the following:
   A.   Impede traffic in the streets;
   B.   Reduce the value of private property;
   C.   Create fire hazards;
   D.   Extend and aggravate urban blight; or
   E.   Result in a serious hazard to the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience and welfare of the residents of the town,
are hereby declared to be a nuisance. (2004 Code)
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivatives shall have the meanings given herein:
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle which does not have lawfully affixed
thereto an unexpired license plate or plates and the condition of which is
wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperative, abandoned, or
discarded.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to travel
along the ground and shall include, but not be limited to, automobiles, buses,
motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts, golf
carts, campers and trailers.
   PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any real property within the town which is privately owned
and which is not "public property" as defined in this section.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any street, alley, or highway which shall include the
entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly owned or
maintained for the purposes of vehicular travel, and shall also mean any other
publicly owned property or facility. (2004 Code)
5-5-3: PARKING OR LEAVING DISMANTLED VEHICLES:
   A.   Parking Vehicle Prohibited: No person shall park, store, or leave, or
permit the parking, storing, or leaving of any junk motor vehicle or vehicle of
any kind which is in an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, junked, or
partially dismantled condition, whether attended or not, upon any public or
private property within the town for a period of time in excess of ten (10)
days.
   B.   Public Offense: The presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled,
inoperative, junked or partially dismantled vehicle or parts thereof on private
or public property is hereby declared a public offense and misdemeanor.
   C.   Removal Of Vehicle: After proper notice, the vehicle may be removed by
the town or its agents. Costs of removal and storage are chargeable against the
owner of the vehicle 1 .
   D.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to any vehicle enclosed within
a building on private property or to any vehicle held, stored or parked in
connection with a business enterprise lawfully licensed by the town, nor shall
this section apply to a town owned vehicle in an appropriate storage place
maintained in a lawful place by the town. (2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 See also section
  2-2-4 of this code.
5-5-4: PENALTY:
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, by doing any act
prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or declared to be an offense or
misdemeanor thereby, is guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day upon which any such violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. (2004 Code)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC SAFETY
***** CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT *****
SECTION:
6-1-1: Department Created; Chief
6-1-2: Police Officers
6-1-3: Duties Of Department
6-1-4: Ride Along Program
6-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; CHIEF:
   There shall be a police department, the head of which may be a chief of
police, or the police chief, appointed by the town board of trustees and
removable by the town board. If appointed, the police chief shall be an officer
of the town and have supervision and control of the police department. All
police officers are officers of the town. (1994 Code § 13-301)
6-1-2: POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   Appointment: Police officers shall be appointed by the police chief and
subject to approval by the town board of trustees.
   B.   Duties: Police officers shall perform such duties as shall be required
of them by the police chief, the town ordinances, federal, state or county laws
or regulations, and other actions required in the maintenance of good order and
public peace. (1994 Code § 13-303)
6-1-3: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT:
   It is the duty of the police department to:
   A.   Apprehend and arrest on view or on warrant and bring to justice
violators of the ordinances of the town;
   B.   Suppress all riots, affrays and unlawful assemblies which may come to
the department's knowledge, and generally to keep the peace;
   C.   Serve warrants, writs, executions and other process properly directed
and delivered by the department;
   D.   Apprehend and arrest persons violating federal or state laws, as
provided by law, and turn them over to proper authorities; and
   E.   In all respects, perform all duties pertaining to the offices of police
officer. (1994 Code § 13-302)
6-1-4: RIDE ALONG PROGRAM:
   A.   Purpose: The ride along program was developed so that the people of the
community can get to know the police department.
   B.   Restrictions:
      1.   The ride along participant must live in the town limits or work for
the town and be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      2.   The ride along participant may only ride once a month, three (3)
times a year, for no more than two (2) hours at a time.
      3.   The ride along participant must sign a liability waiver.
   C.   Exemptions: The only exceptions to the ride along program are that a
rider can ride more if the rider is a dispatcher, jailer, or is CLEET
certified. The reason for this is training. (Ord., 11-1-1999)
***** CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT *****
SECTION:
6-2-1: Department Established; Composition; Qualifications
6-2-2: Duties Of Department
6-2-3: Powers And Duties Of Chief
6-2-4: Other Department Personnel
6-2-5: New Members
6-2-6: Bylaws
6-2-7: Firefighters' Pension And Retirement System
6-2-8: Authority At Fires
6-2-9: Equipment
6-2-10: Entry Powers
6-2-11: Revenues Of Department
6-2-12: Rules And Regulations
6-2-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION; QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   There is a fire department of the town, the head of which is the chief
of the fire department. (1994 Code § 13-201)
   B.   The fire department of the town is a volunteer department which has in
its service not more than two (2) full time salaried firefighters and not less
than six (6) nor more than twenty (20) volunteer firefighters. For the purpose
of this chapter, a "volunteer firefighter" is considered as one who is enrolled
as a member of the fire department and who serves in the capacity without
receiving a regular salary. (1994 Code § 13-202)
   C.   Membership of the department shall consist of such persons as may be
appointed by the chief and shall be persons residing within a five (5) mile
radius of the town. Determination of whether candidates for appointment are
capable of performing their duties shall be made by the chief after a medical
and physical examination has been made in a manner prescribed by the chief and
approved by the town board of trustees. (1994 Code § 13-207)
6-2-2: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT:
   It is the duty of the fire department, among others, to extinguish fires; to
rescue persons endangered by fire; to resuscitate, and to administer first aid
to, persons injured in or about burning structures, or elsewhere in case of an
emergency; to promote fire prevention; and unless otherwise provided, to
enforce all ordinances relating to fires, fire prevention and safety of persons
from fire in public and private buildings. (1994 Code § 13-201)
6-2-3: POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF:
   The chief shall be the administrative head of the department, subject to the
laws of the state, ordinances of the town, and the rules and regulations
adopted in this chapter. The chief shall have the following powers and duties,
and he may assign duties to other members of the department:
   A.   Shall be responsible for the general condition and efficient operation
of the department, the training of members, and the performance of all other
duties imposed upon him, and shall have supervision and control of the fire
department, subject to the supervision and control of the town board of
trustees;
   B.   May inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the department the
fire hydrants, cisterns and other sources of water supply at least twice each
year; (1994 Code § 13-203)
   C.   Shall maintain a library or file of publications on fire prevention and
fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage of all members;
(1994 Code § 13-203; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   Shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct the officers and
members in the performance of their duties;
   E.   Shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire hazards in the
community and on the activities of the department;
   F.   Shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to determine its
cause, and in the case of suspicion of incendiarism or arson, shall notify
proper authorities and secure the preservation of all possible evidence for
future use in the case;
   G.   Is authorized to enter any building or premises in the town at any
reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to serve written
notice on persons for any violations that may be found; and
   H.   Shall see that complete records are kept of all fires, inspections,
apparatus and equipment, personnel and other information of the department and
shall make reports to the town board of trustees as may be required. The chief
shall keep the town informed regarding the fire department and its needs. (1994
Code § 13-203)
6-2-4: OTHER DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL:
   A.   Assistant Chief: In the absence of the chief, the assistant chief on
duty shall command the department and be held responsible therefor in all
respects with the full powers and responsibilities of the chief. The assistant
chief shall be elected from among the members of the department. (1994 Code §
13-204; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Company Officers: Company officers shall be selected by the chief based
on the following criteria:
      1.   Knowledge of firefighting;
      2.   Leadership ability; and
      3.   Knowledge of firefighting equipment. (1994 Code § 13-205)
   C.   Secretary-Treasurer: One member elected by the members of the fire
department, subject to approval of the chief, shall be the secretary-treasurer.
His duties shall consist of the following:
      1.   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
      2.   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
      3.   Collecting any money due the department by the members. (1994 Code §
13-206)
   D.   Social Officers: The department may elect a president, vice president,
secretary or treasurer to be known as social officers. Such officers may be
elected in any manner and for any term the members may decide upon, and their
duties shall be to arrange for and manage any or all social functions sponsored
by the members. The functions and duties of the social officers shall in no way
interfere with those of the regular department officers who are charged with
responsibility for all fire service activities of the department. (1994 Code §
13-210)
6-2-5: NEW MEMBERS:
   New members of the department shall be appointed by the chief and shall be
on probation for one year after their appointment. Upon completion of their
probation period, new members must be approved by the majority of the other
members of the fire department, the chief and the town board of trustees. (1994
Code § 13-207)
6-2-6: BYLAWS:
   The bylaws of the department shall include the following:
   A.   All volunteer fire department members are required, when notified, to
respond to alarms of fire and other emergencies.
   B.   A member is required to be present at all regular meetings, called
meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters.
   C.   At least one regular business meeting of the members shall be held each
month.
   D.   Any member having two (2) unexcused absences in succession or three (3)
unexcused absences in a period of three (3) months will be dropped from the
fire department rolls.
   E.   Any member leaving the town for an extended period of time is required
to notify the chief.
   F.   Any member refusing to attend training classes provided for members of
the department will be dropped.
   G.   Any member of the fire department may be dropped from the rolls for the
following offenses:
      1.   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
      2.   Any act of insubordination;
      3.   Neglect of duty;
      4.   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the fire
department; or
      5.   Conviction of a felony.
   H.   Any member of the fire department may be dropped from the rolls by
majority vote of the members of the company and approval of the board of
trustees. (1994 Code § 13-208; amd. 2004 Code)
6-2-7: FIREFIGHTERS' PENSION AND RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
   A.   System Created; Purpose; Town Policy: There is hereby created, for the
purpose of providing pension retirement allowance and other benefits for
firefighters of the town, a firefighters' pension and retirement system. It is
declared to be the official policy of the town to participate in the pension
system as provided by state law. (1994 Code § 2-211)
   B.   State Regulations Adopted: The firefighters' pension and retirement
system as established by 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 49-100.1 et seq., is
hereby adopted by reference.
   C.   Board Of Trustees Of Firefighters' Pension And Retirement System: The
local board of trustees of the firefighters' pension and retirement system,
servicing the firefighters of the town, shall be constituted as provided by
state law and shall have the powers and duties prescribed thereby. (1994 Code §
2-212)
6-2-8: AUTHORITY AT FIRES:
   A.   The fire chief, assistant fire chiefs or other fire department officers
in charge shall have complete charge and control at all fires, and fire orders
shall be obeyed.
   B.   The chief or his officers may prescribe limits in the vicinity of a
fire within which no persons, except those residing or owning property therein,
shall be permitted to enter except on the order of the officer in command.
   C.   Police officers may aid in carrying into effect the provisions of this
section. (1994 Code § 13-212)
6-2-9: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Authorized Equipment: The department shall be equipped with such
apparatus and other equipment as may be required from time to time to maintain
its efficiency and properly protect life and property from fire.
   B.   Purchase Of Equipment: Recommendations of apparatus and equipment
needed shall be made by the chief, purchased after approval, as other town
purchases 1 .
   C.   Storage: All equipment of the department shall be safely and
conveniently housed in such places as may be designated by the town board of
trustees.
   D.   Alarms Of Fire: Suitable arrangements and equipment shall be provided
for people to turn in alarms and to notify members of the department so that
they may promptly respond.
   E.   Use Of Equipment:
      1.   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private
purpose, nor shall any person wilfully and without proper authority take away
or conceal any article used in any way by the department.
      2.   No person shall enter any place where fire apparatus is housed or
handle any apparatus or equipment belonging to the department, unless
accompanied by, or having the special permission of, an officer or authorized
member of the department. (1994 Code § 13-211)
 
Notes
1 See section
  2-1-4 of this code.
6-2-10: ENTRY POWERS:
   The chief of the fire department and his designee may at all reasonable
hours enter any building or premises within his jurisdiction for the purpose of
making any inspection or investigation which, under the provisions of this
chapter and other provisions of this code, he may deem necessary to make. (1994
Code § 13-213)
6-2-11: REVENUES OF DEPARTMENT:
The volunteer fire department charges the homeowner's insurance company for
fire runs in town 1 . This charge is to provide revenue for the support and
reimbursement of the town volunteer fire department. (Ord., 11-9-1998; amd.
2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 See section
  2-2-5 of this code.
6-2-12: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   The town board of trustees, by motion or resolution, may adopt and change
regulations relating to the fire department, its organization, operation and
compensation. (1994 Code § 13-209)
**** ARTICLE A. SERVICE OUTSIDE TOWN ****
SECTION:
6-2A-1: Contracts Authorized; Fee
6-2A-2: Authority To Answer Calls
6-2A-3: Charges For Calls
6-2A-4: Serving In Regular Line Of Duty
6-2A-5: Agent Of State
6-2A-1: CONTRACTS AUTHORIZED; FEE:
   The town is hereby authorized and empowered to enter into contracts or
agreements with individuals, firms, private corporations or associations, or
military installations or commands, or political subdivisions of the state for
fire protection outside the corporate limits of the town, and to contract to
provide fire protection jointly with other organizations and municipal
subdivisions of the state. Any contract entered into by the town with an
individual owner, a firm, private corporation, association or political
subdivision, for outside aid or mutual aid for fire protection, shall provide
for the payment by the owner, firm, private corporation, association or
political subdivision for such service, equipment or personnel in an amount
reached through negotiation by the parties 1 . (1994 Code §§ 13-221, 13-222)
 
Notes
1 See section
  2-2-5 of this code for specific amounts.
6-2A-2: AUTHORITY TO ANSWER CALLS:
   The fire department is authorized to answer all calls outside the town
within a distance of ten (10) miles from the town limits, unless in the opinion
of the fire chief, it is inexpedient to do so on account of another fire in the
town, broken apparatus, impassable or dangerous highways or other physical
conditions. (1994 Code § 13-223)
6-2A-3: CHARGES FOR CALLS:
The contracts authorized in section 6-2A-1 of this article shall be
conditioned, upon the determination of the fire chief, that the property in
question is within a reasonable distance from the town and that, prior to any
fire protection equipment being dispatched for any fire call for such property,
the fire chief on duty shall first approve such call and determine that the
equipment and personnel to be dispatched are not needed for other purposes
within the town. The charges for such calls shall be as specified in the fee
schedule 1 . (1994 Code § 13-224; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 See section
  2-2-5 of this code.
6-2A-4: SERVING IN REGULAR LINE OF DUTY:
   All municipal firefighters, full paid or volunteer, attending and serving at
fires or doing fire prevention work or rescue, resuscitation, first aid,
inspection or any other official work outside the corporate limits of the town,
as herein provided, shall be considered as serving in their regular line of
duty as fully as if they were serving within the corporate limits of the town;
but full paid firefighters shall receive no additional compensation, and
volunteer firefighters shall receive only such compensation as may be provided
for by ordinance or resolution for such cases. All such firefighters shall be
entitled to all the benefits of any pension fund, firemen's relief and pension
fund in the same manner as if the firefighting or fire prevention work or
rescue, resuscitation, first aid, inspection or any other official work has
been within the corporate limits of the town. (2004 Code)
6-2A-5: AGENT OF STATE:
   The fire department, when answering any fire alarm or call or performing any
fire prevention services or resuscitation, first aid, inspection or any other
official work outside the corporate limits of the town, shall be considered an
agent of the state, and acting solely and alone in a governmental capacity, and
the town shall not be liable in damages for any act of commission, omission or
negligence while answering or returning from any fire, or reported fire, or
doing any fire prevention work or rescue, resuscitation, first aid, inspection
or any other official work done under and by virtue of this article. (1994 Code
§ 13-226; amd. 2004 Code)
**** ARTICLE B. RURAL FIRE SERVICE ****
SECTION:
6-2B-1: Rural Fire Service Established
6-2B-2: Purpose
6-2B-3: Fees
6-2B-4: Financial Transactions
6-2B-5: Nonliability Of Fire Department
6-2B-6: Rural Fire Service Advisory Board
6-2B-1: RURAL FIRE SERVICE ESTABLISHED:
   There is hereby established the Wayne rural fire service to be operated by
the town volunteer fire department and to be under the direction of the town
board of trustees. (1994 Code § 13-231)
6-2B-2: PURPOSE:
   The rural fire service shall be operated primarily for the purpose of
providing fire protection to rural residents living outside of the corporate
limits of the town but within the area encompassed generally by the Wayne
mailing route, Wayne Fire District, or any other area recommended by the rural
fire service and approved by the town board. (1994 Code § 13-231; amd. Ord.
2026-02, 3-2-2026)
6-2B-3: FEES:
   A.   Members: The service shall be provided upon the annual payment set by
the town board by motion or resolution of a membership fee by each home or
property owner or resident 1 . Payment of the annual membership fee will cover
all fire calls for the paying members, regardless of the number of calls.
Annual payment of the membership fee shall be due on or before May 1.
   B.   Nonmembers: The cost of fire calls to rural residents who are not
paying members shall be the same as the costs established in section
6-2A-3 of this chapter.
   C.   Unpaid Fees And Charges: Unpaid fees, charges or annual membership may
be subject to collection by the town in any manner normally employed by the
town, including use of small claims court. (1994 Code § 13-231)
 
Notes
1 1.   See section
  2-2-5 of this code.
6-2B-4: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS:
   Payment of claims and other financial transactions involving the use of
funds derived from the rural fire service shall be made and processed in
accordance with Oklahoma Statutes, town ordinances and accepted town
procedures. (1994 Code § 13-231)
6-2B-5: NONLIABILITY OF FIRE DEPARTMENT:
   In the performance of fire prevention or protection services outside the
corporate limits of the town, the town volunteer department shall not assume
responsibility for damages to structures incurred prior to the arrival of the
department, nor shall the department assume responsibility for damages to
structures incurred as a result of late notification of the members of the
department. (1994 Code § 13-231)
6-2B-6: RURAL FIRE SERVICE ADVISORY BOARD:
   A.   Board Established; Purpose: There is hereby established a Wayne rural
fire service advisory board for the purpose of advising the town board of
trustees concerning the operation of the rural fire service.
   B.   Composition; Election And Terms:
      1.   The advisory board shall consist of the town representative and four
(4) additional members who shall be elected from the rural members of the rural
fire service, subject to the following first election schedule:
         a.   Two (2) members shall be elected for three (3) year terms;
         b.   One member shall be elected for a two (2) year term; and
         c.   One member shall be elected for a one year term.
      2.   All paying members of the rural fire service shall be eligible to
serve on the advisory board. Board members shall eventually serve three (3)
year terms.
   C.   Meetings: The advisory board shall normally meet on the first Thursday
of the months of January, April, July and October of each year. (1994 Code
§ 13-232; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   Purchases And Activities Submitted To Board: The fire chief shall be
responsible for ensuring that proposed fire protection related purchases and
activities are submitted to the advisory board for their recommendation and
comment prior to final action by the town board of trustees, if in excess of
two hundred dollars ($200.00). However, failure to submit such proposals to the
advisory board shall not invalidate the town board action on any such proposal.
(1994 Code § 13-232)
***** CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION *****
SECTION:
6-3-1: Purpose
6-3-2: Civil Defense Department
6-3-3: Director
6-3-4: Emergency Powers
6-3-1: PURPOSE:
   The purpose of this chapter is to create an emergency management and civil
defense organization for the town to be prepared for, and to function in the
event of, emergencies endangering the lives and property of the people of the
town. The duty of such civil defense organization shall be the protection of
the lives and health of the citizens of the town and their property and
property rights, both private and public, and to perform all functions
necessary and incident thereto. (1994 Code § 13-401)
6-3-2: CIVIL DEFENSE DEPARTMENT:
   The purpose of the civil defense department (hereinafter "department") is to
prepare for, and function in the event of, emergencies endangering the lives
and property of the citizens of the town. The department is headed by a
director, appointed by the town board of trustees for such compensation and
under such terms as the town board of trustees may establish. The director
serves at the pleasure of the town board of trustees. (1994 Code § 13-402)
6-3-3: DIRECTOR:
   A.   Powers And Duties: The director of the department shall be the
administrative head of the department and shall be responsible for carrying out
the emergency management and civil defense program of the town in coordination
with the civil defense advisory committee. He shall have such further duties
and responsibilities to cooperate with all emergency services and civil defense
agencies of other governmental units, including the state and the federal
governments.
   B.   Deputy Director: The town board of trustees or the director, when
empowered by the town board of trustees, may designate some person as deputy
director or assistant director and shall prescribe the duties of the deputy or
assistant from time to time as necessary for the carrying out of the emergency
management and civil defense program of the town. The deputy director shall
perform all duties of the director upon the death, disability or illness, or
separation from service of the director. In addition to the foregoing duties,
the deputy or assistant shall render such aid and assistance and perform such
duties under the emergency management and civil defense program of the town as
may be required by the director. (1994 Code § 13-403)
6-3-4: EMERGENCY POWERS:
   A.   In the event of an enemy caused emergency or emergency resulting from
natural causes, the director, after due authorization from the mayor, shall
have the power and authority to enforce all rules and regulations relating to
emergency management and civil defense and, if necessary, to take control of
transportation, communications, stocks of fuel, food, clothing, medicine, and
public utilities for the purpose of protecting the civilian population. He
shall cooperate in every way with other governmental agencies, emergency
management services and civil defense organizations.
   B.   The director, other members of the department and members of any
emergency services and the civil defense organization established herein shall
have the power and authority to enforce the laws of the state and ordinances of
the town during the period of emergency, and shall, at such time, have the
further power to make arrests for violations of such laws or ordinances. (1994
Code § 13-404)
***** CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL *****
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2:    Prohibited Acts And Conditions
6-4-3: Abuse Of Animals
6-4-4: Running At Large
6-4-5: Pasturing Animals
6-4-6: Noisy Animals
6-4-7: Nuisance, Vicious Animals
6-4-8: Animal Housing And Premises
6-4-9: Dogs And Cats
6-4-10: Rabies Control
6-4-11: Impoundment And Redemption Provisions
6-4-12: Investigation Of Violations
6-4-13: Records Kept
6-4-14: Penalty
6-4-15: Miniature Goats
6-4-16: Keeping Of Hens
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
All words or phrases used in this chapter and not defined in this section shall
be defined and interpreted according to their common usage. As used in this
chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this section:
ANIMAL: Any dog, cat, livestock, horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat,
hog, rabbit, turkey or other animal or fowl.
AT LARGE:
   A.   Not securely confined by a fence or other means on premises under the
control of or occupied by the owner; or
   B.   Not under the control of the owner, a member of his immediate family
over twelve (12) years of age, or an agent of the owner, by leash not more than
six feet (6') in length, if off the premises of the owner.
FOWL: Chickens, guineas, geese, ducks and pigeons.
OWNER OR KEEPER: Any person, group of persons or corporation owning, keeping,
maintaining or harboring, or having care or custody of, an animal or animals or
fowl or birds.
PROVOKE OR PROVOCATION: With respect to an attack by an animal, that the animal
was hit, kicked or struck by a person with an object or part of a person's
body, or that any part of the animal's body is pulled, pinched or squeezed by a
person.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: An animal which has bitten, or attempted to bite, any person
without undue provocation, or which attacks, or barks or growls at and acts as
if it intends to attack or bite, or bites a person or persons when not unduly
provoked.
WITHOUT PROVOCATION: An animal was not teased, tormented or abused; and also
means where the animal was not protecting its owner or owner's property. (1994
Code § 4-101; amd. 2004 Code)
6-4-2: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   It is unlawful for any owner or person to:
   A.   Fail to prevent any animal from running at large within the town.
   B.   Perform, do or carry out any inhumane treatment against any animal.
   C.   Keep, possess, own, control, maintain, use or otherwise exercise
dominion over any livestock in the town or any animal or animals which, by
reason of noise, odor or unsanitary conditions, become offensive to a
reasonable and prudent person of ordinary tastes and sensibilities, or which
constitute or become a health hazard as determined by the health officer or
animal control officer 1
.
   D.   Turn any animal at large or release an animal which is restrained or
confined in an enclosure as required by this chapter. (1994 Code § 4-103)
   E.   Have over three (3) adult dogs, and no more than three (3) adult cats,
other than puppies or kittens under the age of eight (8) weeks. (Ord. 125, 10-
12-1996; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1 See subsection
  5-2-3 A19c of this code, hog pens prohibited.
6-4-3: ABUSE OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Cruelty To Animals: It is unlawful for any person, wilfully and
maliciously, to pour on or apply to any animal any drug or other thing which
inflicts pain on the animal; or to knowingly treat an animal in a cruel or
inhumane manner; or to knowingly neglect an animal belonging to him or in his
custody in a cruel or inhumane manner. (1994 Code § 4-141)
   B.   Poisoning Animals: It is unlawful for a person wilfully to poison any
dog or other animal, or to knowingly expose poison so that the same may be
taken by an animal. (1994 Code § 4-142; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Animal Fights: It is unlawful for any person to instigate or encourage
a fight between animals or to encourage one animal to attack, pursue or annoy
another animal, or to keep a house, pit or other place used for fights between
animals. (1994 Code § 4-143; amd. 2004 Code)
6-4-4: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   Running At Large Prohibited:
      1.   No owner shall permit any animal, including fowl, owned, harbored or
kept by him to be at large within the town.
      2.   It is unlawful for any animal to be at large within the town.
   B.   Enforcement: Any animal running at large in the town may be taken up
and impounded at the animal shelter. The animal control officer may, at his
discretion, cite the owner of such animal to appear in municipal court to
answer charges of violation of this chapter. (1994 Code § 4-102)
6-4-5: PASTURING ANIMALS:
   It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine or pasture any animal on any
public school ground or other public property, federal, state, city or other,
on any railroad right of way, or on any property without the consent of the
person owning or controlling such property. (1994 Code § 4-106; amd. Ord. 2020-
001, 2-3-2020)
6-4-6: NOISY ANIMALS 1
:
   No person shall keep any animal which causes frequent or long continued
noise or otherwise so as to disturb the comfort or repose of any person in the
vicinity. Any violation of this section is declared to be a nuisance and as
such may be abated. (1994 Code § 4-105)
 
Notes
1 1 See also subsections 5-2-3A6 and A19 of this code.
6-4-7: NUISANCE, VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   No person shall keep any animal which is a nuisance or is "vicious" as
defined in this chapter. (1994 Code § 4-105)
6-4-8: ANIMAL HOUSING AND PREMISES 1
:
   A.   Construction Requirements: Every building or place where any animal or
fowl is kept shall be constructed of such material and in such manner that it
can be kept clean and sanitary at all times.
   B.   Location Restrictions: No place where an animal is kept shall be kept
closer than forty feet (40') to the premises of an apartment, hotel,
restaurant, boarding house, food store, building used for educational,
religious or hospital purposes, or dwelling other than that occupied by the
owner or occupant of the premises upon which the animal is kept.
   C.   Manure:
      1.   Receptacle Required: Every building where any animal is kept, if
located within two hundred feet (200') of any apartment, hotel, restaurant,
boarding house, food store, building used for educational, religious or
hospital purposes, or any dwelling other than that occupied by the owner or
occupant of the premises upon which the animal is kept, shall be provided with
a watertight and flytight receptacle for manure of such size as to hold all
accumulations of manure.
      2.   Disposal: The receptacle shall be emptied sufficiently often and in
such manner as to prevent it from being or becoming a nuisance, and shall be
kept covered at all times except when open during the deposit or removal of
manure or refuse.
      3.   Accumulation 2
: No manure shall be allowed to accumulate on such premises except in the
receptacle.
   D.   Inspections: The animal control officer or health officer shall inspect
any structure or place where an animal is kept on his own initiative or upon
complaint. He may issue any such reasonable order to the owner of such animal
as he may deem necessary to cause the animal to be kept as required in this
chapter or in a manner so as not to constitute a nuisance. He may make a
complaint before the town court against any person for violation of any
provision of this chapter, or of any such reasonable order. (1994 Code § 4-104)
 
Notes
1 2 See also subsection 5-2-3A19 of this code.
2 1 See also subsections
  5-2-3 A11, A12 and A18b of this code.
6-4-9: DOGS AND CATS:
   A.   Rabies Vaccination Required 1
:
      1.   Vaccination Required: No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog or
cat within the town limits, unless such dog or cat six (6) months of age or
older is vaccinated for rabies annually.
      2.   Tag: When a veterinarian vaccinates a dog or cat against rabies, he
shall issue to the owner of such dog or cat a metal tag or check evidencing
such vaccination and the year of vaccination. It shall be the duty of the owner
of the dog or cat to attach the tag or check issued to him pursuant to this
subsection to the dog or cat, and it shall be unlawful for any person to remove
such tag or check without the owner's consent.
      3.   Violation: Unless the owner of any dog or cat furnishes written
proof that the dog or cat has been vaccinated for rabies by a licensed
veterinarian in the past twelve (12) months, the owner shall be guilty of an
offense. (1994 Code § 4-121)
   B.   Licensing Provisions:
      1.   License, Fee And Information Required: No person shall own, keep,
harbor or have custody of any dog or cat over three (3) months of age without
first obtaining a license from the town clerk-treasurer and paying the required
fee. The owner shall give the clerk-treasurer the name and address of the
owner, the name, breed, color and sex of the dog or cat, and such other
information as the clerk-treasurer may request.
      2.   Fee Amount; Expiration Of License: The license fee for animals shall
be as set by the town board by motion or resolution 2
and shall expire on May 31 annually.
      3.   Tag: The town clerk-treasurer shall issue a tag and receipt to the
owner of the dog or cat at the time of paying for the license. The owner shall
affix the tag to the collar of the dog or cat so that the tag can easily be
seen by officers. The tag shall be worn by the dog or cat at all times.
      4.   Exemptions From Licensing: This subsection shall not apply to the
keeping of dogs or cats temporarily brought or kept within the town for
exhibitions, nor to guide dogs actually used to aid a person with disabilities.
(1994 Code § 4-122; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 2 See section 2-2-5 of this code for fee.
2 1See section
  2-2-5  of this code.
6-4-10: RABIES CONTROL 1
:
   A.   Animal Bites; Quarantine Of Animal:
      1.   Every animal that bites or scratches a person shall be reported
within four (4) hours to the animal control officer and shall thereupon be
securely quarantined at a veterinarian hospital for a period of ten (10) days
from the date the person was bitten, and shall not be released from such
quarantine except by permission of the animal control officer of the town and
the veterinarian in charge of the quarantined animal. Such quarantine may be at
any veterinary hospital chosen by the owner. Failure of the owner or keeper to
quarantine his animal within the four (4) hour period herein will make him
guilty of an offense.
      2.   The owner, upon demand by any town officer or animal control
officer, shall surrender any animal that has bitten or scratched a human, or
which is suspected as having been exposed to rabies, for supervised quarantine,
testing or euthanasia, the expense for which shall be borne by the owner; and
the animal may be reclaimed by the owner if adjudged free of rabies. (1994 Code
§ 4-161)
   B.   Rabies Diagnoses; Quarantine Of Town:
      1.   When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid,
or suspected by a licensed veterinarian as being rabid, and dies while under
such observation, the animal control officer or veterinarian shall immediately
send the head of such animal to the state health department for pathological
examination, and shall notify the proper public health officer of reports of
human contacts and diagnosis made of the suspected animal.
      2.   When one or both reports give a positive diagnosis of rabies, the
health or animal control officer of the town may recommend a townwide
quarantine for a period of six (6) months, and upon the invoking of such
quarantine, no animal shall be taken into the streets or permitted to be in the
streets during such period of quarantine. During such quarantine, no animal
shall be taken or shipped from the town without written permission of the
animal control officer of the town.
      3.   During such period of rabies quarantine as herein designated, every
animal bitten by an animal adjudged to be rabid shall be treated for such
rabies infection by a licensed veterinarian, or held under six (6) months
quarantine by the owner in the same manner as other animals are quarantined.
      4.   In the event there are additional positive cases of rabies occurring
during the period of quarantine, such period of quarantine may be extended for
an additional six (6) months. (1994 Code § 4-162)
   C.   Destruction Or Removal Of Rabid Animals:
      1.   No person shall kill or cause to be killed any rabid animal, any
animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or any animal biting or
scratching a human, except as herein provided, nor shall any person remove the
animal from the town limits without written permission from the health officer
of the town or the animal control officer.
      2.   The carcass of any animal exposed to rabies shall, upon demand, be
surrendered to the animal control officer.
      3.   The animal control officer shall direct the disposition of any
animal found to be infected with rabies.
      4.   No person shall fail or refuse to surrender any animal for
quarantine or destruction as required herein when demand is made therefor by an
employee empowered to enforce this chapter. Such refusal shall be deemed an
offense. (1994 Code § 4-163)
   D.   Reports Required:
      1.   It is the duty of every physician, veterinarian or other
practitioner to report to the animal control officer the names and addresses of
persons treated for bites inflicted by animals, together with such other
information as will be helpful in rabies control.
      2.   It is the duty of every licensed veterinarian to report to the
animal control officer his diagnosis of any animal observed by him to be a
rabies suspect. (1994 Code § 4-164)
 
Notes
1 2 See section
  2-2-5 of this code for fees and costs.
6-4-11: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Operation Of Pound: The town may operate on its own or contract with an
outside agency to serve as the town's animal shelter or pound to provide for
the impoundment of animals pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Impoundment Of Animals; Fee: Any animal found running at large shall be
picked up and immediately impounded in the animal shelter and there confined in
a humane manner. Fees for impoundment shall be as provided by the shelter or
the town board 1
. (1994 Code § 4-131)
   C.   Time For Redemption; Destruction: An owner of an impounded animal or
his agent may redeem the animal prior to its sale or destruction, as provided
for herein, by paying the required fees against the animal 2
and meeting any other requirements which may be prescribed in this chapter. If
the owner or his agent has not
redeemed the animal within the first three (3) days after the impoundment of
the animal, the animal may be otherwise disposed of as provided for herein.
   D.   Adoption Of Animals: A person desiring to adopt an animal from
impoundment shall pay an adoption fee, costs of any necessary vaccinations, and
a deposit to guarantee the neutering or spaying of the dog or cat 3
, and shall sign an agreement with the town ensuring that the dog or cat will
be spayed or neutered. (1994 Code § 4-133)
   E.   Breaking Into Pound, Interfering With Officers Prohibited:
      1.   No person shall interfere with or hinder or molest any agent of the
town in the performance of any duty of such agent, or seek to release any
animal in the custody of the town or its agents, except as provided by law.
      2.   If any person breaks open, or in any manner directly or indirectly
aids in, or counsels or advises the breaking open of any town pound or contract
pound, or hinders, delays or obstructs any person duly authorized in taking up
or taking to the town pound any animal liable to be impounded, he shall be
guilty of an offense. (1994 Code § 4-132)
 
Notes
1 1 See section
  2-2-5  of this code.
2 2 See section
  2-2-5  of this code.
3 1 See section
  2-2-5  of this code for specific costs.
6-4-12: INVESTIGATION OF VIOLATIONS:
   A.   For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by this chapter and
to enforce its provisions, the animal control or health officers are empowered
to call upon the residents of any premises upon which a dog or cat is kept or
harbored, and to demand the exhibition by the owner of such dog or cat. The
officer may demand, at the front door of any residence, exhibition by the owner
of current dog or cat licenses at any time. (1994 Code § 4-165; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   The animal control or health officer, in the manner authorized by law,
may enter the premises where any animal is kept in a reportedly cruel or
inhumane manner and demand to examine such animal, and to take possession of
such animal when, in his opinion, it requires humane treatment. (1994 Code § 4-
165)
6-4-13: RECORDS KEPT:
   The animal control officer shall keep or cause to be kept an accurate and
detailed record of the licensing, impounding and disposition of all animals
coming into his custody, and an accurate and detailed record of all bite cases
reported to the town, with a complete report of the investigation of each case.
(1994 Code § 4-166)
6-4-14: PENALTY:
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1994 Code § 4-171)
6-4-15: MINIATURE GOATS:
   A.   The owner or primary occupant of any dwelling may be permitted to keep
on the lot containing the dwelling no more than three (3) and no fewer than two
(2) goats. Offspring shall be rehomed within twelve (12) weeks of birth if
their presence caused an excess of three (3) goats on a property.
   B.   Male goats must be neutered/castrated. No intact male goats (bucks)
allowed in town limits.
   C.   Up-to-date vaccinations and de-worming records must be provided to the
town upon request.
   D.   Goats must be provided shelter in the form of a shed or barn and proper
fencing. The shelter should be at least ten (10) square feet per goat. The
fenced area should be at least two hundred (200) square feet per goat,
surrounded by four foot (4') minimum fencing. The fencing must be sturdy and
able to contain the goats. The shelter and fenced area should be at least fifty
foot (50') from neighboring houses or building without written consent. No
enclosure should be located in the front yard of a dwelling.
   E.   Regular clean out and removal of manure and wet or soiled bedding is
required. (Ord. 2020-001, 2-3-2020)
6-4-16: KEEPING OF HENS:
   A.   The owner or primary occupant of any dwelling may be permitted to keep
on the lot containing the dwelling no more than twelve (12) hens (female
chicken).
   B.   No person shall keep any rooster (male chicken).
   C.   The hens shall be provided with a clean, covered, well-ventilated
enclosure that is secure from predators and is cleaned regularly to prevent the
accumulation of animal waste, feathers, and uneaten food;
   D.   The hens must always be kept in a covered enclosure or within a fenced
area;
   E.   No enclosure for the hens shall be located closer than fifteen feet
(15') to an occupied residential dwelling on an adjoining lot;
   F.   No part of the enclosure or coop for hens shall be located in the front
yard of a dwelling. (Ord. 2020-001, 2-3-2020)
***** CHAPTER 5
GENERAL OFFENSES *****
SECTION:
6-5-1: Attempts To Commit An Offense
6-5-2: Conspiracy To Commit An Offense
6-5-3: Capacity To Commit An Offense
6-5-4: Lawful Use Of Force
6-5-5: Intoxication No Defense
6-5-6: Witness, Self-Incrimination
6-5-7: Time Limit On Actions
6-5-1: ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE:
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
town, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense, and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the attempted
offense itself. (1994 Code § 10-101)
6-5-2: CONSPIRACY TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE:
   Any two (2) or more persons assembled or who shall assemble with the intent
to mutually agree to do any unlawful act with force or violence and shall make
any movement therefor against the property of the town or the person or
property of another, shall be guilty of an offense. (1994 Code § 10-110)
6-5-3: CAPACITY TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE:
   All persons are capable of committing an offense as herein provided, except
those belonging to the following classes:
   A.   Children under the age of seven (7) years;
   B.   Children over the age of seven (7) years, but under the age of fourteen
(14) years, in the absence of proof that at the time of committing the act or
neglect charged against them, they knew its wrongfulness;
   C.   Persons who are impaired by reason of mental retardation upon proof
that at the time of committing the act charged against them they were incapable
of knowing its wrongfulness;
   D.   Mentally ill persons, and all persons of unsound mind, including
persons temporarily or partially deprived of reason, upon proof that at the
time of committing the act charged against them they were incapable of knowing
its wrongfulness;
   E.   Persons who committed the act, or made the omission charged, under
ignorance or mistake of fact which disproves any criminal intent. But ignorance
of the law does not excuse the person from punishment for violation;
   F.   Persons who committed the act charged without being conscious thereof;
and
   G.   Persons who committed the act, or made the omission charged, while
under involuntary subjection to the power of superiors. (1994 Code § 10-106;
amd. 2004 Code)
6-5-4: LAWFUL USE OF FORCE:
   A.   To use or to attempt to offer to use force upon or toward the person of
another is not unlawful in the town in the following cases:
      1.   When necessarily committed by a public officer in the performance of
any legal duty, or by any other person assisting him or acting by his
direction;
      2.   When necessarily committed by any person in arresting one who has
committed any felony, and delivering him to a public officer competent to
receive him into custody;
      3.   When committed either by the party about to be injured, or by any
other person in his aid or defense, in preventing or attempting to prevent an
offense against his person, or any trespass or other unlawful interference with
real or personal property in his lawful possession, provided the force used is
not more than sufficient to prevent such offense;
      4.   When committed by a parent or authorized agent of any parent, or by
any guardian, master or teacher, in the exercise of a lawful authority to
restrain or correct his child, ward, apprentice or scholar, provided restraint
or correction has been rendered necessary by the misconduct of such child,
ward, apprentice or scholar, or by his refusal to obey the lawful command of
such parent or authorized agent or guardian, master or teacher, and the force
used is reasonable in manner and moderate in degree;
      5.   When committed by a carrier of passengers, or the authorized agents
or servants of such carrier, or by any person assisting him at his request, in
expelling from any carriage, interurban car, vessel or other vehicle, any
passenger who refuses to obey a lawful and reasonable regulation prescribed for
the conduct of passengers, if such vehicle has first been stopped and the force
used is not more than is sufficient to expel the offending passenger, with a
reasonable regard to his personal safety; and
      6.   When committed by any person in preventing a person who is impaired
by reason of "mental retardation" or "developmental disability" as defined by
state law, a mentally ill person, insane person or other person of unsound
mind, including persons temporarily or partially deprived of reason, from
committing an act dangerous to himself or to another, or enforcing such
restraint as is necessary for the protection of his person or for his
restoration to health, during such period only as shall be necessary to obtain
legal authority for the restraint or custody of such person.
   B.   Where force is permitted to effect a lawful purpose, only that degree
of force necessary to effect such purpose shall be used. (1994 Code § 10-112;
amd. 2004 Code)
6-5-5: INTOXICATION NO DEFENSE:
   No act committed by any person while in a state of intoxication, whether
from liquor or drugs, shall be deemed less an offense by reason of his being in
such condition. (1994 Code § 10-107)
6-5-6: WITNESS, SELF-INCRIMINATION:
   No person shall be excused from giving evidence upon any investigation or
prosecution for any of the offenses specified in any section, chapter or title
of this code or any ordinances hereafter enacted, upon the grounds that such
testimony or evidence might tend to convict him of a crime. But such answer or
evidence shall not be received against him upon any criminal proceeding or
prosecution, except in a prosecution against him for perjury committed in
giving such testimony. (2004 Code)
6-5-7: TIME LIMIT ON ACTIONS:
   The time within which a charge may be filed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be one year from the date of the commission or omission or in
cases involving fraud, deception or deceit, one year from the discovery of the
fraud, deception or deceit unless otherwise provided by the statutes of the
state. (1994 Code § 10-111)
**** ARTICLE A. OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY ****
SECTION:
6-5A-1: Theft And Related Offenses
6-5A-2: Harmful Deception
6-5A-3: Damage To Property
6-5A-4: Taking Or Tampering With Vehicles
6-5A-5: Tampering With Or Damaging Utilities
6-5A-6: Trespassing And Related Offenses
6-5A-7: Throwing Or Shooting Objects
6-5A-8: Throwing Lighted Or Flammable Materials
6-5A-9: Littering; Unlawful Deposits
6-5A-10: Posting Advertising
6-5A-11: Interference With Wireless Reception
6-5A-12: Electric Fences
6-5A-13: Fireworks
6-5A-14: Nuisance Conditions
6-5A-1: THEFT AND RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Petty Larceny; Embezzlement: No person shall steal, take and carry away
by fraud or stealth, with intent to deprive another thereof, any personal
property under the value of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or embezzle any
money, personal property or effects of another under the value of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00). Any person found to have violated this section shall be
subject to a fine or deferral fee not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00).
   B.   Larceny By False Pretense: No person shall induce, or attempt to
induce, any person to give up or pay over any money or other thing of value,
which money or value does not exceed fifty dollars ($50.00), by any false
representation or pretense, or in exchange for any false or bogus coin or
check, draft or other false evidence of value, or in consideration of
refraining from a lawful or unlawful arrest, or in consideration of refraining
from reporting any unlawful act to any public official.
   C.   Altering Keys: No person shall make or alter or attempt to make or
alter any key or other instrument that will open the lock of a building unless
requested to do so by a person having the right and authority to make such
request.
   D.   Possession Of Stolen Property: No person shall keep in his possession,
or dispose of, or conceal any stolen property, or fail promptly to inform some
proper official of the possession thereof, under circumstances indicating that
such property had been stolen or the possession thereof obtained unlawfully.
   E.   Defrauding Public Accommodations:
      1.   No person shall obtain food, lodging or other accommodation in any
hotel, motel, boarding, eating or rooming house or place, or any other lodging
place, with the intent to defraud the owner or keeper.
      2.   Proof that lodging, food and other accommodations were obtained by
false pretense or fictitious show of any package or other property or that the
person gave a check or negotiable paper on which payment was refused or that
the person left the hotel, motel, inn, boarding, eating or rooming house or
place, or other lodging place, without paying or offering to pay for the food,
lodging or other accommodation or that the person surreptitiously removed or
attempted to remove the package or property, or that the person registered
under a fictitious name shall be prima facie proof of attempt to defraud.
      3.   This subsection shall not apply where there has been an agreement in
writing for delay in payment.
   F.   Failure To Pay Conveyance Fare:
      1.   No person shall use or accept the use and services of any streetcar,
taxicab, omnibus, automobile or any other means of public conveyance or
passengers, operating under this code or any ordinance, franchise, permit or
license of the town or state, and refuse or fail to pay to the operator of the
conveyance the usual, customary regulation or legal charge, or price of fare
immediately upon the performance of the service.
      2.   No person shall refuse to pay the legal fare of any of the vehicles
mentioned in this subsection after having hired the same, and no person shall
hire any vehicle with intent to defraud the person from whom it is hired of the
value of such service.
      3.   This subsection shall not apply where there has been an agreement in
writing for delay in payment.
   G.   Shoplifting: Any person concealing unpurchased merchandise of any
establishment, either on the premises or outside the premises of the
establishment, shall be presumed to have so concealed the merchandise with the
intention of committing a wrongful taking of such merchandise. Such concealment
or the finding of such unpurchased merchandise concealed upon the person or
among the belongings of such person shall be conclusive evidence of reasonable
grounds and probable cause for the detention in a reasonable manner and for a
reasonable length of time of such person by a merchant, his agent or employee.
Any such reasonable detention shall not be deemed to be unlawful nor render any
such merchant, his agent or employee, criminally or civilly liable.
   H.   False Or Bogus Checks: It is unlawful for any person, with intent to
cheat and defraud, to obtain or attempt to obtain from any person any money,
property or valuable thing by means of any false or bogus check or by any other
written or printed or engraved instrument or spurious coin. The term “false or
bogus check” shall include checks or orders given for money or property which
are not honored on account of insufficient funds of the maker to pay same, or
because the check or order was drawn on a closed account or on a nonexistent
account when such checks or orders are given in exchange for money or property
or in exchange for any benefit or thing of value, as against the maker or
drawer thereof. The making, drawing, issuing or delivering of a check, draft or
order, payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence
of intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient funds in or credit with,
such bank or other depository. Such maker or drawer shall not have paid the
drawee the amount due thereon, together with the protest fees, within five (5)
days from the date the same is presented for payment, and the check or order
shall be presented for payment within thirty (30) days after same is delivered
and accepted.
   I.   False Weights: It is unlawful for any person to sell any commodity or
article of merchandise and, in the sale thereof, knowingly make or give a false
or short weight therefor, or for any person owning or keeping or having in his
charge any scale used in weighing any animal, commodity or article to knowingly
and wilfully report any false or untrue weight whereby another person shall be
defrauded or damaged. (1994 Code §§  10-301 - 10-308 , and 10-326; amd. 2004
Code; Ord. 2025-02, 1-6-2025)
6-5A-2: HARMFUL DECEPTION:
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or of
a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(1994 Code § 10-309)
6-5A-3: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
   A.   Prohibited Generally:
      1.   No person shall purposely deface or damage any public or private
building or appurtenances thereof, or any fence, street, bridge, sidewalk,
driveway, or public work.
      2.   No person shall:
         a.   Destroy, injure, deface, damage or molest any structure,
building, work or other property, real or personal, belonging to another;
         b.   Use such property wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or
other person entitled to its use; or
         c.   Interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its
owner or any other person entitled to its use. (1994 Code § 10-310)
   B.   Private Property:
      1.   No person shall wilfully, unlawfully or maliciously take and carry
or cause to be taken and carried away any part of a house, barn, fence, gate or
other structure, or maliciously break, tear down or destroy any part of a
house, barn or other structure not his own. (1994 Code § 10-311)
      2.   No person shall wilfully and wantonly damage or destroy the personal
property of another. (1994 Code § 10-312)
   C.   Destroying Trees And Shrubbery:
      1.   Private Property: No person shall wilfully, maliciously and without
lawful authority cut down, root up, sever, injure or destroy any fruit tree,
shade or ornamental tree, cultivated root or plant, grape or strawberry vine,
shrub or plant whatsoever standing on or attached to the land of another, or
pick, destroy, carry away therefrom, or in any way interfere therewith, any of
the fruit thereof.
      2.   Public Property: No person shall wilfully or without lawful
authority cut down, destroy, root up or in any manner injure any fruit, shade
or ornamental tree, shrub or vine planted or growing on any street, land,
avenue, alley or other public ground of the town. (1994 Code § 10-316)
6-5A-4: TAKING OR TAMPERING WITH VEHICLES:
   A.   No person, other than a peace officer in the performance of his
official duties, shall, with intent and without right to do so, injure or
tamper with any vehicle or in any other manner damage any part or portion of
the vehicle or any accessories, appurtenances or attachments thereto.
   B.   No person, other than a peace officer in the performance of his
official duties, shall, without right to do so and with intent to commit a
crime, climb into or upon a vehicle, whether it is in motion or at rest,
attempt to manipulate any of the levers, starting mechanism, brakes or other
mechanism or device of the vehicle while the vehicle is at rest and unattended,
or set in motion any vehicle while the vehicle is at rest and unattended 1 .
(1994 Code § 10-314)
 
Notes
1    See also subsection
  7-6-2C of this code.
6-5A-5: TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING UTILITIES:
   A.   Wires, Pipes And Poles: No person shall alter, remove, tamper with,
molest, damage or injure any wire, cable, appurtenance, structure, pipe or
equipment of any utility of the town, or any public utility, or connect or
tamper with the wires, cables or pipes of any electric, water 2 , sewer, cable
television or gas utility of the town without consent of the utility or town
having been first obtained.
   B.   Manholes: It is unlawful to open up any manhole or opening to a sewer
unless authorized by the town, or to leave a manhole or other opening so opened
without replacing the fixture or appliances to their proper place and position.
   C.   Fire Hydrants:
      1.   No person, except a member of the fire department or a person acting
on lawful order or permit issued by the town, shall open or use water from any
fire hydrant or take off the caps or damage the same.
      2.   No person may block the approach or access to a fire hydrant3 or
attach, fasten, stand or brace anything against or on the hydrant.
   D.   Intercepting Service:
      1.   No person shall in any manner whatsoever:
         a.   Cut into, attach to or intercept the wires, cables or pipes of
any electric, water, cable television or gas utility or of the town for the
purpose of fraudulently taking therefrom electric current, water, transmissions
or gas;
         b.   Cut into, attach to or intercept the wires, cables or pipes for
the purpose of conducting around any meter the electric current, water or gas
in order to prevent the current, water or gas from being measured by the meter,
or in such other manner so as to consume or use the utility or cable service so
as to evade payment therefor, with the unlawful intent to defraud the company
or town out of the value of the service; or
         c.   By any device or manipulation whatsoever to cause current,
transmissions, water or gas used upon any premises to be fraudulently conveyed
upon any premises for the purpose of use thereof, and with the intent to
defraud and cheat the utility or town from payment thereof.
      2.   Each day that any person maintains any such fraudulent connection
with any wires, cables or pipes, or fraudulently takes from any such wires,
cables or pipes either electric current, transmissions, water or gas shall
constitute a separate offense. (1994 Code § 10-315)
 
Notes
2    See also section
  9-3-8 of this code.
6-5A-6: TRESPASSING AND RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Trespassing:
      1.   Definition: “Trespass” shall include each and every actual entry
upon the premises of an owner or other person in lawful possession of the
premises without the express consent of the owner or other person in lawful
possession. “Trespass” shall also mean remaining upon the premises of an owner
or other person in lawful possession after having been told to leave the
premises by the owner, or the agent or employee of the owner, or other person
in lawful possession of the premises. “Trespass” shall also mean the act of
entering upon or remaining on private property when such is plainly forbidden
by signs, markings, or otherwise, by verbal command of the owner, his agent, or
employee, or after having been directed to do so by a police officer, although
this sentence shall not apply to persons, including employees, whose presence
upon the premises is authorized by the owner or by a person in lawful
possession of such premises. “Trespass” shall also include the act of returning
to private property after having been directed to vacate the premises by the
owner, his agent, employee or police officer under the terms of this
subsection.
      2.   Prohibition: It is unlawful and an offense for any person to commit
a trespass within the town upon either public or private property.
      3.   Violations:
         a.   Any of the following acts by any person shall be deemed a
violation of this subsection:
            (1)   The doing of an injury or misfeasance to the person of
another;
            (2)   The doing of any injury or misfeasance to the property of
another when done with force and violence, either actual or implied;
            (3)   Each and every actual entry upon the premises of another
owner or person in possession of real property, whether the property is public
or private, without the owner's or occupant's consent, express or implied;
            (4)   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another
in violation of a notice exhibited thereon prohibiting entry at specified
times;
            (5)   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another
in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing by
any owner or other lawful occupant thereof;
            (6)   An entry upon any public property, including parks or parking
areas, in violation of a notice exhibited there prohibiting entry at specified
times;
            (7)   An entry upon any public property in violation of any notice,
warning or protest given orally or in writing by a town official;
            (8)   If on the property of another, or upon public property
lawfully, a failure or refusal to depart in case of being requested to so
depart orally or written, by any owner, lawful occupant, or by a town official;
            (9)   An entry upon any portion of a public park, where the entry
involves the use of any vehicle, equipment or device where such use is
specifically prohibited;
            (10)   An entry of any public building except for the purpose of
dispatching business with the public corporation or consent is obtained from
the town board of trustees or other public official which is lawfully
authorized to give consent; or
            (11)   Remaining on public or private property at any time other
than during posted hours of business operation after having been directed to
vacate such premises by a police officer. The provisions of this subsection A3a
(11) shall not apply to persons, including employees, whose presence upon such
premises is authorized by the owner or by a person in lawful possession of such
premises; nor shall the provisions of this subsection A3a(11) apply, unless
hours of business operation are posted upon such premises. “Trespass” also
includes the act of returning to private property before the posted time of
opening for business operation on the next business day after having been
directed to vacate such premises under the terms of this subsection A3a(11).
         b.   For purposes of constituting a violation of this subsection, the
exhibited notice required under subsections A3a(4), A3a(5), A3a(6), A3a(7) and
A3a(9) of this section shall meet the following criteria:
            (1)   The notice shall be plainly posted in a place or places
conspicuous to those who would enter the property;
            (2)   The notice shall be legible so as to afford reasonable
warning prior to the commission of a trespass; and
            (3)   If upon property to which the public is invited at least some
part of the day, the notice shall clearly specify the days and times of day
entry is prohibited, and further specify that entry at such times constitutes a
punishable offense under the town code. (1994 Code § 10-317)
   B.   Intrusion On Land Or Structures:
      1.   No person shall intrude or remain upon any lot or piece of land or
in any building within the town without license or authority from the owner
thereof, or erect or occupy thereon any structure whatsoever without such
license or authority.
      2.   No person shall place, erect or occupy within the bounds of any
street, alley or avenue of the town any structure whatsoever, unless such
person is granted a license by the town to do so. (1994 Code § 10-319)
   C.   Congregating, Parking On Premises After Business Hours 1 :
      1.   Definitions: When used in this subsection, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as follows:
         AFTER BUSINESS HOURS: The doors of the business which are open to the
public during business hours are closed and locked, and the business is no
longer admitting customers. The term applies to places of business which are
vacant or permanently or temporarily closed or otherwise unoccupied.
         PLACE OF BUSINESS: Any private property upon which a building, house
or other structure is used for commercial or public purposes, e.g., without
limitation, restaurants, gas stations, shopping malls or centers, theaters,
convenience stores, grocery stores, drugstores or pharmacies, recreational
facilities, wholesale or retail sales activities, offices, banks or other
financial institutions, manufacturing, and professional services (medical,
legal, accounting, insurance, consulting).
      2.   Prohibitions:
         a.   No person shall stand, walk, sit, lie, congregate or otherwise
occupy or remain upon the premises of any place or business within the town
after business hours without consent of the lawful owner, occupant, lessee or
employee thereof.
         b.   No person shall stop, stand, park, leave, or place any motor
vehicle, whether occupied or not, upon any public or private property without
the consent of the owner, occupant, lessee or employee thereof, except where
such property is provided for public parking and the use for such parking is
not restricted by proper notice. In addition to fine or other punishment for a
violation of this subsection, the vehicle so parked, left or placed shall be
subject to impoundment upon complaint of the property owner or lawful occupant.
The person violating this subsection shall be wholly responsible for payment of
towage and storage charges.
      3.   Sign Posted: No person may be charged under this subsection unless
the premises in question is posted with a conspicuous sign which states,
substantially, that the premises are posted, and that any person congregating,
occupying or remaining upon the premises or parking or leaving a motor vehicle
thereon, is subject to prosecution pursuant to the town code.
      4.   Presumption: There is a rebuttable presumption that any person or
motor vehicle upon the premises of a place of business that is properly posted
pursuant to this subsection after such time as the front door or other such
door that admits members of the public is closed and locked is on the premises
of such business unlawfully under this subsection; however, this presumption
shall not be applied within thirty (30) minutes of any opening or closing times
posted by such place of business. This presumption may only be rebutted by
proof beyond a reasonable doubt that any person held by the municipal judge to
be subject to this rebuttable presumption was on the premises in question with
permission of the lawful owner, occupant, lessee or employee thereof.
      5.   Prima Facie Proof: If a motor vehicle is alleged to be unlawfully
parked or left under this subsection, it shall be rebuttably presumed that the
person in whose name the motor vehicle was last registered was the person who
parked or left the motor vehicle.
      6.   Violation; Penalty:
         a.   The parking or leaving of a motor vehicle as set forth herein
shall constitute the offense of unlawful parking or leaving a motor vehicle
after business hours, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
         b.   If a person violates subsection C2a of this section, it shall
constitute the offense of unlawful presence on property after business hours or
congregating after business hours and is punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      7.   Provisions Cumulative: The provisions of this subsection are
cumulative with other applicable offenses enacted in this code or state law.
(1994 Code § 10-318)
   D.   Sleeping; Hours Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person, without
lawful reason, to sleep on any street, in any other public place, or on any
property of another without the expressed or tacit consent of the owner or
person in charge of such place. (1994 Code § 10-515; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1    See also subsections
  7-6-4C and D of this code.
6-5A-7: THROWING OR SHOOTING OBJECTS:
   No person shall throw or shoot any object into or across any street or
alley, or in any place where he is likely to hit another person wrongfully, or
injure property, or to throw any object at any person, vehicle, structure, or
property of another, whether public or private, except where such is done in
defense of oneself or another person or property. (1994 Code § 10-320)
6-5A-8: THROWING LIGHTED OR FLAMMABLE MATERIALS:
   No person shall throw, drop, deposit or otherwise place in, upon or within
the limits of any street, avenue, public ground, public waterway or town owned
property or waterway any lighted cigarette, cigar or other flaming or glowing
substances, or any substance or thing which may cause a fire. (1994 Code § 10-
321)
6-5A-9: LITTERING; UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS 1 :
   It is unlawful to throw, deposit or discharge any item or waste material,
liquid or solid, on any street or public place in the town or upon the property
of another without express authority to do so. (1994 Code § 10-322)
 
Notes
1    See also section
  5-1-1 of this code.
6-5A-10: POSTING ADVERTISING:
   A.   No person shall place upon any building any advertising matter of any
kind, nor print or exhibit printing on a building or any part thereof, in
words, signs or characters, except with the express consent of the owner,
lessee or authorized agent of the owner of the building.
   B.   No person shall place, post, paint, mark, write, print or put any sign,
poster, picture, announcement, writing, device, advertisement or other marking
upon any public or private building, fence, sidewalk, bridge, post, automobile
or vehicle or property of another without the consent of the owner or person in
charge thereof. (1994 Code § 10-323)
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to place any advertising matter of any
kind on any utility pole, or to place any advertising on the streets or
sidewalks of the town or to place any advertising on any signs or banners
stretched over the streets or sidewalks of the town. Nothing herein shall be
construed to prevent any permanently located commercial or business
establishment in the town from erecting and maintaining business or commercial
signs in accordance with the ordinances of the town, nor to prohibit the
granting of permission by the town to religious, charitable, patriotic or civic
bodies to use banners across the streets of the town in such places as may be
designated by the town clerk-treasurer for the observance of holidays,
charitable drives and the commemoration and celebration of other public or
civic occasions. (1994 Code § 10-324)
6-5A-11: INTERFERENCE WITH WIRELESS RECEPTION 1 :
   It is unlawful for any person, or any officer or employee of any person, to
operate or use any citizen band radio, ham radio or other electrical apparatus
or machine which materially and unduly interferes with radio, television or
telephone reception of others. (1994 Code § 10-325)
 
Notes
1    See also subsection
  5-2-3A7 of this code.
6-5A-12: ELECTRIC FENCES:
   It is unlawful for any person to erect, install or maintain any electrically
charged fence within the town; except, that the code enforcement officer may
issue a permit for an electrically charged fence to retain animals upon proof
that the fence will not be hazardous to life, and upon proof that the electric
charge is regulated by a controlling device. (1994 Code § 10-327; amd. 2004
Code)
6-5A-13: FIREWORKS:
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, firm or corporation to
sell or have in his possession or to discharge, ignite or in any manner aid,
assist or abet in the discharging or igniting of any firecrackers of any size,
type or description, skyrockets, pistols, torpedoes, Roman candles, flash
salutes, flash rockets, balloons or other fireworks or substances designed and
intended for pyrotechnic display, also other appliances using caps containing
chlorate or potash mixture within the town limits, and this section shall be in
effect at all times within the town. (Ord. 117, 8-1-1994)
6-5A-14: NUISANCE CONDITIONS:
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to permit, maintain, aid, abet,
or sanction a nuisance on or about any premises owned by him or under his
control at any place within the corporate limits of the town. (1994 Code § 10-
109)
**** ARTICLE B. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE ****
SECTION:
6-5B-1: Assault And Battery
6-5B-2: Reckless Conduct In Possession Of Weapons
6-5B-3: Disturbing The Peace
6-5B-4: Disturbing Funerals
6-5B-5: Disorderly Conduct
6-5B-6: Noisy Conditions
6-5B-7: Burglary, Robbery And Fire Alarm Code
6-5B-7-1: Purpose And Scope
6-5B-7-2: Definitions
6-5B-7-3: Alarm User Permits Required
6-5B-7-4: Alarm Business
6-5B-7-5: Automatic Dialing Device; Certain Interconnections Prohibited
6-5B-7-6: False Alarms; User Fee And Permit Revocation
6-5B-7-7: Enforcement And Penalties
6-5B-1: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
   A.   Definitions:
   ASSAULT: Any wilful and unlawful attempt or offer with force or violence to
do corporal hurt to another.
   BATTERY: Any wilful and unlawful use of force or violence upon the person of
another. (1994 Code §§ 10-202, 10-203)
   B.   Prohibition: No person shall commit an assault or battery, or both,
upon the person of another. (1994 Code § 10-201)
6-5B-2: RECKLESS CONDUCT IN POSSESSION OF WEAPONS:
   A.   Definition: "Reckless conduct", as used in this section, consists of an
act which creates a situation of unreasonable risk and probability of death or
great bodily harm to another and which demonstrates a conscious disregard for
the safety of another.
   B.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person to endanger another's safety
by reckless conduct in the operation or handling of any weapon or instrument,
including a pistol, revolver or other firearm. (1994 Code § 10-204)
6-5B-3: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   A.   Definition: "Disturbing the peace" is the doing of any of the following
in such a manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the peace of another or
others:
      1.   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent or insulting language or conduct;
      2.   Appearing in an intoxicated condition;
      3.   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
      4.   Lewdly exposing one's person, or private parts thereof, in any
public place or in any place where there are present other persons to be
offended or annoyed thereby;
      5.   Pointing any pistol or any other deadly weapon, whether loaded or
not, at any other person or persons either in anger or otherwise; (1994 Code §
10-401)
      6.   Holding an unlawful assembly of three (3) or more persons, including
being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful act against
the peace or to the terror of others or preparing for or moving toward such
acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously; (1994 Code § 10-401;
amd. 2004 Code)
      7.   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise, by rude,
indecent or improper behavior, by profane, improper or loud language, or in any
other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing distance
thereof;
      8.   Obstructing the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles on a street,
right of way or sidewalk, or other public place;
      9.   Obstructing, molesting or interfering with any person lawfully in a
public place;
      10.   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises;
      11.   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship by making noise, by rude, indecent or improper behavior, by
profane, improper or loud language, or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof; or
      12.   Committing any other act in such a manner calculated as to
unreasonably disturb, interfere or alarm the public or the comfort and repose
of any person.
   B.   Prohibition: It is unlawful to disturb or alarm the peace of another or
others by doing any of the acts set out in subsection A of this section.
   C.   Enforcement: Whenever any police officer shall, in the exercise of
reasonable judgment, decide that the presence of any person in any public place
is causing any of the conditions enumerated in subsection A of this section, he
may, if he deems it necessary for the preservation of the public peace and
safety, order that person to leave that place; and any person who shall refuse
to leave after being ordered to do so by a police officer shall be guilty of a
violation of this section.
   D.   Exemptions From Provisions: This section shall not apply to peaceful
picketing, public speaking or other lawful expressions of opinion not in
contravention of other laws. (1994 Code § 10-401)
6-5B-4: DISTURBING FUNERALS 1 :
   No person shall wilfully disturb, interrupt or disquiet any assemblage of
people who have met for the purpose of any funeral, or obstruct or detain any
person engaged in accompanying any funeral procession to a place of burial.
(1994 Code § 10-402)
 
Notes
1 See section
  7-5-13 of this code for additional regulations.
6-5B-5: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
   A person shall be guilty of disorderly conduct if, with the intent to cause
public inconvenience, annoyance, alarm or recklessly creating the risk thereof,
he:
   A.   Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby any
person is placed in fear of safety of his life, limb or health;
   B.   Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby the
property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged;
   C.   Endangers the lawful pursuits of another by acts of violence, angry
threats and abusive conduct;
   D.   Jostles or crowds or pushes any person in any public place;
   E.   Uses "fighting words" directed toward any person and thus creates a
turmoil;
   F.   Causes, provokes or engages in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so
as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another; or
   G.   By acts of violence, interferes with another's pursuit of a lawful
occupation. (1994 Code § 10-403)
6-5B-6: NOISY CONDITIONS 1 :
   No person shall make, continue or cause to be made or continued any
excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud noise or any noise which annoys,
disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of
others, within the limits of the town. Permits may be granted by the town for
certain activities and events which are exempt from the provisions of this
section. (1994 Code § 10-404)
 
Notes
1 See also subsection
  5-2-3A6 of this code.
6-5B-7: BURGLARY, ROBBERY AND FIRE ALARM CODE:
6-5B-7-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   The purpose of this section
6-5B-7 is to enhance and protect the emergency services of the town of Wayne.
   B.   This section
6-5B-7 governs burglary, robbery and fire alarm systems, requires permits,
establishes fees, provides for revocation of permits, provides for punishment
of violations and establishes a system of administration.
   C.   The provisions of this section
6-5B-7 shall apply only to systems located in the town. (Ord. 6-5B-6B, 5-5-
2009)
6-5B-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
   ALARM ADMINISTRATOR: The town clerk, or his/her designee, who is to perform
and administer functions of this section
6-5B-7.
   ALARM BUSINESS OR ALARM INDUSTRY: The business by any individual,
partnership, corporation, or other entity of selling, leasing, maintaining,
servicing, repairing, altering, replacing, moving or installing any alarm
system or causing to be sold, leased, maintained, serviced, repaired, altered,
replaced or installed any alarm system in or on any building, structure or
facility. This does not include any person who installs his own alarm on his
own property to protect his own personal property.
   ALARM SYSTEM: One or more devices designed to detect and signal unauthorized
intrusion, entry, robbery, fire or other emergency condition, which signals are
responded to by public law enforcement officer, fire department personnel,
private security guards or security officers. This provision excludes systems
installed within motor vehicles.
   ALARM USER: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, or organization in control of any building, structure or facility
wherein an alarm system is maintained.
   AUDIBLE ALARM SYSTEM: An alarm system not interconnected to an alarm
business or the police service communication center, but is activated by
sounding a bell, siren, or other device that makes an audible or visual signal
at the location protected by the alarm system, indicating a need for police,
fire or other emergency response. This provision excludes alarm systems
installed within motor vehicles.
   BURGLARY ALARM SYSTEM: An alarm system signaling entry or attempted entry
into the area protected by the alarm system.
   ENHANCED 9-1-1 SYSTEMS: An emergency phone system which is designed to
receive emergency phone calls by dialing the three (3) digit number 9-1-1. The
system places the person requesting emergency service in touch with fire,
police and ambulance services by dialing a single number.
   FALSE ALARMS: The activation of a burglary, robbery, fire or other alarm for
the purpose of summoning emergency assistance or which causes the police or
fire department to be summoned, at a time when no emergency exists. False
alarms include those caused by:
      A.   Error Or Mistake: Any action by any person, firm, corporation or
other entity or agent thereof, owning or operating any dwelling, building or
place which results in the activation of any alarm system when no emergency
exists;
      B.   Malfunction: Any activation of an alarm system caused by a flaw in
the normal operation, design, installation, maintenance of the system, faulty
equipment, change in environment or premises upon or within which the alarm
system is operating;
      C.   Intentional Misuse: Any intentional activation of an alarm system
when no burglary, robbery, vandalism, fire or other emergency is in progress.
This subsection shall not apply to testing during installation and regular
maintenance when the user notifies the police service in advance and receives
permission for the test;
      D.   Exceptions: An alarm will not be considered a false alarm if it is
determined that the alarm was the result of:
         1.   Natural or manmade catastrophe or an act of God. Such events
include tornados, floods or other similarly violent conditions;
         2.   Vandalism causing physical damage to the premises;
         3.   Attempted entry of a location causing visible, physical or other
evidence of damage to the location;
         4.   Severe weather causing physical damage to the premises; or
         5.   If the alarm user calls the police service and cancels the alarm
before the police respond by using his personal identification number assigned
when their alarm permit was issued.
   FIRE ALARM SYSTEM: Any assembly of equipment, mechanical or electrical,
arranged to signal the occurrence of fire or other activity requiring urgent
attention and to which the fire department personnel are expected to respond.
This provision excludes alarm systems installed within motor vehicles.
   INTERCONNECT: To connect an alarm system including an automatic dialing
device to a telephone, for the purpose of using the telephone line to transmit
a message upon the activation of the alarm system.
   ROBBERY ALARM SYSTEM: An alarm system signaling a robbery or attempted
robbery.
   TELEPHONE DIALING SERVICE: A device which is interconnected to a telephone
line and is programmed to select a predetermined number and transmit by voice
message or code signal an emergency message indicating a need for police, fire
or medical responses.
   USER FEE: The amount assessed to alarm users for false alarm responses in
excess of the maximum number allowed in any one calendar year. (Ord. 6-5B-6B,
5-5-2009)
6-5B-7-3: ALARM USER PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Every alarm user shall obtain a onetime alarm user's permit for each
type of alarm, from the alarm administrator or his designee, upon the effective
date of this section
6-5B-7, and prior to the use of the alarm. Application for a burglary, robbery,
holdup or fire alarm user's permit and a fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) for
each type of system at each residence, business, or other facility, except as
excluded by this article, shall be filed with the town clerk each calendar
year. The permit application shall include information as to the number of and
type of alarms installed, alarm company providing the service, monitoring agent
and numbers to be called in the event an alarm should occur. Permits are also
required for audible alarms and alarms with automatic dialing services
attached. This provision does not pertain to alarm systems installed within
motor vehicles. Each approved application and permit shall bear the signature
of the alarm administrator or his designee.
   B.   A twenty dollar ($20.00) charge will be added to the fee provided for
in subsection A of this section if a user fails to obtain a permit upon
installation of an alarm system.
   C.   An alarm user which is a governmental unit, and persons sixty two (62)
years of age or older, whose alarm system is installed on their permanent
residential property, shall be subject to the provisions of this article; but a
permit will be issued without payment of the fee provided for in subsection A
of this section.
   D.   Every alarm user shall display the permit sticker(s) on the front of
their residence, business or other facility so that it will be available for
inspection any time of the night or day. (Ord. 6-5B-6B, 5-5-2009)
6-5B-7-4: ALARM BUSINESS:
   A.   Every alarm business selling, leasing or furnishing to any user an
alarm system which is installed on the user's premises shall furnish the user
with instructions that provide adequate information to enable the user to
operate the alarm system properly and to obtain service for the alarm system.
   B.   No business or individuals shall operate within the town limits who
offer alarm equipment for sale or lease, installation, maintenance, alteration,
repair, replacement or service without a state license, as required by 59
Oklahoma Statutes section 1800.6.
   C.   Every business providing any of the following alarm services: selling,
installing, repairing, modifying, maintenance, or system monitoring, shall be
required to register with the town each calendar year. The registration shall
have the names, addresses, phone numbers and copies of state license of the
company or individual providing alarm service to the user. If monitoring
services are provided the alarm company must provide a twenty four (24) hour
per day phone number. Failure to register with the town of Wayne shall
constitute a violation of this section
6-5B-7. (Ord. 6-5B-6B, 5-5-2009)
6-5B-7-5: AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE; CERTAIN INTERCONNECTIONS PROHIBITED:
   It is unlawful for any person to program an automatic dialing service to any
telephone line which when activated dials the digits 9-1-1. When their permit
is issued, the alarm user will be given a phone number to be programmed into
their system which goes directly to the police service communication center. It
is unlawful for an alarm user to fail to disconnect or reprogram an automatic
dialing device which is programmed to dial 9-1-1 or whose permit has been
revoked, after receiving notice from the alarm administrator, fire or police
personnel. (Ord. 6-5B-6B, 5-5-2009)
6-5B-7-6: FALSE ALARMS; USER FEE AND PERMIT REVOCATION:
   A.   When records indicate ten (10) false alarms within one calendar year,
the alarm administrator shall notify the alarm user by mail of the number of
false alarms on record. The alarm user will also be notified that for the
remainder of the calendar year responses to "false alarms" as defined in
section
6-5B-7-2 of this article will result in the alarm user being billed twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per response. If the amount billed the alarm user for
emergency responses to false alarms is not paid within thirty (30) days of the
statement date, the alarm administrator may revoke the alarm user's permit.
   B.   If the alarm user's permit has been revoked, the alarm user will have
to make application for a new permit and pay the appropriate fee. No alarm
permit will be issued to an individual or business who owes fees to the town of
Wayne, resulting from the provisions of subsection A of this section. It shall
be a violation of this section 6-5B-7 to operate an alarm system when the
permit for that system has been revoked by the alarm administrator.
   C.   If the alarm user's permit is revoked, the alarm user may appeal the
revocation to the town board of trustees, provided the appeal is made within
ten (10) calendar days from the date of revocation. (Ord. 6-5B-6B, 5-5-2009)
6-5B-7-7: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement of this section
6-5B-7 will be by the police and fire chiefs, alarm administrator, code
enforcement officer or their designated representatives.
   B.   Violation of this section
6-5B-7 shall be punished as provided in section
6-5B-7-6 of this article. (Ord. 6-5B-6B, 5-5-2009)
**** ARTICLE C. OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS ****
SECTION:
6-5C-1: False Representation Of Physical Disabilities
6-5C-2: False Representation Of Age
6-5C-3: Window Peeping
6-5C-4: Obscene, Threatening, Harassing Telephone, Cellphone And Computer Calls
Or Messages
6-5C-5: Disorderly House
6-5C-6: Lewd Conduct
6-5C-7: Gambling
6-5C-8: Prostitution
6-5C-9: Conduct Near Schools
6-5C-1: FALSE REPRESENTATION OF PHYSICAL DISABILITIES:
   No person shall falsely represent himself as blind, deaf, mute, crippled or
physically disabled for the purpose of obtaining money or other things of
value, or to secure aid or assistance on account of such false representation.
(1994 Code § 10-506; amd. 2004 Code)
6-5C-2: FALSE REPRESENTATION OF AGE 1 :
   No person shall, for the purpose of violating any statutes of the state or
any ordinances of the town, wilfully and knowingly misrepresent his age by
presenting a false document purporting to state his true age or by presenting a
document not his own. (1994 Code § 10-508)
 
Notes
  See also subsections
1 4-2-10C and
  4-3-8C of this code.
6-5C-3: WINDOW PEEPING:
   Every person who hides, waits or otherwise loiters in the vicinity of any
private dwelling house, apartment building, any other place of residence, or in
the vicinity of any locker room, dressing room, restroom or any other place
where a person has a right to a reasonable expectation of privacy, with the
unlawful and wilful intent to watch, gaze, or look upon any person in a
clandestine manner, shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. (2004
Code)
6-5C-4: OBSCENE, THREATENING, HARASSING TELEPHONE, CELLPHONE AND COMPUTER CALLS
OR MESSAGES:
   A.   No person shall by means, of telephone, cellphone or computer,
wilfully:
      1.   Make any comment, request, suggestion or proposal which is obscene,
lewd, lascivious, filthy or indecent;
      2.   Make a telephone, cellphone or computer call or message, whether or
not conversation ensues, without disclosing his identity and with intent to
annoy, abuse, threaten or harass any person at the number called or computer
terminal used;
      3.   Permit any telephone, cellphone or computer under his control to be
used for any purpose prohibited by this section; or
      4.   In conspiracy or concerted action with other persons, make repeated
or simultaneous, telephone, cellphone, computer calls or messages, solely to
harass any person at the called number or computer terminal.
   B.   Use of telephone facility, cellphone, or computer terminal under this
section shall include all uses made of such a facility between the points of
origin and reception.
   C.   Any offense under this section is a continuing offense and shall be
deemed to have been committed at either the place of origin or the place of
reception. (Ord. 2007-05, 2-4-2008)
6-5C-5: DISORDERLY HOUSE 1 :
   A.   Definition: A "disorderly house" means any structure or vehicle by
which the peace, comfort, health, welfare or decency of the public is disturbed
by reason of the people therein committing or resorting to any of the following
acts:
      1.   The sale, distribution, possession or use of any controlled
dangerous substance, the sale, distribution, possession or use of which is
declared unlawful by state statute; (1994 Code § 10-510)
      2.   The violation of any of the ordinances of the town or statutes of
the state regulating the sale, distribution, possession or use of "alcoholic
beverages" and "low point beer" as defined by law; (1994 Code § 10-510; amd.
2004 Code)
      3.   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by state statute
or town ordinance including, but not limited to, soliciting for purposes of
prostitution; or
      4.   The violation of any state statute or town ordinance prohibiting
gambling.
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet or assist in keeping
and maintaining, a disorderly house.
      2.   No owner, lessee, lessor, or other person, partnership or
corporation having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle,
mobile home, or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sublease or
otherwise permit the use of same for the purpose of keeping therein any
disorderly house, and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building,
structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home, or recreational vehicle is so occupied
as a disorderly house. No persons, partnership or corporation shall continue to
grant permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house.
      3.   No person shall knowingly reside in, enter into, or remain in a
disorderly house. In any prosecution for violation of this subsection B3, the
town shall have the burden to prove such knowledge by direct evidence only and
not by circumstantial evidence. This subsection B3 shall not apply to
physicians or officers in the discharge of their professional or official
duties. (1994 Code § 10-510)
 
Notes
1 See also subsection
  5-2-3A5 of this code.
6-5C-6: LEWD CONDUCT:
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Appear in any public place in the town in a state of nudity;
   B.   Appear in any public place in the town in any offensive, indecent or
lewd dress; or
   C.   Make an indecent public exposure of his or her person. (1994 Code § 10-
511)
6-5C-7: GAMBLING 1 :
   A.   Gambling: It is unlawful for any person to play any prohibited game
described in this section.
   B.   Frequenting Gambling Premises: It is unlawful for any person to be
about in the immediate vicinity where a person or persons are gambling, whether
by playing games, operating a slot machine or other device, or otherwise.
   C.   Gambling Devices:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to exhibit or expose to view in any
building, or in any part of or room in any building, any table, cards, dice,
roulette wheel or other article or apparatus designed for or used for gambling
purposes.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to keep, own, operate, use, conduct or
cause to be kept, operated, used or conducted, either as owner, manager,
dealer, clerk or employee, and whether for hire or not, any punchboard,
machine, cards, game, parlay card or any other device or paraphernalia, wherein
or whereby any money or property or any representative of either, or other
valuable thing, may be played, bet, staked, wagered or hazarded, won, lost or
obtained upon any chance, combination of numbers, emblems or any uncertain or
contingent event or condition, or football or baseball contest.
      3.   The apparatus and paraphernalia used in the conduct of any of the
gambling games prohibited by this section are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance and subject to seizure and suppression by any officer, and shall be
abated, forfeited and destroyed upon the order and decree of any court of
competent jurisdiction.
   D.   Preventing Access To Gambling House: It is unlawful for any person to
bar or barricade any building, or any part of or room in any building, in order
to render the same difficult for access or ingress by the police officers of
the town, in which building, or any part of or room in any such building, any
table, cards, dice, roulette wheel or other article or apparatus designed for
or being used for gambling purposes are exhibited or exposed to view.
   E.   Violations:
      1.   Any person who plays or carries on, or opens or causes to be opened,
or who conducts, either as owner or employee, roulette, craps, or any banking
or percentage game, played with dice, cards or any other device, for money,
checks, credit or any representative of value, or any other gambling game, is
guilty of an offense.
      2.   Any person who bets on or plays at any of the prohibited games
mentioned in subsection E1 of this section, or otherwise gambles, is guilty of
an offense.
   F.   Exemptions From Provisions: Nothing herein contained shall be construed
to prevent the sponsoring and operation of bingo games by nonprofit religious,
fraternal, charitable or educational organizations, provided the organizations
are properly licensed and operated in accordance with law. (1994 Code § 10-512)
 
Notes
1 See also subsection
  5-2-3A4 of this code.
6-5C-8: PROSTITUTION:
   A.   Definitions:
   KNOWN PROSTITUTE OR PROCURER: A person who, within one year prior to the
date of the suspected violation of this section, has, within the knowledge of
the arresting officer, been convicted of a violation of this section or has
been convicted of violating any statute or ordinance of any jurisdiction which
makes prostitution or soliciting for the purpose of prostitution unlawful.
   PROSTITUTION:
      1.   The giving or receiving of the body for sexual intercourse,
fellatio, cunnilingus, masturbation, anal intercourse or lewdness with any
person not his or her spouse, in exchange for money or any other thing of
value; or
      2.   The making of any appointment or engagement for sexual intercourse,
fellatio, cunnilingus, masturbation, anal intercourse or lewdness with any
person not his or her spouse, in exchange for money or any other thing of
value. (1994 Code § 10-513; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   It is unlawful:
         a.   To engage in prostitution, lewdness or assignation;
         b.   To solicit, induce, entice or procure another to commit an act of
lewdness, assignation or prostitution; or
         c.   To aid, abet or participate in the doing of any of the acts
herein prohibited.
      2.   No person shall, in any way or manner whatever, keep, harbor or
house any prostitute. (1994 Code § 10-513)
      3.   No person shall entice or attempt to entice any person into a house
of prostitution, or have illicit sexual intercourse with any person under
twenty one (21) years of age. (1994 Code § 10-513; amd. 2004 Code)
      4.   No person shall keep or maintain a house of prostitution or house of
assignation 1 .
      5.   No person shall lease, let or furnish any building, room, tent or
structure of any kind, or any conveyance used or to be used as a place of
prostitution or assignation within the town, or knowingly permit the same to be
so used. (1994 Code § 10-513)
      6.   No person shall knowingly accept, receive, levy or appropriate any
money or other thing of value without consideration from a prostitute or from
the proceeds of any person engaged in prostitution. (1994 Code § 10-513; amd.
2004 Code)
      7.   No person shall offer or offer to secure another for the purpose of
prostitution, or for any other lewd or indecent act.
      8.   No person shall direct, take or transport, or offer or agree to take
or transport or aid or assist in transporting, any person to any house, place,
building or other structure, vehicle, trailer or other conveyance, or to any
other person with knowledge or having reasonable cause to believe that the
purpose of such directing, taking or transporting is prostitution, lewdness or
assignation.
      9.   It is unlawful for a person to be present in a public place in a
manner and under circumstances manifesting the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such a purpose is
manifested are: that such person is a known prostitute or procurer; that such
person repeatedly beckons to, stops or attempts to stop or engage passersby in
conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop motor vehicle operators
by hailing, waving of arms or any other bodily gesture. No arrest shall be made
for a violation of this subsection, unless the arresting officer first affords
such person an opportunity to explain such conduct, and no one shall be
convicted of violating this subsection if it appears at trial that the
explanation given was true and disclosed a lawful purpose. (1994 Code § 10-513)
 
Notes
1 See also subsection
  5-2-3A5 of this code.
6-5C-9: CONDUCT NEAR SCHOOLS:
   No person shall engage in any of the conduct or acts hereinafter set forth
around, in or near any school or school grounds or streets and alleys adjacent
to any school:
   A.   Any conduct that would disturb the orderly conduct of the school;
   B.   Annoying or molesting any student or employee of the school;
   C.   Lewd or wanton conduct in, near or around any of the schools or school
grounds or streets and alleys adjacent to the schools;
   D.   Moving or parking any vehicle in the vicinity of any school for the
purpose of annoying or molesting any student or employee of the school; or
   E.   Any other act or conduct calculated to or likely to annoy or molest any
student or employee of the school. (1994 Code § 10-514)
**** ARTICLE D. OFFENSES INVOLVING LIQUOR AND DRUGS ****
SECTION:
6-5D-1: Public Intoxication
6-5D-2: Controlled Dangerous Substance, Marijuana And Paraphernalia And Medical
Marijuana
6-5D-3: Drug Paraphernalia
6-5D-4: Sniffing Glue, Paint And Other Substances
6-5D-1: PUBLIC INTOXICATION 1
:
   No person shall be in any public place in a state of intoxication. A "state
of intoxication" means the condition in which a person is under the influence
of drugs, alcoholic beverages or low point beer to such an extent as to deprive
the person of his full mental or physical power or be unable to exercise care
for his own safety or the safety of others. (1994 Code § 10-501; amd. 2004
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  4-2-9C of this code.
6-5D-2: CONTROLLED DANGEROUS SUBSTANCE, MARIJUANA AND PARAPHERNALIA, AND
MEDICAL MARIJUANA:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Use, have, inject, ingest, inhale, otherwise introduce into the
human body or possess a controlled dangerous substance, including marijuana,
except as otherwise provided for in this section;
      2.   Use or possess drug paraphernalia or to deliver, possess, or
manufacture any such paraphernalia individually or in conjunction with any
other person; or
      3.   Appear to be upon or in any street, alley, place of business, or
other public place in the town while under the influence of a controlled
dangerous substance.
   B.   For the purpose of this section, "marijuana" shall have the meaning
prescribed by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2-101. "Drug paraphernalia" shall
have the meaning prescribed by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2-101, including
the factors to determine in section 2-101.1.
   C.   A persons in possession of a valid state issued medical marijuana
license shall be able to:
      1.   Consume marijuana legally;
      2.   Legally possess up to three (3) ounces on their person;
      3.   Legally possess six (6) mature marijuana plants;
      4.   Legally possess six (6) seedling plants;
      5.   Legally possess one (1) ounce of concentrated marijuana;
      6.   Legally possess seventy two (72) ounces of edible marijuana; and
      7.   Legally possess up to eight (8) ounces of marijuana in their
residence.
   D.   Possession of up to one and one half (1.5) ounces of marijuana by
persons who can state a medical condition, but not in possession of a state
issued medical marijuana license, shall constitute a misdemeanor offense with a
fine not to exceed four hundred dollars ($400.00). (1994 Code § 10-502; amd.
Ord. 2019-002, - -2019)
6-5D-3: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, "drug paraphernalia" means
all equipment, products and materials of any kind which are used or intended
for use in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body a
controlled dangerous substance in violation of the state uniform controlled
dangerous substances act, 63 Oklahoma Statutes sections 2-101 et seq.,
hereinafter referred to as "the act", and adopted by reference herein. The term
includes, but is not limited to:
      1.   Kits used or intended for use in planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing orharvesting any species of plant which is a controlled dangerous
substance or from which a controlled dangerous substance can be derived;
      2.   Kits used or intended for use in manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, or preparing controlled dangerous
substances;
      3.   Isomerization devices used or intended for use in increasing the
potency of any species of plant which is a controlled dangerous substance;
      4.   Testing equipment used or intended for use in identifying, or in
analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled dangerous
substances;
      5.   Scales and balances used or intended for use or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled dangerous substances;
      6.   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose, used or intended for use in cutting controlled
dangerous substances;
      7.   Separation gins and sifters used or intended for use in removing
twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining marijuana;
      8.   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used or
intended for use in compounding controlled dangerous substances;
      9.   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used or intended
for use in packaging small quantities of controlled dangerous substances;
      10.   Containers and other objects used or intended for use in storing or
concealing controlled dangerous substances;
      11.   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used or intended for
use in parenterally injecting controlled dangerous substances into the human
body; and
      12.   Objects used or intended for use in ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the
human body, such as:
         a.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal
bowls;
         b.   Water pipes;
         c.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         d.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         e.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning materials, such
as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in
the hand;
         f.   Miniature cocaine spoons, and cocaine vials;
         g.   Chamber pipes;
         h.   Carburetor pipes;
         i.   Electric pipes;
         j.   Air driven pipes;
         k.   Chillums;
         l.   Bongs; or
         m.   Ice pipes or chillers.
   B.   Determining Drug Paraphernalia: In determining whether an object is
drug paraphernalia, a court or other authority should consider, in addition to
all other logically relevant factors, the following:
      1.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
      2.   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of the act;
      3.   The proximity of the object to controlled dangerous substances;
      4.   The existence of any residue of controlled dangerous substances on
the object:
      5.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he knows, or
should reasonably know, intended to use the object to facilitate a violation of
the act; the innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the object, as
to a direct violation of the act, shall not prevent a finding that the object
is intended for use as drug paraphernalia;
      6.   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object which either
state directly or imply that the object is to be used for the consumption of
controlled substances;
      7.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
      8.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
      9.   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
      10.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      11.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
      12.   Expert testimony concerning its use.
   C.   Prohibitions:
      1.   Use: It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent
to use, drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled dangerous substance in violation of the act.
      2.   Sale: It is unlawful for any person to deliver, possess with intent
to deliver, or manufacture with intent to deliver, drug paraphernalia, knowing,
or under circumstances where one reasonably should know, that it will be used
to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert,
produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain,
conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled dangerous substance in violation of the act. (1994 Code § 10-503;
amd. 2004 Code)
6-5D-4: SNIFFING GLUE, PAINT AND OTHER SUBSTANCES:
   No person shall sniff or inhale paint, glue, gasoline or other volatile
substances for purposes of intoxication. (1994 Code § 10-504)
**** ARTICLE E. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY ****
SECTION:
6-5E-1: Escape, Attempt To Escape
6-5E-2: Aid In Escape
6-5E-3: Delivery Of Articles To Prisoners
6-5E-4: Resisting, Assaulting Public Officials
6-5E-5: Obedience To Police And Fire Personnel
6-5E-6: Eluding Police
6-5E-7: Refusing To Assist Police
6-5E-8: Use Of Siren Or Whistle
6-5E-9: Impersonating An Officer Or Employee
6-5E-10: False Statements, Reports Or Complaints
6-5E-11: False Alarms
6-5E-12: Duties Of Public At Fires And Emergencies
6-5E-13: Signs And Equipment
6-5E-1: ESCAPE, ATTEMPT TO ESCAPE:
   No person lawfully in custody or confined in jail, before or after
conviction, for any violation of the ordinances of the town, or held in custody
before going to jail, shall break or attempt to break jail or custody, and
escape or attempt to escape therefrom. (1994 Code § 10-601; amd. 2004 Code)
6-5E-2: AID IN ESCAPE 1 :
   A.   No person shall convey into the jail any disguised instrument or
anything proper or useful to facilitate the escape of any prisoner lawfully
committed to or detained in the jail for any violation of the town ordinances,
for any criminal offense, or lawfully detained or imprisoned therein, whether
such escape is effected or attempted or not. (1994 Code § 10-602; amd. 2004
Code)
   B.   No person shall in any way aid, remove or assist any person to resist
or escape from custody of any police officer or from any lawful confinement.
(1994 Code § 10-603; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 See also subsection
  6-5E-4B3 of this article.
6-5E-3: DELIVERY OF ARTICLES TO PRISONERS:
   No person shall deliver any article or thing to any person under arrest
without the consent of the officer having charge and custody of the prisoner.
(1994 Code § 10-604)
6-5E-4: RESISTING, ASSAULTING PUBLIC OFFICIALS:
   A.   Definitions:
   OBSTRUCTION OF: In addition to its common meaning, shall include:
      1.   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer can
restrain him and after notice is given that he is under arrest;
      2.   Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the arresting
officer before the person is actually placed under arrest or after he is
arrested; or
      3.   Refusal by the arrested party to give his name and make his identity
known to the arresting officer.
   RESISTING AN OFFICER: The intentional opposition or resistance to, or
obstruction of, an individual acting in his official capacity, and authorized
by law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property, or to serve any lawful
process or court order, when the offender knows or has reason to know that the
person arresting, seizing property, or serving process is acting in his
official capacity. (1994 Code § 10-606)
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or wilfully to:
         a.   Resist, oppose or obstruct the chief of police, any other police
officer, the municipal judge, or any other officer or employee of the town in
the discharge of his official duties;
         b.   Obstruct, threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to
intimidate any officer or employee from the discharge of his official duties;
or
         c.   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use
abusive or indecent language toward or about, any such officer or employee
while such officer or employee is in the discharge of his official duties.
(1994 Code § 10-615)
      2.   It is unlawful to resist, oppose or assault, prevent, fail to
cooperate with or in any way interfere with a police officer or any person duly
authorized to act as such, while the officer or person is discharging or
attempting to discharge his official duties within the limits of the town.
      3.   It is unlawful for any person to warn or signal another so as to
assist such other person to flee, escape or evade an officer seeking to make an
arrest or for any person to bar or lock any door or barrier in the face of or
in front of an approaching officer 1 . (1994 Code § 10-606)
      4.   No person shall knowingly commit any assault, battery or assault and
battery on any town official or police officer or firefighter while in the
performance of his duties. (1994 Code § 10-605)
 
Notes
1 See also section
  6-5E-2 of this article.
6-5E-5: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE PERSONNEL 2 :
   No person shall fail to heed a reasonable order of a police officer or
firefighter while such officer is in the discharge of an official duty in
maintaining the public safety or welfare. (1994 Code § 10-608)
 
Notes
2 See also subsection 7-11-2B of this code.
6-5E-6: ELUDING POLICE:
   No operator of a motor vehicle who has received a visual and audible signal,
a red light and a siren from a peace officer driving a motor vehicle, showing
the same to be an official police, sheriff or highway patrol or state game
ranger car directing the operator to bring his vehicle to a stop, shall
wilfully increase his speed or extinguish his lights to elude or attempt to
elude such peace officer, or attempt in any other manner to elude the peace
officer. (1994 Code § 10-609; amd. 2004 Code)
6-5E-7: REFUSING TO ASSIST POLICE:
   It is the duty of all persons in the town, when called upon by any peace
officer, to promptly aid and assist him in the execution of his duties. (1994
Code § 10-607; amd. 2004 Code)
6-5E-8: USE OF SIREN OR WHISTLE:
   A.   No person shall use any police whistle or any other instrument used by
police officers to give signals to each other, or imitate any signal given by
one police officer to another or any special signal used by police officers,
for the purpose of improperly or causelessly attracting the attention of the
police. (1994 Code § 10-610)
   B.   No person, except members of police department, fire department or
other emergency services, shall ring, use or otherwise sound any gong, siren,
whistle or any other device for making similar noise. (1994 Code § 10-610; amd.
2004 Code)
6-5E-9: IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE:
   A.   No person, other than police officers of the town, shall wear or carry
the uniform, apparel, badge, identification card or any other insignia of
office like or similar to, or a colorable imitation of, that adopted and worn
or carried by the police officers of the town.
   B.   No person shall do or attempt any act to impersonate a police officer.
   C.   It is unlawful to falsely impersonate any officer or employee of the
town, or falsely represent himself to be an officer or employee of the town, by
any kind of representation, pretense, insignia, sound, clothing or conduct, or
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of an
officer or employee of the town without being authorized to do so. (1994 Code §
10-611)
6-5E-10: FALSE STATEMENTS, REPORTS OR COMPLAINTS:
   A.   No person shall knowingly make or file, or cause to be made or filed, a
false or misleading report or misrepresentation, allegation or complaint with
the police department or any officer or employee of the town, or on any
official application, or commit perjury before any tribunal of the town.
   B.   No person shall wilfully and without probable cause make a false report
to any person of any crime, violation of the town's ordinances, or
circumstances indicating the possibility of crime or violation having been
committed, including, but not limited to, the unlawful taking of personal
property, which report causes or encourages the exercise of police or other
official action or investigation. (1994 Code § 10-612)
6-5E-11: FALSE ALARMS:
   It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in
any manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the fire department, police
department or any other emergency personnel, or summon any officer or employee
thereof with reference to any fire alarm or reported fire, accident or other
emergency or knowingly to cause the fire department or police department or its
officers or employees to make a useless or unnecessary run to any part of the
town or outside the town. (1994 Code § 10-613)
6-5E-12: DUTIES OF PUBLIC AT FIRES AND EMERGENCIES:
   A.   All persons at fires or other emergencies or accidents shall conduct
themselves in an orderly and lawful manner and assist in maintaining law and
order.
   B.   No person at or near any fire or emergency shall conduct himself in a
disorderly manner or neglect or refuse to promptly obey any order of the fire
chief or his assistants relative to such fire; and no person shall resist,
obstruct, hinder or abuse any officer of the fire department or any firefighter
in the proper discharge of his duty.
   C.   Every police officer present at a fire shall keep back all persons who
are in the way or impeding the work of the fire department and, so far as
possible, protect all property from loss or injury, and cooperate with and
assist the fire department in every way possible while at the fire. The fire
chief or an assistant fire chief or any police officer shall have the power to
designate persons to guard any goods.
   D.   No person shall follow or block the way of any emergency vehicle
engaged in an emergency run, or knowingly interfere with officers at the
location of any fire or emergency. (1994 Code § 10-616)
6-5E-13: SIGNS AND EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Tampering With Signs And Equipment: It is unlawful for any person to
tamper with any signs, signal equipment or other device placed, operated and
maintained by the town in connection with the administration of this code or
town ordinances, regulations, services, functions or performance of duties
thereto. (1994 Code § 10-617)
   B.   Removal Of Barricades: It is unlawful for any person, except by proper
authority, to remove any barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the
town to keep traffic off any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area.
(1994 Code § 10-614)
   C.   Public Works Construction:
      1.   Any person who removes, destroys, disturbs, or in any manner injures
any grade stake, stone or other mark or monument set by or under authority of
the town to designate or mark grades, lines, corners or benchmarks on any
public work in the town prior to the completion and acceptance of the contract
for which such stakes or monuments are set, without lawful authority, is guilty
of an offense.
      2.   Any contractor or other person constructing any public work in the
town shall protect such work by barriers or obstructions. It is unlawful for
any person to cross the barriers or to remove them until the work has been
completed and opened by authority of the town. (1994 Code § 10-313)
***** CHAPTER 6
JUVENILES *****
SECTION:
6-6-1: Curfew Regulations
6-6-2: Contributing To Delinquency Of A Minor
6-6-3: Tobacco Products Sales; Youth Addiction
6-6-4: Social Hosting
6-6-1: CURFEW REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection:
   CUSTODIAN: Any person over the age of twenty one (21) years who is in loco
parentis to a minor.
   GUARDIAN: Any person, other than a parent, who has legal guardianship of a
minor.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18).
   PARENT: The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment or other lawful purpose. A "public place" shall
include, but not be limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling
alley, cafe, theater, drugstore, pool room, shopping center and any other place
devoted to amusement or entertainment of the general public. "Public place"
shall also include the front or immediate area of the above.
   B.   Age And Hour Restrictions: It is unlawful for any minor to remain,
wander, stroll or play in any public place on foot or to cruise about without a
set destination in any vehicle in, about or upon any public place in the town
between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.,
unless:
      1.   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having custody or control of such minor;
      2.   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or activity
directed or permitted by his parent, guardian or other adult person having the
care and custody of the minor; or
      3.   Where the presence of such minor is connected with or required by
some legitimate employment, trade, profession or occupation.
   C.   Responsibility Of Business Owner: It is unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation operating or having charge of any public place to knowingly
permit or suffer the presence of minors between the hours of curfew designated
in subsection B of this section.
   D.   Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian: It is unlawful for any parent,
guardian, custodian or other adult person having custody or control of any
minor to suffer or permit or, by inefficient control, allow such person to be
on any public place within the town between the hours of curfew designated in
subsection B of this section. The provisions of this subsection do not apply
if:
      1.   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having the care, custody or control of the minor;
      2.   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or activity
directed by his parent, guardian, custodian or other adult having the care and
custody of the minor; or
      3.   The parent, guardian or other adult person herein has made a missing
person notification to the town police department.
   E.   Exemptions From Provisions:
      1.   Authority To Exempt: The board of trustees may permit, by resolution
or motion, procedures for advance notice or registration with the town of
special events or functions sponsored by churches, schools, clubs or other
organizations which require minors to be out at a later time.
      2.   Application For Exemption: A parent, guardian or custodian of such
minor may file a written application directed to the chief of police of the
town who may grant a special exemption of enforcement of the curfew provided by
this section being required as to such minor, which exemption shall not exceed
five (5) consecutive days, or in the alternative, two (2) days of any week for
a period not to exceed thirty (30) days. All requests shall be filed with the
town clerk-treasurer.
      3.   Grant Or Denial Of Exemption; Appeal: The chief of police shall have
the authority to grant or reject any request for an exemption to enforcement of
the curfew provided by this section or may reduce the time limit of such
exemption. However, any applicant for such exemption, feeling aggrieved by the
action of the chief of police, may file a request for hearing before the judge
of the municipal court who shall summarily hear same, and his judgment shall be
final.
   F.   Enforcement:
      1.   The board of trustees may also prescribe the procedures for taking
into custody minors found in violation of this section.
      2.   Any law enforcement officer who shall witness a violation of this
section may take such offender into his custody to be prosecuted for such
violation, require the posting of a sufficient bond for such minor's appearance
in court, or may place the minor in the custody of his or her parents or some
responsible person. (1994 Code § 10-505)
6-6-2: CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OF A MINOR:
   A.   Definitions:
   ANY PERSON: Any human being, without regard to the legal or natural
relationship to a minor, as well as legal or corporate entities.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   B.   Prohibition: Any person who shall knowingly or wilfully cause, aid,
abet or encourage a minor to be, to remain, or to become a "delinquent child",
as defined by state law, shall be guilty of an offense. (1994 Code § 10-516)
6-6-3: TOBACCO PRODUCTS SALES; YOUTH ADDICTION:
   A.   Definitions:
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust or
association, however formed.
   PROOF OF AGE: A driver's license, license for identification only, or other
generally accepted means of identification which describes the individual as
eighteen (18) years of age or older and contains a photograph or other likeness
of the individual and appears on its face to be valid.
   SAMPLE: A tobacco product distributed to members of the public at no cost
for the purpose of promoting the product.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
consumption.
   B.   Distribution And Sales; Identification:
      1.   Furnishing To Underage Person; Underage Employees: It is unlawful
for any person to sell, distribute or furnish in any manner any tobacco product
to another person who is under eighteen (18) years of age or to purchase in any
manner a tobacco product on behalf of another person who is under eighteen (18)
years of age. Provided, that it shall not be unlawful for an employee under
eighteen (18) years of age to handle tobacco products when required to do so in
the performance of his duties of employment.
      2.   Demand Proof Of Age: A person engaged in the sale or distribution of
tobacco products shall demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or
recipient, if an ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance that
the prospective purchaser or recipient may be under eighteen (18) years of age.
      3.   Fines: When a person violates subsection B1 or B2 of this section,
he will be subject to a fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the first
offense within a one year period, fifty dollars ($50.00) for a second offense
within a one year period, and seventy five dollars ($75.00) for a third or
subsequent offense within a one year period. Provided, that proof that the
defendant demanded, was shown, and reasonably relied upon proof of age shall be
a defense to any action brought pursuant to this subsection.
      4.   Guilt Of Employee: If the sale of tobacco products to another person
who is under eighteen (18) years of age is made by an employee of the owner of
a store at which tobacco products are sold at retail, the employee shall be
guilty of the violation and shall be subject to the fine.
   C.   Purchases By Underage Persons; Falsifying Proof Of Age:
      1.   Purchases Prohibited; False Identification: It is unlawful for a
person who is under eighteen (18) years of age to purchase, accept receipt of,
or have in his possession a tobacco product, or to present or offer to any
person any purported proof of age which is false, fraudulent or not actually
his own, for the purpose of purchasing or receiving any tobacco product.
Provided, that it shall not be unlawful for such person to handle such tobacco
products when required to do so in the performance of his duties of employment.
      2.   Fines: When a person violates subsection C1 of this section, he
shall be subject to a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first
offense within a one year period, and a fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00)
for a second or subsequent offense within a one year period.
      3.   Failure To Pay Fine; Driver's License Suspension: Upon failure of
the defendant to pay the fine within ninety (90) days of the date of the
assessment of such fine, the clerk of the court shall notify the Oklahoma
department of public safety, and the department shall suspend or not issue a
driver's license to said defendant until proof of payment has been furnished to
the department of public safety.
   D.   Distribution Of Samples:
      1.   Distribution To Underage Persons: It shall be unlawful for any
person to distribute tobacco product samples to any person under eighteen (18)
years of age.
      2.   Distribution Near Schools: It shall be unlawful for any person to
distribute tobacco product samples in or on any public street, sidewalk or park
that is within three hundred feet (300') of the town public schools or any
facility owned and operated by the town public schools.
      3.   Fines: When a person violates subsection D1 or D2 of this section,
he shall be subject to a fine in the amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for
the first offense within a one year period, fifty dollars ($50.00) for a second
offense within a one year period, and seventy five dollars ($75.00) for a third
or subsequent offense within a one year period.
   E.   Tobacco Sales In Original, Sealed Packaging: It is unlawful for any
person to sell tobacco products except in the original sealed package in which
they were placed by the manufacturer. When a person violates this subsection,
he shall be subject to a fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each
offense. (2004 Code)
6-6-4: SOCIAL HOSTING:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
   ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from
whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Includes alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every
liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and which contains
one-half of one percent or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for
beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other
substances. This term includes intoxicating beverages and "low point beer" as
defined herein.
   GATHERING: A party, gathering, or event, where a group of three (3) or more
persons have assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social
activity.
   HARMFUL SUBSTANCE:
      1.   Contains ketones, aldehydes, organic acetones, ether, chlorinated
hydrocarbons (e.g., gasoline, glue, fingernail polish, etc.) or some other
solvent releasing toxic vapors; or
      2.   Causes or can cause conditions of intoxication, inebriation,
excitement, elation, stupefaction, paralysis, irrationality, dulling of the
brain or nervous system or otherwise changes, distorts or disturbs the
eyesight, thinking process, judgment, balance or coordination of an individual.
   INTOXICATING BEVERAGE: Includes beverages containing more than three and
two-tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN:
      1.   A person who, by court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
      2.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by the
court.
   LOW POINT BEER: Means and includes beverages containing more than one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) alcohol by volume, and not more than three and two-
tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight, including, but not limited to, beer or
cereal malt beverages obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of
barley or other grain, malt or similar products.
   MINOR: Any person less than twenty one (21) years of age.
   PARENT: A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent, or
stepparent of another person.
   PREMISES: Any residences or other private property, place, or premises,
including any commercial or business property.
   RESPONSE COSTS: The cost associated with responses by law enforcement, fire
and other emergency response providers to a gathering, including, but not
limited to:
      1.   Salaries and benefits of law enforcement, code enforcement, fire, or
other emergency response personnel for the amount of time spent responding to,
remaining at, or otherwise dealing with a gathering, and the administrative
costs attributable to such response(s);
      2.   The cost of any medical treatment for any law enforcement, code
enforcement, fire, or other emergency response personnel injured responding to,
remaining at, or leaving the scene of a gathering;
      3.   The cost of repairing any city equipment or property damage, and the
cost of the use of any such equipment, in responding to, remaining at, or
leaving the scene of a gathering; and
      4.   Any other allowable costs related to the enforcement of this
section.
   B.   Consumption Of Alcohol By Minor In Public Place, Place Open To Public,
Or Place Not Open To Public: Except as permitted by state law, it is unlawful
for any minor to:
      1.   Consume at any public place or any place open to the public
alcoholic beverage, tobacco, and/or dangerous substance; or
      2.   Consume at any place not open to the public any alcoholic beverage,
tobacco, and/or dangerous substance, unless in connection with the consumption
of the alcoholic beverage, tobacco, and/or dangerous substance that a minor is
being supervised by his or her parent or legal guardian.
   C.   Hosting, Permitting, Or Allowing A Party, Gathering Or Event Where
Minors Consuming Alcoholic Beverages, Tobacco, And/Or Dangerous Substances
Prohibited:
      1.   It is the duty of any person having control of any premises, who
knowingly hosts, permits, or allows a gathering at said premises to take all
reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages or harmful
substances by any minor at the gathering. Reasonable steps are controlling
access to alcoholic beverages at the gathering; controlling the quantity of
alcoholic beverages present at the gathering; verifying the age of the persons
attending the gathering by inspecting driver's licenses or other government
issued identification cards to ensure that minors do not consume alcoholic
beverages while at the gathering; and supervising the activities of minors at
the gathering.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person having control of any premises to
knowingly host, permit, or allow a gathering to take place at said premises
where at least one minor consumes an alcoholic beverage, tobacco, and/or
dangerous substances whenever the person having control of the premises either
knows a minor has consumed an alcoholic beverage, tobacco, and/or dangerous
substances or reasonably should have known that a minor consumed an alcoholic
beverage, tobacco, and/or dangerous substances had the person taken all
reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of an alcoholic beverage, tobacco,
and/or dangerous substances by a minor as set forth in subsection C1 of this
section.
      3.   This section shall not apply to conduct involving the use of
alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and dangerous substances that occurs exclusively
between a minor and his or her parent or legal guardian.
      4.   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any family
activity held in the confines of the family home from providing the use of
alcohol to immediate family members within the supervision of parents and
guardians. However, if a minor leaves such a family gathering intoxicated and
is found in public then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in
the same manner as a nonfamily gathering.
      5.   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any
religious practice which includes the use of alcohol. However, if a minor
leaves such a religious gathering intoxicated and is found to be in public then
said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in the same manner as a
nonreligious gathering.
      6.   This section shall not apply to any premises licensed by the state
of Oklahoma to dispense alcoholic beverages.
   D.   Reservation Of Legal Options: Violations of this section may be
prosecuted by the town of Wayne criminally, civilly and/or administratively as
provided by this code. The town may seek administrative fees and response costs
associated with enforcement of this section through all remedies or procedures
provided by statute, ordinance, or law. This section shall not limit the
authority of peace officers or private citizens to make arrests for any
criminal offense arising out of conduct regulated by this section, nor shall
they limit the town's ability to initiate and prosecute any criminal offense
arising out of the same circumstances necessitating the application of this
section.
   E.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate the provisions of this section
shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the town and upon conviction
thereof shall be punished for violation of a class A offense, with fines of
five hundred dollars ($500.00), or by imprisonment not exceeding sixty (60)
days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, plus all court costs and statutory
penalties.
   F.   Local Authority: This section shall not apply where prohibited or
preempted by state or federal law. (Ord. 6-6-4, 7-7-2008)
***** CHAPTER 7
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY *****
SECTION:
6-7-1: Definition
6-7-2: Delivery Of Property; Records Kept
6-7-3: Disposition Of Unclaimed Property
6-7-4: Property Associated With Gambling Offense
6-7-5: Property Related To Alcoholic Beverages
6-7-6: Property Of Deceased Persons
6-7-7: Unclaimed Or Confiscated Weapons
6-7-8: Recovery Of Property By Owner
6-7-1: DEFINITION:
   For the purpose of this chapter, "police chief" means the police chief or a
designee appointed by the chief or the board of trustees. (1994 Code § 13-501)
6-7-2: DELIVERY OF PROPERTY; RECORDS KEPT:
   All personal property which comes into the possession of any police officer,
which has been found or stolen or taken off the person or out of the possession
of any prisoner or person suspected of or charged with being a criminal, and
which is not known to belong to some person laying claim thereto, shall be, by
the officer securing possession thereof, delivered into the charge of the
police chief. The police chief shall, in a permanent record book kept for that
purpose, make a record sufficient to identify the property, with the date and
circumstances of the receipt thereof and the name of the person from whom it
was taken and the place where it was found. The record shall also disclose the
subsequent disposal thereof, giving the date of sale, name and address of the
purchaser, and the amount for which it was sold. (1994 Code § 13-501)
6-7-3: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY:
   A.   Sale Of Property:
      1.   Authority To Sell: The police chief is authorized to sell personal
property, other than animals, money or legal tender of the United States,
except as provided in subsection C of this section, which has come into his
possession in any manner if:
         a.   The owner of the personal property is unknown or has not claimed
the property; (1994 Code § 13-502)
         b.   The property has been in the custody of the police chief for at
least ninety (90) days; and
         c.   The property or any part thereof is no longer needed to be held
as evidence or for any other purpose in connection with any litigation.
      2.   Application For Sale: The police chief shall file an application in
the district court of the county requesting the authority of the court to
conduct a sale of such personal property which has a fair market value of more
than its face value. The police chief shall attach to his application a list
describing such property, including any identifying numbers and marks, the date
the property or money or legal tender came into his possession, and the name of
the owner and his address, if known. The court shall set the application for
hearing not less than ten (10) days nor more than twenty (20) days after filing
of the application.
      3.   Notice Of Sale: In any instance where the property has an actual or
apparent value of more than twenty five dollars ($25.00), at least ten (10)
days prior to the date of the hearing, notice of the hearing shall be sent by
certified mail to each owner at his address as listed in the application. If
the owner of any property with an actual or apparent value exceeding five
hundred dollars ($500.00) is unable to be served notice by certified mail,
notice shall be provided by one publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the town. The notice shall contain a brief description of the
property of the owner and the place and date of the hearing. The notice shall
be posted at the assigned place for the posting of town notices, and at two (2)
other public places in the town.
      4.   Failure Of Owner To Claim: If no owner appears and establishes
ownership to the property at the hearing, the court shall enter an order
authorizing the police chief to donate the property having value of less than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) to a "not for profit corporation" as defined by
state law for use by needy families or to sell the personal property for cash
to the highest bidder at an auction sale, after at least five (5) days' notice
of the sale has been published. The police chief shall thereafter make a return
of the donation or sale, and the order of the court confirming the donation or
sale shall vest title to the property in the purchaser. The money received from
the sale of the personal property shall be deposited in the town's general fund
after first paying court costs and other expenses.
   B.   Money And Legal Tender:
      1.   Deposit In General Fund: All money or legal tender of the United
States, except as provided in subsection C of this section, which has come into
the possession of the police chief pursuant to the circumstances provided in
subsection A1 of this section, shall be transferred by the police chief to the
town clerk-treasurer for deposit in the general fund.
      2.   Application To Transfer Money: Prior to any such transfer, the
police chief shall file an application in the district court requesting the
court to enter an order authorizing him to transfer the money for deposit in
the general fund. The application shall describe the money or legal tender, the
date the same came into his possession, and the name of the owner and his
address, if known.
      3.   Hearing: Upon filing the application which may be joined with an
application as described in subsection A2 of this section, a hearing shall be
set not less than ten (10) days nor more than twenty (20) days from the filing
of the application. Notice of the hearing shall be given as provided in
subsection A2 of this section. The notice shall state that upon failure of
anyone to appear to prove ownership to the money or legal tender, the court
shall order the same to be deposited in the general fund. The notice may be
combined with a notice to sell personal property as provided in subsection A3
of this section.
      4.   No Claimant; Deposit Authorized: If no one appears to claim and
prove ownership to the money or legal tender at the hearing, the court shall
order the same to be transferred to the general fund as provided in this
subsection.
   C.   Property Found By Individual: Any property found by a person, other
than a public official, which shall be delivered to any police officer for
"identification" and registration, if not claimed or identified within thirty
(30) days, shall, within ten (10) additional days thereafter, if requested by
the finder, be returned to the finder, and a record of such disposal made
thereof. However, in all other cases, only property in which the finder
relinquishes any future claim to its ownership will be stored in the town
police property room. (1994 Code § 13-502; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   Prohibited Property Or Where Other Procedures Established: The
provisions of this section shall not apply to any dangerous or deadly weapons,
narcotic or poisonous drugs, explosives, or any property of any kind or
character, which the possession of is prohibited by law, nor to any property
for which a specific procedure is otherwise established by law, ordinance or
proper order. By order of the trial court, any such property filed as an
exhibit or held by the town shall be destroyed or sold or disposed of, pursuant
to the conditions prescribed in such order.
   E.   Destruction Of Certain Properties: Property authorized to be destroyed
herein or by state or other law, or which cannot be sold or used by the town,
shall be destroyed on order of the police chief. The destruction of personal
property must be witnessed by at least three (3) members of the police
department who must sign a certificate of destruction listing all property
destroyed, a general description of same, and the date, time, place and manner
of such destruction. (1994 Code § 13-502)
6-7-4: PROPERTY ASSOCIATED WITH GAMBLING OFFENSE:
   A.   If any personal property used for the purpose of violating any of the
gambling laws of the state shall be seized by any officer or person with or
without a search warrant, such officer or person is hereby required, within
five (5) days of the seizure, to make a written report under oath and file the
same with the county clerk, which report shall, in detail, state the name of
the officer or person making the seizure, the place where seized and an
inventory of the property or articles so taken into possession.
   B.   Within five (5) days after seizing such property, the officer shall
deliver the property to the county sheriff and take the sheriff's receipt
therefor, in duplicate, and the sheriff shall retain the same and all thereof
until the same shall be destroyed pursuant to the orders of the court.
   C.   In computing the time, five (5) days, Sundays and holidays shall be
excluded and not counted.
   D.   A duplicate copy of the receipt shall be filed with the county clerk,
who shall keep a record of same. However, the sheriff and his deputies shall be
required to make the affidavit and issue the receipt and otherwise comply with
the provisions of this section. The sheriff shall be liable on his bond for the
safekeeping of all such property so turned over to him under the provisions of
this section. (1994 Code § 13-503)
6-7-5: PROPERTY RELATED TO ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   If town police officers seize any apparatus, equipment, vehicle or
instrumentality used for or intended for use in manufacturing or transporting
any alcoholic beverages in violation of the state alcoholic beverage control
laws, or any alcoholic beverages possessed, sold, transported, manufactured,
kept or stored in violation of the state alcoholic beverage control laws, and
if the court finds, from a preponderance of the evidence, that the property
seized was lawfully subject to seizure, then the court shall render judgment
accordingly and order the property forfeited to the town. Such seized property
shall be sold by the town, after giving ten (10) days' notice by one
publication in a legal newspaper of the county at least ten (10) days before
such sale. Appeal from such an order may be taken as in civil cases. When such
property is sold under the provisions of this section, the proceeds thereof
shall be distributed as follows:
   A.   First, to the payment of the costs of the case in which the order of
forfeiture was made and the actual expenses of preserving the property; and
   B.   Second, the remainder shall be deposited with the town. (1994 Code §
13-504; amd. 2004 Code)
6-7-6: PROPERTY OF DECEASED PERSONS:
   A.   Claimants Restricted: The personal property of a deceased person shall
be delivered only to the next of kin of such person or to the legally appointed
representative of his estate. If the personal property is claimed by the
legally appointed representative of the estate of the deceased, a certified
copy of the order of the district court appointing such person shall be deemed
sufficient authority to support the claim. If the personal property is claimed
by the next of kin, the claimant shall furnish an affidavit to the effect that
he is the person entitled to possession of the property. The affidavit shall be
deemed sufficient authority to support the claim.
   B.   Unclaimed Property: If personal property of a deceased person remains
unclaimed for a period of ninety (90) days, it shall be disposed of in the
appropriate manner provided in this chapter. (1994 Code § 13-505)
6-7-7: UNCLAIMED OR CONFISCATED WEAPONS:
   A.   Trading Weapons:
      1.   Authority To Trade: Unclaimed or confiscated weapons which have been
in the possession of the police department for ninety (90) days or more may be
traded by the police chief or his designee for new weapons for use by the
police department. The unclaimed or confiscated weapons may only be traded to
such gun dealers who have complied with applicable state and federal
regulations concerning firearms and, in the opinion of the police chief or his
designee, are reputable. (1994 Code § 13-506; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   Advertise For Bids: In trading such unclaimed or confiscated
weapons, the police chief or his designee shall advertise for bids for such
trade. Such advertisement for bids shall be done in accordance with prevailing
and established bid procedure as formulated by the purchasing entity of the
town 1 .
      3.   Value Determined: The value of such unclaimed and confiscated
weapons as hereinabove discussed shall, in all cases, be determined by the fair
market value of the new weapons received in such trade. (1994 Code § 13-506)
   B.   Sale, Lease Or Destruction Of Weapons: Any weapon or firearm
confiscated and forfeited by the police department may be sold at public
auction, or when no longer needed as evidence in the criminal proceeding the
police department may lease any firearm confiscated and forfeited by law to any
law enforcement agency for a period of one year. Such lease may be renewed each
year thereafter at the discretion of the police department to assist in the
enforcement of the laws of the state or its political subdivisions. Any weapon
or firearm deemed by the police department to be inappropriate for lease or
sale shall be destroyed. (2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 See section 2-1-4 of this code.
6-7-8: RECOVERY OF PROPERTY BY OWNER:
   A.   Proof Of Ownership: Any owner, to recover or claim property, must be
able to satisfactorily prove ownership to the police chief. (1994 Code § 13-
502)
   B.   Purchaser Reimbursed: If any property is sold as herein provided, and
the owner thereof takes and recovers possession of same from the purchaser, the
amount paid therefor shall be returned to the purchaser, upon verified claim
being submitted and approved by the police chief. (1994 Code § 13-507)
***** CHAPTER 8
FAIR HOUSING *****
SECTION:
6-8-1: Purpose
6-8-2: Fair Housing Board
6-8-3: Housing Discrimination Acts Prohibited
6-8-4: Exemptions From Provisions
6-8-5: Enforcement
6-8-6: Serving Notices
6-8-7: Violation; Penalty
6-8-1: PURPOSE:
   The general purposes of this chapter are:
   A.   To secure for all people equal access to housing in all neighborhoods;
and
   B.   To preserve the public safety, health and welfare. (1994 Code § 5-701)
6-8-2: FAIR HOUSING BOARD:
   A.   Board Created; Composition: There is hereby created a fair housing
board of the town, hereinafter referred to as "board", composed of the members
of the town board of trustees. (1994 Code § 5-704)
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the fair housing board to:
      1.   Initiate, receive, and investigate complaints charging unlawful
housing practices;
      2.   Seek conciliation of such complaints, hold hearings, make findings
of fact, and publish its findings of fact; and
      3.   Adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary within the
limits of this chapter, and carry out the purposes and provisions of this
chapter. (1994 Code § 5-705)
6-8-3: HOUSING DISCRIMINATION ACTS PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be an unlawful discriminatory housing practice for any person,
or any agent or employee of such person:
      1.   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of any housing, or otherwise make
unavailable or deny any housing because of race, color, religion, gender,
national origin, age, familial status, or handicap.
      2.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of housing, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with any housing because of race, color, religion,
gender, national origin, age, familial status, or handicap.
      3.   To make, print, publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
housing that indicates any preference, limitation, discrimination, or intention
to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination because of race,
color, religion, gender, national origin, age, familial status, or handicap.
      4.   To represent to any person, for reasons of discrimination, that any
housing is not available for inspection, sale or rental when such housing is in
fact so available because of race, color, religion, gender, national origin,
age, familial status, or handicap.
      5.   To deny any person access to, or membership or participation in, a
multiple listing service, real estate brokers organization or other service,
organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or renting
dwellings, or discriminate against a person in the terms or conditions of
access, membership, or participation in such an organization, service, or
facility because of race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age,
familial status, or handicap.
      6.   To include in any transfer, sale, rental, or lease of housing any
restrictive covenant that discriminates, or for any person to honor or
exercise, or attempt to honor or exercise, any discriminatory covenant
pertaining to housing because of race, color, religion, gender, national
origin, age, familial status, or handicap.
      7.   To refuse to consider the income of both applicants when both
applicants seek to buy or lease housing because of race, color, religion,
gender, national origin, age, familial status, or handicap.
      8.   To refuse to consider as a valid source of income any public
assistance, alimony, or child support, awarded by a court, when that source can
be verified as to its amount, length of time received, regularity, or receipt
because of race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age, familial
status, or handicap.
      9.   To discriminate against a person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges relating to the obtaining or use of financial assistance for the
acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair, or maintenance of any
housing because of race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age,
familial status, or handicap.
      10.   To discharge, demote, or discriminate in matters of compensation or
working conditions against any employee or agent because of the obedience of
said employee or agent to the provisions of this section.
      11.   To solicit or attempt to solicit the listing of housing for sale or
lease, by door to door solicitation, in person, or by telephone, or by
distribution of circulars, if one of the purposes is to change the racial
composition of the neighborhood.
      12.   To knowingly induce or attempt to induce another person to transfer
an interest in real property, or to discourage another person from purchasing
real property, by representations regarding the existing or potential proximity
of real property owned, used, or occupied by persons of any particular race,
color, religion, gender, national origin, age, familial status, or handicap, or
to represent that such existing or potential proximity shall or may result in:
         a.   The lowering of property values;
         b.   A change in the racial, religious, or ethnic character of the
block, neighborhood, or area in which the property is located;
         c.   An increase in criminal or antisocial behavior in the area; or
         d.   A decline in quality of the schools serving the area.
      13.   To refuse to rent or lease housing to a blind, deaf, or handicapped
person on the basis of the person's use or possession of a bona fide, properly
trained guide, signal, or service dog.
      14.   To demand the payment of an additional nonrefundable fee or an
unreasonable deposit for rent from a blind, deaf, or handicapped person for
such dog. Such blind, deaf, or handicapped person may be liable for any damage
done to the dwelling by such dog.
      15.   To discriminate in the sale or rental or otherwise make available
or deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap of:
         a.   That buyer or renter;
         b.   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is sold, rented, or made available; or
         c.   Any person associated with that buyer or renter.
      16.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with the dwelling because of a handicap of:
         a.   That person;
         b.   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         c.   Any person associated with that person.
      17.   For purposes of handicap discrimination in housing pursuant to this
chapter, discrimination includes:
         a.   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by the
person if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises, provided that such person also provides a surety
bond guaranteeing restoration of the premises to its prior condition, if
necessary to make the premises suitable for nonhandicapped tenants;
         b.   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services, when the accommodations may be necessary to afford the
person equal opportunity to use, and enjoy a dwelling; or
         c.   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy thirty (30) months after the date of
enactment of the federal fair housing amendments act of 1988 (public law 100-
430), a failure to design and construct those dwelling in a manner that:
            (1)   The public use and common use portions of the dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            (2)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            (3)   All premises within the dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               (A)   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               (B)   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               (C)   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later
installation of grab bars; and)
               (D)   Usable kitchen and bathrooms so that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
            (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the American
national standard for buildings and facilities providing accessibility and
usability for physically handicapped people, commonly cited as "ANSI A 117.1",
suffices to satisfy the requirements of subsection A17 of this section;
            (5)   As used in this subsection, the term "covered multi-family
dwellings" mean:
               (A)   Buildings consisting of four (4) or more units if the
buildings have one or more elevators; and
               (B)   Ground floor units in other buildings consisting of four
(4) or more units.
            (6)   Nothing in this subsection requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
      18.   A person whose business includes engaging in residential real
estate related transactions may not discriminate against a person in making a
real estate related transaction available or in the terms or conditions of a
real estate related transaction because of race, color, religion, gender,
handicap, familial status, national origin, or age. In this subsection
"residential real estate related transaction" means:
         a.   Making or purchasing loans or providing other financial
assistance:
            (1)   To purchase, construct, improve, repair, or maintain a
dwelling; or
            (2)   To secure residential real estate; or
         b.   Selling, brokering, or appraising residential real property.
   B.   This section does not prohibit discrimination against a person because
the person has been convicted under federal law or the law of any state of the
illegal manufacture or distribution of a controlled substance. (2004 Code)
6-8-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
   A.   Nothing herein shall:
      1.   Prohibit a religious organization, association, or society, or any
nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised, or controlled by or
in conjunction with a religious organization, association, or society, from
limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of housing which it owns or operates
for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same religion, or from
giving preferences to such persons, unless membership in such religion is
restricted on account of race, color, or national origin. Nor shall anything in
this chapter apply to a private membership club which is a bona fide club and
which is exempt from taxation pursuant to section 501(c) of the internal
revenue code.
      2.   Prohibit a religious organization, association, or society, or a
nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised, or controlled by or
in conjunction with a religious organization, association, or society, from:
         a.   Limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of dwellings that it owns
or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion; or
         b.   Giving preference to persons of the same religion, unless
membership in the religion is restricted because of race, color, or national
origin;
      3.   Prohibit a private club not open to the public that, as an incident
to its primary purpose, provides lodging that it owns or operates for other
than a commercial purpose from limiting the rental or occupancy of that lodging
to its members or from giving preference to its members.
      4.   Prohibit a person engaged in the business of furnishing appraisals
of real property from taking into consideration factors other than race, color,
age, religion, gender, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
      5.   Affect a reasonable local or state restriction on the maximum number
of occupants permitted to occupy a dwelling or restriction relating to health
or safety standards.
      6.   Prevent or restrict the sale, lease, rental, transfer, or
development of housing designed or intended for the use of the handicapped.
      7.   Affect a requirement of nondiscrimination in any other state or
federal law.
      8.   Prohibit the transfer of property by will, intestate succession, or
by gift.
   B.   Nothing herein relating to familial status applies to housing for older
persons. As used in this section, "housing for older persons" means housing:
      1.   That the commission determines is specifically designed and operated
to assist elderly persons pursuant to a federal or state program;
      2.   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons sixty two (62) year of
age or older; or
      3.   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person fifty
five (55) years of age or older per unit as determined by commission rules.
   C.   1.   Subject to subsection C1a(2) of this section, this chapter does
not apply to:
         a.   The sale or rental of a single-family house sold or rented by an
owner if:
            (1)   The owner does not:
               (A)   Own more than three (3) single-family houses at any one
time; or
               (B)   Own any interest in, or is there owned or reserved on his
behalf, pursuant to any express or voluntary agreement, title to or any right
to any part of the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three (3)
single-family houses at any one time; and
            (2)   The house was sold or rented without:
               (A)   The use of the sales or rental facilities or services of a
real estate broker, agent, or salesman licensed pursuant to the Oklahoma real
estate license code, or of an employee or agent of a licensed broker, agent, or
salesman, or the facilities or services of the owner of a dwelling designed or
intended for occupancy by five (5) or more families; or
               (B)   The publication, posting, or mailing of a notice,
statement, or advertisement prohibited by section
6-8-3 of this chapter; or
         b.   The sale or rental of rooms or units in a dwelling containing
living quarters occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than four (4)
families living independently of each other, if the owner maintains and
occupies one of the living quarters as the owner's residence.
      2.   The exemption in subsection C1 of this section applies to only one
sale or rental in a twenty four (24) month period, if the owner was not the
most recent resident of the house at the time of the sale or rental. (2004
Code)
6-8-5: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Filing Of Complaint:
      1.   Any person aggrieved by discriminatory practice prohibited by this
chapter may file with the fair housing board a complaint in writing, under
oath. The complaint shall be signed by the person claiming to be aggrieved, and
shall state the name and address of the person alleged to have violated the
provisions of this chapter, and shall further set forth the particulars of the
violation, and may include such other information as may be required by the
board. Complaints filed under this section must be filed within one year after
the alleged violation, and failure to file within the time shall be considered
a waiver of the application of this chapter.
      2.   The board may issue a complaint on its own initiative not later than
one year after an alleged discriminatory housing practice has occurred or
terminated, whichever is later. (1994 Code § 5-706; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Investigation: The board shall investigate each complaint filed with
the board and shall attempt an adjustment of the complaint by means of
conference and conciliation. Sixty (60) days shall be allowed for the purpose
of investigation, conference and conciliation. Upon determination that a
complaint is not well founded, the board shall dismiss the complaint and notify
the complainant and respondent in writing of the dismissal. If the board takes
no action within ninety (90) days of the filing of the complaint, it shall be
considered as dismissed.
   C.   Notice To Respondent: If conference or conciliation does not result in
compliance with this chapter, the board shall cause to be issued and served in
the name of the town a written notice, together with a copy of the complaint,
requiring the person named in the complaint, hereinafter referred to as
"respondent", to answer charges of the complaint at a hearing before the board
at a time and place to be specified in the notice.
   D.   Hearing; Decisions:
      1.   At the hearing provided for in subsection C of this section, the
complaint shall be heard by the board. At the hearing, the complainant or
person aggrieved may appear in person or by counsel, and the respondent may
file a written answer to the complaint and may appear in person or by legal
counsel. The board, when conducting any hearing pursuant to this section, may
permit amendments to any complaint or answer, and the testimony taken at the
hearing shall be under oath and shall be transcribed at the request of either
party or at the direction of the board.
      2.   If the board finds at the hearing that the respondent has engaged in
any discriminatory practice or practices prohibited by this chapter, it shall
state its findings of fact, and shall so certify the matter to the town
attorney for appropriate action. No prosecution shall be brought under this
chapter except upon such certification.
      3.   If the board, upon hearing, finds that respondent has not engaged in
any discriminatory practice, it shall state its findings of fact and shall
issue and file an order dismissing the complaint.
      4.   The board shall establish rules and regulations to govern and
expedite and effectuate the foregoing procedure, and shall maintain the files
provided for herein. (1994 Code § 5-706)
6-8-6: SERVING NOTICES:
   Any and all notices required under the provisions of this chapter to be
served upon any person may be served personally on such person or by mailing a
copy thereof by certified or registered mail, with return receipt requested, to
the most current business or residence address of such person. (1994 Code § 5-
707)
6-8-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   It is unlawful and constitutes an offense for any person to violate any of
the provisions of this chapter. Any person found guilty of violating any
provisions shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and is subject, upon
conviction, to punishment as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, plus costs. (1994 Code § 5-708)
***** CHAPTER 9
RACIAL PROFILING *****
SECTION:
6-9-1: Racial Profiling Prohibited; Policy Adopted
6-9-1: RACIAL PROFILING PROHIBITED; POLICY ADOPTED:
   The town board of trustees hereby adopts a detailed written policy that
prohibits racial profiling, and clearly defines the elements constituting
racial profiling, as submitted by the Oklahoma human rights commission, and in
compliance with 22 Oklahoma Statutes section 34.3. One copy of said policy
shall be and remain on file in the office of the town clerk-treasurer. (2004
Code)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
***** CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE *****
SECTION:
7-1-1: Short Title
7-1-2: Scope
7-1-3: State Traffic Code Adopted
7-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited as the TOWN TRAFFIC CODE. (1994 Code
§ 15-101)
7-1-2: SCOPE:
   The provisions of this title shall apply and be enforced on all roads,
streets and highways within the town and on all roads, streets and highways
forming the boundary lines of the town. (1994 Code § 15-107)
7-1-3: STATE TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED:
   There is hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference the state motor
vehicle code, title 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-101 et seq., and the state
"Rules of the Road", 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 10-101 et seq., and all other
misdemeanor traffic and motor vehicle violations in 47 Oklahoma Statutes, as
now exist and as may, from time to time, be amended. Such state laws as adopted
herein by reference shall be fully enforceable by the town within the town
limits as fully as if set out at length herein. One copy is on file in the
office of the town clerk-treasurer for public use, inspection and examination.
(1994 Code § 15-106; amd. 2004 Code)
***** CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS *****
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
   As used in this title, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   ALLEY: Any narrow public passageway or street ordinarily located in the
interior portion of platted blocks, having no legal or official name other than
"alley", as herein defined, and ordinarily open to traffic and used for service
or delivery purposes to the rear of stores, dwellings or buildings.
   ARTERIAL STREET: Any U.S. or state numbered route, controlled access highway
or other major radial or circumferential street or highway designated by the
board of trustees within its jurisdiction as part of a major arterial system of
streets or highways.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: A vehicle of the fire department, police
department or other law enforcement agencies, state and national, ambulances,
and such other emergency vehicles of municipal departments or public service
corporations as are authorized by the chief of police, and all of which are
equipped with sirens capable of giving audible signals and with flashing red
lights displayed openly on the front when engaged in emergency runs.
   BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two (2) tandem wheels, either of which is more than twenty inches
(20") in diameter.
   BOULEVARD OR THROUGH STREET: Any street or highway or portion thereof
designated by ordinances of the town which requires vehicles to come to a full
and complete stop before entering from intersecting streets or highways.
   BUS: Any vehicle designed for carrying more than eighteen (18) passengers
and used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation, excluding school buses owned and operated by public or private
schools or school districts, and church buses.
   BUS LOADING ZONE: A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a highway when,
within any six hundred feet (600') along such highway, there are buildings in
use for business or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels,
banks, office buildings, railroad stations or public buildings which occupy at
least three hundred feet (300') of frontage on one side or three hundred feet
(300') collectively on both sides of the highway.
   COMMERCIAL OPERATOR OR DRIVER: Every person who operates, drives or is in
actual physical control of a class A, B or C "commercial motor vehicle" as
defined in 47 Oklahoma Statutes sections 47-1-107.1, 47-1-107.2 and 47-1-107.3.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLES: Vehicles designed primarily for the transportation of
persons or property for hire.
   CROSSWALK:
      A.   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
roadway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway.
      B.   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   CURB LOADING ZONES: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive
use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers, freight or
materials.
   CURBS: The edge of a roadway marked or understood as such.
   DAYTIME; NIGHTTIME: "Daytime" is one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise until
one-half (1/2) hour after sunset; "nighttime" is any other time.
   DOUBLE PARK: The standing or stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
parallel to another vehicle parked on the roadway.
   EMERGENCY: A condition suddenly created, requiring immediate action for the
preservation of public peace, health or safety and, among other things,
particularly means any fire, unusual storm, death, riot or unusual traffic
condition.
   EXPLOSIVES: Any chemical compound, mixture or device, including "fireworks",
the primary or common purpose of which is to function by explosion, i.e., with
substantially instantaneous release of gas and/or heat, unless such compound,
mixture or device is otherwise specifically classified by the interstate
commerce commission. The term "explosives classified by the interstate commerce
commission" includes, but is not limited to, dynamite, black powder, pellet
powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps, safety
fuses, fuse lighters, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant fuses,
instantaneous fuses, igniter cords, igniters, and some special fireworks.
"Commercial explosives" are those which are intended to be used in commercial
or industrial operations.
   FARM TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement, for drawing plows, mowing machines and other implements of
husbandry.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID: Liquid which has a flashpoint of seventy degrees
Fahrenheit (70°F) or less, as determined by a Tagliabue or equivalent closed
cup test device and having a vapor pressure not exceeding forty (40) psia at
one hundred degrees Fahrenheit (100°F).
   INTERSECTION:
      A.   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict; or
      B.   Where a highway includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an
intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event
such intersecting highway also includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or
more apart, then every crossing of two (2) roadways of such highways shall be
regarded as a separate intersection.
   JAKE BRAKING AND/OR ENGINE BRAKING: Wherein engine compression is used to
slow the vehicle in lieu of applying the clutch or brakes. See regulations at
subsection
5-2-3A6a of this code.
   LICENSE TO OPERATE A MOTOR VEHICLE:
      A.   Any valid driver's license or permit to operate a motor vehicle
issued under the laws of the state, including any temporary license or
instruction permit, the lawful possession of which by a resident of the state
shall be evidence that the resident has been granted the privilege to operate a
motor vehicle.
      B.   An "nonresident's operating privilege", as defined by state law,
which is evidenced by the lawful possession of a valid driver license or permit
to operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws of another state.
   METAL TIRE: Every tire, the surface of which, in contact with the highway,
is wholly or partly of metal or other hard, nonresilient material.
   MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLE: Every motorcycle, including every motor scooter,
equipped with a motor which produces not to exceed five (5) brake horsepower at
full throttle without a governor, as determined by a dynamometer test, and
designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the
ground.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle not
operated upon rails; provided, however, this definition shall not include
"implements of husbandry" as defined in 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-125.
   MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: As defined and classified in "Manual on
Classification of Motor Vehicle Traffic Accidents", prepared by the committee
on uniform traffic accident statistics, traffic conference, and distributed by
the national safety board of trustees.
   MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with
the ground, but excluding a tractor or motorized bicycle.
   MUFFLER: A device designed for the use on a particular internal combustion
engine and properly affixed thereto for the purpose of reducing the exhaust
noise of such engine to an unobjectionable level.
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES: All signs, barricades, signals, markings and
devices not inconsistent with this title placed or erected by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic which conform to the latest edition of the "Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways", published by the
state department of transportation, a copy of which is on file in the office of
the town clerk-treasurer for public use and inspection 1 .
   OPERATOR OR DRIVER: Every person, including a "commercial operator or
driver" as defined in this section, who operates, drives or is in actual
physical control of a motor vehicle or who is exercising control over or
steering a vehicle being towed by a motor vehicle.
   OWNER: A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle, or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with a right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the "owner".
   PARK OR PARKING: The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   PASSENGER: A rider in any vehicle other than the driver.
   PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER: Every officer of the town police department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of
traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RAILROAD: A carrier of persons or property upon cars, operated upon
stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN: A steam engine, diesel, electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
   REGISTRATION: The registration certificates and registration plates issued
under the laws of the state pertaining to the registration of vehicles.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a distance
of three hundred feet (300') or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
   REVOCATION OF DRIVING PRIVILEGE: The termination by formal action of the
state department of public safety of a person's driver's license or privilege
to operate a motor vehicle on the public highways. Such action shall include
the requirement of the surrender to the state department of public safety of
said person's driver's license.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY: That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular traffic, exclusive of the shoulder. In the event a highway includes
two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway", as used herein, refers
to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE: An area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or so marked or indicated
by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set apart as a
safety zone.
   SCHOOL BUS: Every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency and
operated for the transportation of children to or from school or privately
owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or
from school. This definition shall not include buses normally used in town
transit which may be used part time for transportation of school children
within the town during some portion of the day.
   SEMITRAILER: Every vehicle, with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its
load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
   SHOULDER: The portion of the roadway contiguous with the traveled way for
accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use, and for lateral support
of base and surface courses.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
   SOLID TIRE: Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
   STAND OR STANDING: The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
   STOP: When required, means complete cessation from movement.
   STOP OR STOPPING: When prohibited, means any halting, even momentarily, of a
vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY: All streets, highways, avenues, boulevards, parkways,
roads, lanes, viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto, alleys, courts,
places, squares, curbs, sidewalks, recreation and park lands used for vehicular
traffic, or other parkways or thoroughfares in the town, over which it has
jurisdiction, which have been or may hereafter be dedicated and open to public
use, or such other public property so designated in any law of the state.
   SUSPENSION OF DRIVING PRIVILEGE: The temporary withdrawal by formal action
of the state department of public safety of a person's driver's license or
privilege to operate a motor vehicle on the public highways.
   TAXICAB: A motor vehicle regularly engaged in the business of carrying
passengers for hire and having a seating capacity of ten (10) or less persons
and not operated on a fixed route.
   THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY: Every street or highway or portion thereof on
which vehicular traffic is given preferential right of way, and at the
entrances to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is
required by law to yield the right of way to vehicles on such through street or
highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a yield sign, when such signs are
erected as provided in this title.
   TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternatively directed to stop,
proceed or proceed with caution.
   TRAFFIC LANE: The portion of the traveled way for the movement of a single
line of vehicles.
   TRAILER: Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle; provided, however, this definition shall not include
"implements of husbandry" as defined in 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-125.
   TRUCK: Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
   U-TURN: Turning a vehicle around so as to proceed in the opposite direction.
   URBAN DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of a
quarter of a mile or more.
   VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks; provided, however, this
definition shall not include implements of husbandry as defined in 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1-125.
   YIELD: The yielding of the right of way to all vehicles or pedestrians
approaching from the right or left intersecting street which are so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
(1994 Code § 15-102; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 2007-001, 1-2-2007)
 
Notes
1 See also section
  7-4-2 of this title.
***** CHAPTER 3
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS *****
SECTION:
7-3-1: Application Of Provisions
7-3-2: Emergency And Experimental Regulations
7-3-3: Vehicle Registration
7-3-4: Driver's License
7-3-5: Insurance Requirements; Exemptions
7-3-6: Accidents
7-3-7: Improvements On Public Ways; Street Closures
7-3-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Pushcarts, Animals, Animal Drawn Vehicles: Every person propelling any
pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and every person driving any
animal drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of this title
applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those provisions of this title
which by their very nature can have no application. (1994 Code § 15-1609)
   B.   Public Officers And Employees:
      1.   This title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by or used
in the service of the United States government, any state, county, town or
other governmental unit or agency, as well as to other vehicles. No such driver
shall violate any of the provisions of this title, except as otherwise
permitted in this title or by state statute.
      2.   This title shall not apply to the military forces of the United
States and organizations of the national guard when performing any military
duty. (1994 Code § 15-1605)
   C.   Public Works Vehicles: Unless specifically made applicable, the
provisions of this title shall not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and
other equipment while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a street, or
to persons, motor vehicles and other equipment while actually engaged in
construction, maintenance or repair of public utilities. All highway and public
utility operations shall be protected by adequate warning signs, signals,
devices or flagmen. This subsection shall not relieve any driver exempted by
this subsection from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor from the consequences of driving while intoxicated. (1994 Code §
15-1607)
7-3-2: EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS:
   The town personnel are empowered to make effective the provisions of the
traffic ordinances of the town and to make temporary or experimental
regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions. No such temporary or
experimental regulation shall remain in effect for more than ninety (90) days.
(1994 Code § 15-1603)
7-3-3: VEHICLE REGISTRATION:
   No person shall operate a vehicle of any kind upon a street of the town
without a state vehicle license or tag as may be required by law. No person
shall fail to display the state vehicle license or tag as required by law or
attach any trailer hitch or other device in a manner as to cover or partially
cover the vehicle license. (1994 Code § 15-306)
7-3-4: DRIVER'S LICENSE:
   A.   License Required: No person shall drive or operate any motor vehicle on
any public roadway within the town, unless such person has a current, not
suspended or revoked, valid driver's license as required by state law. (1994
Code § 15-521; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Suspended, False License:
      1.   No person shall:
         a.   Display or cause or permit to be displayed or have in his
possession any canceled, revoked, suspended, fictitious, photostatic or
fraudulently altered driver's license;
         b.   Lend his driver's license to any other person or knowingly permit
the use thereof by another;
         c.   Display or represent as his own any driver's license not issued
to him; or
         d.   Permit any unlawful use of a driver's license issued to him.
      2.   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any public street within
the town at a time when his privilege to do so is canceled, suspended or
revoked. (1994 Code § 15-522; amd. 2004 Code)
7-3-5: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection:
   COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW: The law requiring liability insurance in
conjunction with the operation of a motor vehicle in this state as found in 47
Oklahoma Statutes article VI, chapter 7, and section 7-606.
   OPERATOR'S POLICY: An operator's policy of liability insurance which shall
insure the named person against loss from the liability imposed upon him by law
for damages arising out of the operation or use by him of any motor vehicle not
owned by him, subject to the same limits of liability required in an owner's
policy.
   OWNER'S POLICY: An owner's policy of liability insurance which:
      1.   Shall designate by explicit description or by appropriate reference
all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted;
      2.   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other person,
except as provided in subsection 3 of this definition, using an insured vehicle
with the express or implied permission of the named insured, against loss from
the liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the ownership,
maintenance, operation or use of such vehicle;
      3.   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with existing
laws; and
      4.   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 7-204.
   SECURITY:
      1.   A policy or bond meeting the requirements of 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 7-204;
      2.   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of limits
required under 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 7-204 as acceptable limits for a
policy or bond; or
      3.   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 7-503, having the equivalency of limits required under 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 7-204 as acceptable limits for a policy or bond.
      4.   For vehicles registered pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1127, a policy or bond meeting or exceeding the requirements
of 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 7-204; provided, the policy or bond may be
issued by an insurance company or surety company authorized to do business in
the state of residence or domicile of the member of the armed forces and the
motor license agent or other registering agency shall accept the security
verification form issued by such insurance company or surety company.
   SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM: A form, approved by the state insurance
commissioner, verifying the existence of security required by the compulsory
insurance law of the state of Oklahoma.
   B.   Proof Of Insurance Required: Every owner or operator of a motor vehicle
registered in the state shall, while operating or using such vehicle within the
town's boundaries, carry either an operator's or an owner's security
verification form issued by a carrier, provided the operator is not excluded
from coverage thereon; or an equivalent form issued by the state department of
public safety, reflecting liability coverage.
   C.   Exemptions: The following shall not be required to carry an owner's or
operator's security verification form or an equivalent form from the department
of public safety during operation of the vehicle:
      1.   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government, or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      2.   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of a business,
corporation or utility on the exterior, and which is in compliance with
provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes sections 7-600 through 7-610, according to
the records of the state department of public safety which reflect a deposit,
bond, self-insurance, or fleet policy; (1994 Code § 15-103; amd. 2004 Code)
      3.   Fleet vehicles maintaining current vehicle liability insurance as
required by the corporation commission or any other regulating entity; (2004
Code)
      4.   Any licensed taxicab; and
      5.   Any vehicle owned by a licensed motor vehicle dealer.
   D.   Enforcement And Penalty:
      1.   An owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a valid and
current security verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by
the department upon request of any peace officer of the department shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine as
provided in section 1-4-1 of this code and court costs.
      2.   A sentence imposed for any violation of this section may be
suspended or deferred in whole or in part by the court.
      3.   Any person producing proof in court that a current security
verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by the department
reflecting this liability coverage for such person was in force at the time of
the alleged offense shall be entitled to dismissal of such charge.
      4.   Upon conviction, bond forfeiture or deferral of sentence, the court
clerk shall forward an abstract to the state department of public safety within
ten (10) days reflecting the action taken by the court. (1994 Code § 15-103)
7-3-6: ACCIDENTS:
   A.   Duties Of Drivers Involved In Accidents:
      1.   Injury To Or Death Of Persons: The driver of any vehicle involved in
an accident resulting in injury to or death of any person shall immediately
stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident or as close thereto as possible
but shall then forthwith return to and in every event shall remain at the scene
of the accident until he has fulfilled the requirements of subsection B of this
section. (1994 Code § 15-1201)
      2.   Damage To Property:
         a.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only
in apparent damage to property shall immediately stop such vehicle at the scene
of such accident or as close thereto as possible. The driver shall remain at
the scene of such accident until he has fulfilled the requirements of
subsection B of this section. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing
traffic more than is necessary. Any person failing to stop or comply with the
requirements under such circumstances shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
         b.   If the damage resulting from such accident is to the property of
the driver only, with no damage to the person or property of another, the
driver need not stop at the scene of the accident but shall make report of the
damage resulting. (1994 Code § 15-1202)
      3.   Unattended Vehicle: The driver of any vehicle which collides with
any vehicle which is unattended shall immediately stop and shall then and there
either locate and notify the operator or owner of such vehicle of the correct
name and address of the driver and owner of the vehicle striking the unattended
vehicle, and provide the operator or owner with information from his "security
verification form", as defined in subsection
7-3-5A of this chapter, or shall leave in a conspicuous place in the vehicle
struck a written notice giving the name and address of the driver and of the
owner of the vehicle doing the striking, and providing information from his
"security verification form", as defined in subsection 7-3-5A of this chapter,
and a statement of the circumstances thereof. (1994 Code § 15-1204)
      4.   Fixtures: The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident
resulting only in damage to fixtures or other property legally upon or adjacent
to a highway shall take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or
person in charge of such property of such fact and of his name and address and
of the registration number of the vehicle he is driving and shall, upon request
and if available, exhibit his driver's license and his "security verification
form", as defined in subsection 7-3-5A of this chapter, and shall make report
of such accident when and as required in subsection C2 of this section. (1994
Code § 15-1205; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Information And Aid: The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident
resulting in injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is
driven or attended by any person shall give his correct name, address and
registration number of the vehicle he is driving, and shall, upon request and
if available, exhibit his driver's license and his "security verification
form", as defined in subsection
7-3-5A of this chapter, to the person struck or the driver or occupant of or
person attending any vehicle collided with, and shall render to any person
injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including the carrying, or the
making of arrangements for the carrying, of such person to a physician, surgeon
or hospital for medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that such
treatment is necessary or if such carrying is requested by the injured person.
(1994 Code § 15-1203; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Notice And Report Of Accident:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle involved in any accident shall immediately,
by the quickest means of communication, give notice of such accident to the
police department, on forms provided by the police department, after complying
with the requirements of subsection B of this section. Where personal injury or
death occurs, the driver or drivers of the vehicles shall remain at the scene
of the accident until police officers arrive, except in cases of personal
injury requiring immediate attention. (1994 Code § 15-1206; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   An accident report is not required under this chapter from any
person who is physically incapable of making report during the period of such
incapacity. Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of giving
an immediate notice of an accident as required in section subsection C1 of this
section and there was another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the
accident capable of doing so, such occupant shall make or cause to be given the
notice not given by the driver. (1994 Code § 15-1207)
7-3-7: IMPROVEMENTS ON PUBLIC WAYS; STREET CLOSURES:
   A.   Authority To Close Streets: Town personnel or contractors, while
repairing or improving lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are
authorized, as necessary, subject to control of the chief of police, to close
any street or section thereof to traffic during such repair, maintenance or
construction. In exercising such authority, such person shall erect or cause to
be erected proper control devices and barricades to warn and notify the public
that the street has been closed to traffic. (1994 Code § 15-1608; amd. 2004
Code)
   B.   Obedience To Barricades And Traffic Control Devices During Street
Closures 1 : When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
subsection A of this section, and traffic control devices or barricades have
been erected, no person shall drive any vehicle through, under, over or around
such traffic control devices or barricades, or otherwise enter the closed area.
This subsection shall not apply to persons while engaged in such construction,
maintenance and repair or to persons entering therein for the protection of
lives or property. Persons having their places of residence or places of
business within the closed area may travel, when possible to do so, through the
area at their own risk.
   C.   Traffic Control Devices Required During Construction: Whenever
construction, repair or maintenance of any street or utility line or facility
is being performed under traffic, the town personnel, contractor, or utility
company concerned shall erect or cause to be erected traffic control devices to
warn and guide the public. Every person using such street shall obey all signs,
signals, markings, flagmen or other traffic control devices which are placed to
regulate, control and guide traffic through the construction or maintenance
area. (1994 Code § 15-1608)
 
Notes
1 See also subsection
  7-5-11H1b of this title.
***** CHAPTER 4
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS *****
SECTION:
7-4-1: Authority To Install Traffic Control Devices
7-4-2: Specifications
7-4-3: Obedience To Official Traffic Control Devices
7-4-4: Effect Of Traffic Signs For Enforcement Purposes
7-4-5: Unauthorized Signs, Signals Or Markings
7-4-6: Interference With, Damage To Traffic Control Devices
7-4-7: Designation Of Crosswalks And Safety Zones
7-4-8: Traffic Control Signal Legend
7-4-9: Pedestrian Control Signals
7-4-10: Testing Traffic Control Devices
7-4-1: AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   The town personnel, subject to direction of the board of trustees, shall
have placed and maintained traffic control signs, signals and devices when and
as required under the traffic ordinances of the town to make effective the
provisions of such ordinances, and may have placed and maintained such
additional traffic control signs, signals and devices as the board of trustees
may deem necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic ordinances of the town
or under state law or to guide or warn traffic. (1994 Code § 15-201)
7-4-2: SPECIFICATIONS 1 :
   All traffic control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the latest
edition of the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices For Streets And
Highways" as published by the Oklahoma department of transportation. All signs
and signals required hereunder for a particular purpose shall, so far as
practicable, be uniform as to type and location throughout the town. All
traffic control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of
state law or this title shall be official traffic control devices. (1994 Code §
15-202)
 
Notes
1 See also section
  7-2-1 of this title, definition of "official traffic control devices".
7-4-3: OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject
to the exceptions granted in this title to the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle. (1994 Code § 15-204)
7-4-4: EFFECT OF TRAFFIC SIGNS FOR ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES:
   No provision of this title for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign was not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, such section shall be effective even though no signs
are erected or in place. (1994 Code § 15-203)
7-4-5: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS:
   A.   Imitation Traffic Control Devices: No person shall place, maintain or
display upon or in view of any highway an unauthorized sign, signal, marking or
device which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official
traffic control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct
the movement of traffic, or which projects any flashing or revolving beams of
light, or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any
official traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   B.   Advertising On Traffic Control Devices: No person shall place or
maintain nor shall any public authority permit upon any highway any traffic
sign, signal or device bearing thereon any commercial or other advertising.
   C.   Advertising On Public Ways: No sign or advertising shall be placed in a
street right of way except official signs or devices placed by authority of
this code or state law.
   D.   Exemptions: This section shall not prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   E.   Summary Removal: Every such prohibited sign, signal, marking or device
is declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance; the town is empowered to
remove the same without notice. (1994 Code § 15-209)
7-4-6: INTERFERENCE WITH, DAMAGE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, change the position of or remove any official
traffic control device, including any 911 emergency telephone service route
markers, or any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia
thereon, or any other part thereof. (1994 Code § 15-210; amd. 2004 Code)
7-4-7: DESIGNATION OF CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES:
   The town personnel, subject to direction by the board of trustees, is
authorized to:
   A.   Designate and have maintained, by appropriate devices, marks or lines
upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where, in the
opinion of town personnel, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing
the roadway, and at such other places as may be deemed necessary; and (1994
Code § 15-211)
   B.   Establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such places as
may be deemed necessary for the protection of pedestrians. (1994 Code § 15-211;
amd. 2004 Code)
7-4-8: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND:
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting the
word "Go", "Caution" or "Stop", or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used, and the terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles
and pedestrians as follows:
   A.   Green Alone Or "Go":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the green signal may proceed straight
through or turn right or left, unless a sign or barricade at such place
prohibits either such turn. But vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning
right or left, shall yield the right of way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the
time such signal is exhibited; and
      2.   Pedestrians facing the green signal may proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked crosswalk;
   B.   Steady Yellow Alone:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the red or "Stop" signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and
such vehicular traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the
red or "Stop" signal is exhibited; and
      2.   Pedestrians facing such steady yellow signal are thereby advised
that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then
starting to cross shall yield the right of way to all vehicles;
   C.   Steady Red Alone Or "Stop":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the steady red signal shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then
before entering the intersection, and shall remain standing until green or "Go"
is shown alone. However, vehicles in the right traffic lane, after making a
stop as above required, may enter the intersection cautiously and make a right
turn, unless "No Turn on Red" signs are posted to prohibit right turns; but
such vehicle shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian or other traffic in
the intersection, and such turn shall not be made so as to interfere with
traffic proceeding on a green signal indication on the cross street; and
      2.   No pedestrian facing such steady red signal shall enter the roadway
until the green or "Go" is shown alone or until authorized so to do by a
pedestrian "Walk" signal.
   D.   Steady Red With Green Arrow:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing such steady red with green arrow signal may
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, but shall yield the right of way to pedestrians lawfully within a
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection;
      2.   No pedestrian facing such steady red with green arrow signal shall
enter the roadway until the green or "Go" is shown alone or until authorized so
to do by pedestrian "Walk" signal; and
      3.   In the event an official traffic control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
subsection shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their
nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or
marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made. In the absence
of any such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal. (1994 Code §
15-205)
   E.   Flashing Signals:
      1.   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows:
a. Flashing Red (Stop Signal): When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or, if
none, than before entering the intersection. The right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign; and
b. Flashing Yellow (Caution Signal): When a yellow lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
      2.   This subsection shall not apply at railroad grade crossings. (1994
Code § 15-207)
7-4-9: PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS:
   A.   General Requirements: Whenever special pedestrian control signals
exhibiting the term "Walk" or "Wait" or "Don't Walk" are in place, such signals
shall indicate as follows:
      1.   Walk: Pedestrians facing such "walk" signal may proceed across the
roadway in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right of way by
the drivers of all vehicles; and (1994 Code § 15-206)
      2.   Wait, Don't Walk: No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in
the direction of such "wait, don't walk" signal, but any pedestrian who has
partially completed his crossing on the "Walk" signal shall proceed to a
sidewalk or safety zone while the "Wait" signal is showing. (1994 Code § 15-
206; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Pedestrian Actuated School Crossing Signals: Whenever a pedestrian
actuated school crossing signal is provided, it requires obedience by vehicular
traffic and pedestrians as provided in subsection A of this section and section
7-4-8 of this chapter. (1994 Code § 15-208; amd. 2004 Code)
      1.   Flashing Yellow:
         a.   When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent
flashes, drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed through the intersection
or past such signal only with caution; and
         b.   Pedestrians shall not proceed in conflict with traffic, but may
actuate the signal control switch, and shall wait until steady red alone is
shown before entering the roadway or intersection controlled by the signal.
      2.   Steady Yellow Alone:
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing the steady yellow signal is thereby
warned that the red or "Stop" signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter,
and such vehicular traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection or
proceed past the steady yellow signal when the red or "Stop" signal is
exhibited; and
         b.   No pedestrian shall enter the roadway or intersection on which
the signal controls vehicular traffic until steady red alone is shown.
      3.   Steady Red:
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing the steady red signal shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, then
before passing the signal or entering the intersection, and shall remain
standing until flashing yellow is shown alone; and
         b.   Pedestrians may proceed across the road controlled by the steady
red signal, and shall be given the right of way by the drivers of all vehicles.
      4.   Steady Red And Steady Yellow Combined:
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
flashing yellow signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and that such
vehicular traffic shall remain standing until the flashing yellow is shown
alone. (1994 Code § 15-208)
         b.   Pedestrians are thereby warned that the flashing yellow signal is
about to be shown, and shall not enter the signal controlled roadway or
intersection, or in a direction which conflicts with the movement of vehicular
traffic; but any pedestrian who has partially completed his crossing shall
proceed to the nearest sidewalk or safety zone and shall be given the right of
way by the drivers of all vehicles. (1994 Code § 15-208; amd. 2004 Code)
7-4-10: TESTING TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   The town may have traffic control devices tested under actual conditions of
traffic. (1994 Code §§ 15-201, 15-1603)
***** CHAPTER 5
DRIVING RULES *****
SECTION:
7-5-1: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
7-5-2: Right Of Way
7-5-3: Through Streets; Stop And Yield Intersections
7-5-4: Speed Restrictions
7-5-5: School Zones
7-5-6: Driving On Right Side Of Roadway
7-5-7: Driving On Roadways Laned For Traffic
7-5-8: Driving On Divided Highways
7-5-9: Passing, Overtaking Vehicles
7-5-10: Turning Movements
7-5-11: Restrictions On Driving
7-5-12: Truck Routes
7-5-13: Processions
7-5-14: Railroad Trains And Crossings
7-5-15: Play Streets
7-5-16: Miscellaneous Prohibitions
7-5-17: Reckless, Careless, Negligent Driving
7-5-18: Driving Under Influence Of Intoxicants
7-5-1: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Operation Of Emergency Vehicles:
      1.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or ordinance or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire
alarm, may exercise the privileges set forth in this subsection, but subject to
the conditions herein stated.
      2.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
         a.   Park or stand irrespective of the provisions of this title;
         b.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
         c.   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he does not endanger
life or property; and
         d.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning
in specific directions. (1994 Code § 15-1606)
      3.   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle
shall apply only when the driver of any such vehicle is making use of audible
and visual signals as required by law; except, that an authorized emergency
vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red
or blue light visible from in front of the vehicle. (1994 Code § 15-1606; amd.
2004 Code)
      4.   The operator of every authorized emergency vehicle, prior to
commencing an emergency run, must report to the police department and advise
the police department of his destination, and if a hazard exists as would
endanger the public, the police department shall have the authority to prohibit
the emergency run.
      5.   This subsection shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor protect the driver from the consequences of his reckless disregard
for the safety of others. (1994 Code § 15-1606)
   B.   Operation Of Vehicle On Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicle: Upon
the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of audible
and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws of the state, or of a
police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible signal only, the
driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right of way and shall
immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to, the
right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection, and shall
stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has
passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer. This subsection
shall not be construed to require a peace officer operating a police vehicle
properly and lawfully in response to a crime in progress to use audible signals
nor shall this subsection operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway. (1994 Code § 15-518; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Following Emergency Vehicles: The driver of any vehicle, other than on
official business, shall not follow any emergency or fire apparatus traveling
in response to a fire alarm closer than five hundred feet (500') or drive into
or park such vehicle within the block where emergency apparatus has stopped in
answer to a fire alarm. (1994 Code § 15-517)
   D.   Driving Over Fire Hose: Whenever any hose of the fire department is
laid upon any street, avenue, alley, bridge or vacant lot in the town, no
person shall drive any automobile, truck, locomotive, railroad car or any other
vehicle over the same, unless the hose shall have been protected by wooden
railings or other device laid along the side thereof, and then only at the
places so protected, unless otherwise directed by a town official. (1994 Code
§ 15-516)
7-5-2: RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   Intersections At Highways:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle on a street which is not a state or federal
highway approaching an intersection with a state or federal highway shall stop
and yield the right of way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection or
which is so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
      2.   When two (2) vehicles enter or approach an intersection from
different highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on
the left shall yield the right of way to the vehicle on the right.
      3.   The right of way rules declared in subsections A1 and A2 of this
section are modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this
chapter.
   B.   T Intersections: The driver of a vehicle approaching a T intersection,
traveling down the base of the "T" intersection, approaching a dead end, must
yield the right of way to all traffic. (1994 Code § 15-801)
   C.   Entering Controlled Intersections:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right of way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
highway; provided, that the driver of a vehicle on a street which is not a
state or federal highway approaching an intersection with a state or federal
highway shall stop and yield the right of way to a vehicle which has entered
the intersection or which is so close thereto as to constitute an immediate
hazard.
      2.   Where one vehicle is required to stop and the other to slow or take
caution, the one slowing or taking caution shall have the right of way. Where
one vehicle is required to slow and the other to take caution, the one required
to take caution shall have the right of way. (1994 Code § 15-802)
   D.   Left Turn At Intersection: The driver of a vehicle within an
intersection intending to turn to the left shall give a signal and yield the
right of way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is
within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate
hazard. However, the driver, having so yielded and having given a signal when
and as required by this chapter, may make such left turn, and the drivers of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection from the opposite direction
shall yield the right of way to the vehicle making the left turn. (1994 Code
§ 15-803)
   E.   Facing Stop, Slow, Warning Or Caution Signals: Where two (2) or more
vehicles face stop, slow, warning or caution signs or signals on two (2) or
more intersecting cross streets, and are approaching so as to enter the
intersection at the same time, where each vehicle is required to stop, the
vehicle coming from the right shall have the right of way. Where each vehicle
is required to slow, the vehicle coming from the right shall have the right of
way. Where each vehicle is required to take caution, the vehicle coming from
the right shall have the right of way. (1994 Code § 15-802)
   F.   Emerging From Alley Or Driveway: The driver of a vehicle emerging from
an alley, driveway or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to
driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway
or driveway and shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian as may be
necessary to avoid collision and, upon entering the roadway, shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. (1994 Code § 15-810)
7-5-3: THROUGH STREETS; STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Through Streets: The town personnel, subject to direction of the board
of trustees, may designate any street or part of street as a through street.
Whenever the town personnel designates and describes a through street, the town
personnel shall have placed and maintained a stop sign or, if deemed more
appropriate at any intersection, a yield sign, on each and every street
intersecting such through street, and a heavy traffic street not so designated.
Stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of either of the streets as may
be determined by town personnel, if deemed desirable. (1994 Code §§ 15-804, 15-
805)
   B.   Determination Of Stop And Yield Intersections:
      1.   The town personnel, subject to direction by the board of trustees,
are authorized to determine and designate intersections where particular hazard
exists upon other than through streets, and to determine:
         a.   Whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such
intersection, in which event, the town personnel shall cause to be erected a
stop sign at every such place where a stop is required; or
         b.   Whether vehicles shall yield the right of way to vehicles on a
different street at such intersection as prescribed in subsection D of this
section, in which event, the town personnel shall cause to be erected a yield
sign at every place where obedience thereto is required.
      2.   Every stop sign and every yield sign shall be erected as near as
practicable to the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, then as near as practicable to the
nearest line of the intersecting roadway.
      3.   Every stop sign shall bear the word "Stop" in letters not less than
eight inches (8") in height. Every yield sign shall bear the word "Yield" in
letters not less than seven inches (7") in height. Every stop sign and every
yield sign shall, at nighttime, be rendered luminous by internal illumination,
or by a floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient
reflecting elements in the face of the sign. (1994 Code § 15-806)
   C.   Vehicles Entering Stop Intersections: Except when directed to proceed
by a police officer or traffic control signal, every driver of a vehicle
approaching a stop intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, in the event
there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none,
then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view
of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. Such driver, after having stopped, shall yield the right of way
to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another highway or which
is approaching so closely on the highway as to constitute an immediate hazard.
The driver having so yielded may proceed only when it is prudent and apparently
safe to do so. (1994 Code § 15-807)
   D.   Vehicles Entering Yield Intersections:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience
to such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, or
shall stop if necessary and yield the right of way to any pedestrian legally
crossing the roadway on which he is driving and to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard. If such driver is involved in a collision with a pedestrian
in a crosswalk or a vehicle in the intersection after driving past a yield
sign, such collision shall be deemed prima facie evidence of his failure to
yield the right of way.
      2.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for
safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked
stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
(1994 Code § 15-808)
7-5-4: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Reasonable And Proper:
      1.   Notwithstanding a maximum speed limit enumerated in this section, no
person shall drive a vehicle upon any alley, highway, roadway, street or public
parking area at a speed greater than or less than is reasonable or prudent
under the conditions then existing, considering visibility, amount of traffic,
condition of roadway surface, presence of pedestrians, obstruction of view and
other similar factors.
      2.   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a street at a speed greater
than will permit him to bring it to a stop within the assured clear distance
ahead.
   B.   Speed Limits Established:
      1.   Generally: Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower
speed for compliance with subsection A of this section, the limits specified in
this section or established as authorized shall be maximum lawful speeds. No
person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed in excess of such maximum
limits as follows:
         a.   Twenty (20) miles per hour on any street in the town except as
may be posted otherwise and except on state or federal highways; and
         b.   Posted miles per hour during the hours posted in school zones.
      2.   Authority To Alter Speed Limits: Town personnel have authority to
post lower speed limits than those prescribed in this section where special
hazards exist. (1994 Code § 15-701)
   C.   Duty To Decrease Speed:
      1.   The fact that the speed of a vehicle is lower than the designated
limits shall not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
traveling upon any narrow winding roadway, or when a special hazard exists with
respect to pedestrians or other traffic, or by reason of weather or highway
conditions, and speed shall be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding
with any person or vehicle or on entering the roadway in compliance with legal
requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care and precaution.
      2.   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements
of this chapter, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when approaching and
crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when approaching and going
around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when driving upon any narrow or
winding roadway and when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians or
traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions. (1994 Code § 15-701)
   D.   Minimum Speed: It is unlawful for any person to drive a motor vehicle
at such slow speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of
traffic, except when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation. Police
officers are hereby authorized to enforce this provision by directions to
drivers, and in the event of wilful disobedience to this provision or refusal
to comply with the direction of an officer in accordance herewith, the
continued slow operation by a driver shall be unlawful and constitute a
blocking of traffic and a violation of this subsection. (1994 Code § 15-702;
amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 2017-011, 12-4-2017)
7-5-5: SCHOOL ZONES:
   A.   Signs Posted: The town personnel, subject to direction by the board of
trustees, are authorized to erect signs to designate school zones and school
zone crosswalks.
   B.   Obedience To Signs And Traffic Control Personnel: No person may drive a
vehicle past a school sign or through a school zone at a per hour speed greater
than that posted as stated on school days. Drivers proceeding in a school zone
shall stop and yield the right of way to pedestrians in school zone crosswalks
when so directed by a school safety patrol member or when such crosswalk is
occupied by pedestrians between the hours posted on school days.
   C.   Prima Facie Proof: Any driver involved in a school zone crosswalk
collision with a pedestrian after failing to slow and yield the right of way to
such pedestrian shall be deemed prima facie in violation of this section. (1994
Code § 15-809)
7-5-6: DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY:
   A.   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway except as follows:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      2.   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      3.   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; and
      4.   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic. (1994
Code § 15-501)
   B.   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right hand lane when available to traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway and may be
temporarily driven upon the right hand shoulder for the purpose of permitting
other vehicles to pass, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction or when preparing for a left turn at an
intersection or into a private road or driveway. (1994 Code § 15-501; amd. 2004
Code)
7-5-7: DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC:
   A.   Marked Traffic Lanes: The town personnel, subject to direction of the
board of trustees, are authorized to have traffic lanes marked upon the roadway
or any street where a regular alignment of traffic is necessary.
   B.   Driving On Laned Roadways: Whenever any roadway has been divided into
two (2) or more clearly marked lanes for traffic, the following rules, in
addition to all others consistent herewith, shall apply:
      1.   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety and has properly
signaled his intentions to do so;
      2.   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes, a vehicle
shall not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is
clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn, or
where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving
in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of
such allocation; and
      3.   Official signs may be erected directing slow moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
   C.   Duty To Stay In Lane: Where traffic lanes have been marked, no operator
of any vehicle shall fail or refuse to keep the vehicle within the boundaries
of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or preparatory to
making a lawful turning movement or otherwise authorized by ordinance. (1994
Code § 15-509)
7-5-8: DRIVING ON DIVIDED HIGHWAYS:
   Whenever any highway has been divided into two (2) roadways by leaving an
intervening space or by a physical barrier or clearly indicated divided section
so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be driven
only upon the right hand roadway. No vehicle shall be driven over, across or
within any such dividing space, barrier or section, except through an opening
in such physical barrier, dividing section or space or at a crossover or
intersection established by public authority. (1994 Code § 15-510)
7-5-9: PASSING, OVERTAKING VEHICLES:
   A.   Passing Vehicles Proceeding In Opposite Direction: Drivers of vehicles
proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other to the right. Upon
roadways having width for not more than one line of traffic in each direction,
each driver shall give to the other at least one-half (1/2) of the traveled
portion of the roadway as nearly as possible. (1994 Code § 15-502)
   B.   Overtaking Vehicle On Left:
      1.   The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of
vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations,
exceptions and special rules hereinafter stated:
         a.   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall
not again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle; and
         b.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle. (1994 Code § 15-503)
      2.   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. The
overtaking vehicle must return to the roadway before coming within one hundred
feet (100') of any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction.
      3.   Every driver who intends to pass another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction, which requires movement of his vehicle from one lane of traffic
to another, shall first see that such movement can be made with safety and
shall proceed to pass only after giving a proper signal by hand or mechanical
device. (1994 Code § 15-505; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   When Overtaking On Right Is Permitted:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
         a.   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn
and has so properly signaled for a left turn;
         b.   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied
by parked vehicles and marked with lines for two (2) or more lanes of traffic
in each direction; and
         c.   Upon a one-way street or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two (2) more lines of moving vehicles.
      2.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon
the right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main traveled
portion of the roadway. (1994 Code § 15-504)
   D.   No Passing Zones:
      1.   Specific No Passing Zones:
         a.   Established: No vehicle shall at any time be driven to the left
side of the roadway under the following conditions:
            (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway where the driver's view is obstructed within such distance as to create
a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction;
            (2)   When traversing an intersection or railroad grade crossing;
or
            (3)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within one
hundred feet (100') of any bridge, viaduct or tunnel.
         b.   Violation: It is a violation to pass on the left by going to the
left of the center of the roadway across a double marked centerline for the
purpose of passing a vehicle traveling in the same direction.
         c.   Exemptions: This subsection D1 shall not apply upon a one-way
roadway. (1994 Code § 15-506)
      2.   Authority To Designate No Passing Zones; Compliance Required:
         a.   The Oklahoma department of transportation as regards state and
federal highways, and the town personnel, subject to direction of the board of
trustees, as regards all other streets, are authorized to determine those
portions of a highway where overtaking and passing or driving to the left of
the roadway would be especially hazardous and shall, by appropriate signs or
markings on the roadway, have the beginning and end of such zones indicated.
When such signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily
observant person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the directions thereof.
         b.   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no passing zone,
no driver shall at any time drive to the left side of the roadway within such
no passing zone or on the left side of any pavement striping designed to mark
such no passing zone through its length. (1994 Code § 15-507)
   E.   Passing Stopped School Bus:
      1.   Procedure: The driver of a vehicle upon any street or highway in the
town upon meeting or overtaking from either direction any school bus on which
the red loading signals are in operation and which has stopped for the purpose
of receiving or discharging any school children and other occupants shall stop
the vehicle before it reaches the school bus. The driver may then proceed to
pass such school bus at a speed which is reasonable and prudent and with due
caution for the safety of such school children and other occupants after the
loading signals are deactivated.
      2.   Signs And Lights On Bus: Every school bus used for the
transportation of school children shall bear upon the front and rear thereof
plainly visible signs containing the words "School Bus" in letters not less
than eight inches (8") in height and, in addition, shall be equipped with
visual signals meeting the requirements of state law which shall be actuated by
the driver of the school bus whenever, but only whenever, such vehicle is
stopped on a street or highway for the purpose of receiving or discharging
schoolchildren.
      3.   Exemptions: The driver of a vehicle upon a street or highway with
separate roadways need not stop upon meeting or passing a school bus which is
on a different roadway or when upon a controlled access highway and the school
bus is stopped in a loading zone which is part of or adjacent to such street or
highway and where pedestrians are not permitted to cross the roadway. (1994
Code § 15-508)
7-5-10: TURNING MOVEMENTS:
   A.   Turning Markers Or Indicators: The town personnel, subject to direction
by the board of trustees, are authorized to have placed markers, buttons or
signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled
by vehicles turning at such intersections. When authorized markers, buttons or
other indicators are placed within an intersection indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles turning thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of such indicators. (1994 Code § 15-902; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Designation Of Restricted Turns:
      1.   Town personnel, subject to direction by the board of trustees, may
determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a
right turn, left turn or U-turn, and shall have placed proper signs at such
intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours
of any day and permitted at other hours.
      2.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right turn,
left turn or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of any such sign. (1994 Code § 15-903)
   C.   Required Position And Method Of Turning At Intersections: The driver of
a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as follows:
      1.   Right Turns: Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn
shall be made as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the
roadway;
      2.   Left Turns On Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such
centerline where it enters the intersection; and after entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to
the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable,
the left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of
the center of the intersection; and
      3.   Left Turns On Other Than Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle. After entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection, as
nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered. (1994 Code § 15-901)
   D.   Turning Movements And Required Signals:
      1.   Safe Turns; Signals Required:
         a.   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection, unless the
vehicle is in proper position upon the roadway as required by ordinance, or
turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise turn a vehicle
from a direct course or move right or left upon a roadway, unless and until
such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person shall turn any
vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided
in the event any other traffic may be affected by such movement. (1994 Code
§§ 15-901, 15-905)
         b.   A signal of intention to turn right or left, when required, shall
be given continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet (100')
traveled by the vehicle before turning.
         c.   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
such signal. (1994 Code § 15-905)
      2.   Methods Of Signaling:
         a.   Signals By Hand, Arm Or Signal Device:
            (1)   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm or by signal lamps, except as otherwise
provided in subsection D2a(2) of this section.
            (2)   Any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped with,
and required signal shall be given by, signal lamps when the distance from the
center of the top of the steering post to the left outside limit of the body,
cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds twenty four inches (24"), or when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit of
the body or load thereof exceeds fourteen feet (14'). The latter measurement
shall apply to any single vehicle and to any combination of vehicles. (1994
Code § 15-906)
         b.   Method Of Giving Hand Signals: All signals herein required given
by hand and arm shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the
following manner:
            (1)   Left Turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally;
            (2)   Right Turn: Hand and arm extended upward; and
            (3)   Stop Or Decrease Speed: Hand and arm extended downward. (1994
Code § 15-907)
   E.   U-Turns:
      1.   U-Turns Prohibited: Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall
turn a vehicle on a street or highway to proceed in the opposite direction at
any of the following places:
         a.   Upon any curve.
         b.   Upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade.
         c.   Where the vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other
vehicle approaching from either direction, within five hundred feet (500').
         d.   At an intersection regulated by a traffic control light, except
where specifically permitted by official signs.
         e.   At an intersection:
            (1)   Where traffic control signals are installed;
            (2)   Where a police officer is directing traffic, except at the
latter's direction; or
            (3)   Where an official no U-turn sign has been placed and is
maintained.
      2.   U-Turns Permitted: When not prohibited in subsection E1 of this
section, persons may execute a U-turn when it can be done safely and without
interfering with traffic. (1994 Code § 15-904)
7-5-11: RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING:
   A.   Following Too Closely: The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow
another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard
to the speed of such vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the
highway. Such driver following too closely shall be deemed negligent. (1994
Code § 15-511)
   B.   Backing Vehicles: The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same,
unless such movement can be made without interfering with other traffic. When a
vehicle is backed more than thirty feet (30'), such movement shall be deemed
unsafe. (1994 Code § 15-534)
   C.   Entering And Leaving Controlled Access Roadways: No person shall drive
a vehicle onto or from any controlled access roadway except at such entrances
and exits as are established by public authority. (1994 Code § 15-512)
   D.   Obstructing Intersection Or Crosswalk: No driver shall enter an
intersection or a marked crosswalk, unless there is sufficient space on the
other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he is
operating without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians,
notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed. (1994 Code
§§ 15-530, 15-811)
   E.   Driving On Sidewalk: The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon a
sidewalk or within any sidewalk area except at a permanent or temporary
driveway. (1994 Code § 15-531)
   F.   Driving Through Safety Zone: No vehicle shall at any time be driven
through or within a safety zone. (1994 Code § 15-540; amd. 2004 Code)
   G.   Driving Through Service Drives: No vehicle shall be driven through any
service drive or parking area except for the purpose of attaining service or
merchandise or for the purpose of parking thereon. (1994 Code § 15-513)
   H.   Driving In Public Parks; Driving On Property Without Permission:
      1.   Parks And Public Property:
         a.   No person shall drive, operate or propel a motor vehicle or motor
driven cycle, including a motor scooter or motor driven bicycle, in any park,
public property or right of way or easement, within or owned by the town,
except upon established roadway or roadways designed for vehicular traffic. A
vehicle may be driven a reasonable distance from the roadway for the purpose of
going to and from a parking place.
         b.   No person shall drive, operate or propel a motor vehicle or motor
driven cycle past any barrier, sign or other device indicating that vehicular
traffic is prohibited in, upon or through any area upon which vehicular traffic
is prohibited 1
.
      2.   Private Property; Permission Required: No person shall drive a motor
vehicle of any size on any private property, unless the operator has obtained
the permission of the owner of the private property.
      3.   Emergency Vehicles Exempt: Emergency vehicles are exempt from the
provisions of this subsection. (1994 Code § 15-532)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  7-3-7B of this title.
7-5-12: TRUCK ROUTES:
   A.   The board of trustees, by motion or resolution, may prescribe routes
through the town for the use of trucks in general or trucks of particular kinds
or other vehicles which are not ordinary private passenger vehicles passing
through the town. The town shall see that appropriate and adequate signs are
placed along such routes so that drivers of such vehicles may follow the
routes.
   B.   The board of trustees, by motion or resolution, may prescribe certain
streets and roads in the town for restricted travel and limit any truck having
more than two (2) axles from travel on certain designated roads and streets.
Restrictions shall not apply to trucks making local deliveries or picking up
materials or merchandise on the street so restricted, nor will it apply to
agricultural equipment or vehicles using the roads for agricultural purposes.
   C.   When such signs are so erected and in place as provided in subsection A
of this section, the driver of a truck or other vehicle for which a route has
been prescribed as provided herein, while passing through the town, shall keep
on such route and shall not deviate therefrom except in case of emergency.
Drivers of such vehicles shall follow such routes so far as practicable also
when driving within the town and not merely through the town. When signs are
erected and in place restricting trucks with two (2) or more axles as provided
in subsection B of this section, no driver of such vehicle shall drive on the
street so designated.
   D.   Town personnel shall keep and maintain accurate maps setting out the
truck routes designated by the town. (Ord. 2005-002, 5-2-2005)
7-5-13: PROCESSIONS 1
:
   A.   Driving In Procession: Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right hand edge of the roadway as practicable except
when otherwise directed or escorted by a police officer. Each driver shall
follow the vehicle ahead as closely as is practicable and safe and at a speed
as designated by the escort for the procession. (1994 Code § 15-525)
   B.   Driving Through Processions: No driver of a vehicle shall drive between
the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while they are
in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously designated as required in
this section. This subsection shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by police officers. (1994 Code § 15-524)
   C.   Identification Of Funeral Procession: A funeral composed of a
procession of vehicles shall be identified by headlights turned on or by the
display upon the outside of each vehicle of an identifying insignia or by such
other method as may be determined and designated by the police department.
(1994 Code § 15-526)
 
Notes
1 2. See section 6-5B-4 of this code for disturbing funeral processions.
7-5-14: RAILROAD TRAINS AND CROSSINGS:
   A.   Railroad Signs And Signals:
      1.   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this subsection, the driver
of such vehicle shall stop within fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen
feet (15') from the nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until
he can do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
         a.   A clearly visible electrical or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
         b.   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagman gives or continues
to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
         c.   A railroad train approaching within approximately one thousand
five hundred feet (1,500') of the highway crossing emits a signal audible from
such distance, and such railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to
such crossing, is an immediate hazard; or
         d.   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing.
      2.   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed. (1994 Code § 15-543)
   B.   Certain Vehicles To Stop: The driver of any motor vehicle carrying
passengers for hire, or a "bus", as that term is defined in section
7-2-1 of this title, owned or operated by a licensed childcare facility while
carrying children, or of any school bus carrying any school child, or of any
vehicle carrying explosive substances or flammable liquids as a cargo or part
of a cargo, or a commercial motor vehicle required to be placarded for
hazardous materials, before crossing at grade any track or tracks of railroad,
shall stop such vehicle within fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen feet
(15') from the nearest rail of such railroad and, while so stopped, shall
listen and look in both directions along such track for any approaching train
and for signals indicating the approach of a train, except as hereinafter
provided, and shall not proceed until he can do so safely. After stopping as
required herein and upon proceeding when it is safe to do so, the driver of any
such vehicle shall cross only in such gear of the vehicle that there will be no
necessity for changing gears while traversing such crossing, and the driver
shall not shift gears while crossing the track or tracks. No stop need be made
at any such crossing where a police officer or traffic control signal directs
traffic to proceed. (1994 Code § 15-544; amd. 2004 Code)
7-5-15: PLAY STREETS 1
:
   A.   Authority To Establish: The town personnel, subject to direction by the
board of trustees, if any, shall have authority to declare any street or part
thereof a play street and have placed appropriate signs or devices in the
roadway indicating and helping to protect the same. (1994 Code § 15-528)
   B.   Driving On Play Streets: Whenever authorized signs are erected
indicating any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a
vehicle upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles
having business or whose residences are within such closed area, and then such
drivers shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such street or
portion thereof. (1994 Code § 15-529)
 
Notes
1 3. See also section 8-1-6 of this code.
7-5-16: MISCELLANEOUS PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicles: No person shall board or alight
from any vehicle while such vehicle is in motion. (1994 Code § 15-538)
   B.   Unlawful Riding: No person shall ride on any vehicle or upon any
portion thereof not designed or intended for use of passengers. This subsection
shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or
to persons riding within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise. (1994
Code § 15-539)
   C.   Toy Vehicles:
      1.   Use On Streets Prohibited Generally; Crossing Streets: No person
upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, skateboard, toy
vehicle or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street in a crosswalk. While so crossing, such person shall be granted all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
This subsection C1 shall not apply upon any street while set aside as a play
street authorized by ordinance 1
. (1994 Code §§ 15-527, 15-1511)
      2.   Clinging To Vehicle: No person riding upon any bicycle 2
, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself
to any vehicle upon a roadway. (1994 Code § 15-537)
 
Notes
1 4. See section
  7-5-15 of this chapter.
2 5. See also subsection
  7-10-3G of this title.
7-5-17: RECKLESS, CARELESS, NEGLIGENT DRIVING:
   A.   Reckless Driving: It shall be deemed reckless driving for any person to
drive a motor vehicle in a careless or wanton manner without regard for the
safety of persons or property or in violation of the conditions outlined in
section
7-5-4 of this chapter. (1994 Code § 15-514; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Careless, Negligent Driving:
      1.   No person shall drive, use, operate, park, cause to be parked, or
stop any vehicle:
         a.   In a careless manner;
         b.   In a negligent manner;
         c.   In such a manner as to endanger life, limb, persons or property;
or
         d.   In such a manner or condition as to interfere with the lawful
movement of traffic or use of the streets.
      2.   Every driver shall remain alert and give full attention to the safe
control and operation of his vehicle while it is in motion. Every driver of a
motor vehicle shall, upon stopping, or upon stopping and leaving the vehicle,
park the same in a careful and prudent manner and place so as not to interfere
with the operation of other vehicles or with pedestrians or other traffic.
Failure to comply with these requirements shall be deemed careless driving in
violation of this subsection.
      3.   Any driver who engages in any activity or does any act while driving
that interferes with the safe operation and control of his vehicle, or who
continues to operate his vehicle when any other person riding thereon or
therein engages in any activity or does any act which interferes with his
operation thereof, is guilty of careless driving.
      4.   A driver of a motor vehicle who collides with another vehicle or
with any person or property because of driving error or inattention is guilty
of careless driving. (1994 Code § 15-515)
7-5-18: DRIVING UNDER INFLUENCE OF INTOXICANTS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, "other intoxicating substance" or
"drug" means any "controlled dangerous substance" as defined in the uniform
controlled dangerous substances act 1
and any other substance, other than alcohol, which is capable of being
ingested, inhaled, injected or absorbed into the human body and is capable of
adversely affecting the central nervous system, vision, hearing or other
sensory or motor or functions. (1994 Code § 15-520)
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   It is unlawful and punishable as provided in this section for any
person to drive, operate, or be in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
within this town who:
         a.   Has a blood or breath alcohol concentration of eight-hundredths
(0.08) or more at the time of a test of such person's blood or breath
administered within two (2) hours after the arrest of such person;
         b.   Is under the influence of alcohol;
         c.   Is under the influence of any intoxicating substance other than
alcohol which may render such person incapable of safely driving or operating a
motor vehicle; or
         d.   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and any other
intoxicating substance which may render such person incapable of safely driving
or operating a motor vehicle.
      2.   The fact that any person charged with a violation of this section is
or has been lawfully entitled to use alcohol or a controlled dangerous
substance or any other intoxicating substance shall not constitute a defense
against any charge of violating this section. (2004 Code)
   C.   Admissible Evidence: Upon the trial of any criminal action or
proceeding arising out of acts alleged to have been committed by any person
while driving or in actual physical control of a motor vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol or intoxicating liquor, evidence of the amount of alcohol
or intoxicating liquor in the person's blood as shown by a chemical analysis of
his blood or breath is admissible. (1994 Code § 15-520; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   Reinstatement Of Driving Privilege: The department of public safety is
hereby authorized to reinstate any suspended or revoked driving privilege when
the person meets the statutory requirements which affect the existing driving
privilege. (2004 Code)
   E.   Penalties:
      1.   General Penalty: Every person who is convicted of a violation of
this section for operating a motor vehicle under the influence of alcohol or
intoxicating liquor shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1994 Code § 15-520)
      2.   Substance Abuse Evaluation And Assessment Of Program: Any person who
is found guilty of a violation of the provisions of this section shall be
ordered to participate in an alcohol and drug substance abuse evaluation and
assessment program offered by a facility or qualified practitioner certified by
the department of mental health and substance abuse services for the purpose of
evaluating and assessing the receptivity to treatment and prognosis of the
person.
      3.   Community Service: Any person who is found guilty of a violation of
the provisions of this section who has been sentenced by the court to perform
any type of community service shall not be permitted to pay a fine in lieu of
performing the community service. (2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 6. 63 OS § 2-101 et seq.
***** CHAPTER 6
PARKING REGULATIONS *****
SECTION:
7-6-1: Method Of Parking
7-6-2: Operation Of Vehicle During And After Parking
7-6-3: Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
7-6-4: General Parking Restrictions
7-6-5: Parking Regulations On Specific Streets
7-6-6: Parking In Areas Designated For Persons With Disabilities
7-6-7: Double Parking
7-6-8: Parking For Emergency Vehicles
7-6-9: Bus And Truck Parking
7-6-10: Loading And Unloading
7-6-11: Removing Enforcement Markings Prohibited
7-6-1: METHOD OF PARKING:
   A.   Parallel Parking: Except as otherwise provided in this section, every
vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall
be so stopped or parked with the right hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to
and within eighteen inches (18") of the right hand curb. Every vehicle stopped
and parked upon the left hand side of a one-way street where there are adjacent
curbs shall be parked or stopped with the left hand wheels parallel to and
within eighteen inches (18") of the left hand curb. (1994 Code § 15-620)
   B.   Angle Parking:
      1.   Town personnel, subject to direction of the board of trustees, may
determine upon what streets and parts of streets angle parking will be
permitted, and authority shall continue until changed, permitting angle parking
on any such street or part of street, and the angle parking markings or signs
are amended.
      2.   On those streets which have been so signed or marked for angle
parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the
curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings.
      3.   Angle parking is not permitted on any state or federal aid highway,
unless the state department of highways has determined that the roadway is of
sufficient width to permit angle parking without interfering with the free
movement of traffic. (1994 Code § 15-622; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Parking In Marked Spaces: In an area where parking spaces have been
marked off on the surface of the street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park
within a parking space as thus marked off and not on or over a line delineating
a space. (1994 Code § 15-623)
   D.   Width Of Roadway: No person shall park a vehicle upon a street or alley
in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten
feet (10') of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular
traffic. (1994 Code § 15-624)
   E.   Brakes Set; Motor Off; Wheels Turned:
      1.   The person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall not permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine and effectively
setting the brake thereon and, when standing upon any grade, turning the front
wheels to the curb or side of the street. (1994 Code § 15-608)
      2.   Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked vehicles. No driver of a
motor vehicle shall leave the vehicle with the motor running while parked.
Animals left or parked on the streets shall be securely hitched. (1994 Code §
15-621)
7-6-2: OPERATION OF VEHICLE DURING AND AFTER PARKING:
   A.   Starting Stopped Vehicle: No person shall start a vehicle which is
stopped, standing or parked unless and until such movement can be made with
reasonable safety. (1994 Code § 15-533)
   B.   Opening And Closing Vehicle Door: No person shall open the door of a
motor vehicle on the side available to moving traffic unless and until it is
reasonably safe to do so. No person shall leave a door open on the side of a
motor vehicle available to moving traffic to load or unload passengers. (1994
Code § 15-535)
   C.   Moving Parked Vehicle 1 : No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully
under his control into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such
distance as is lawful. (1994 Code § 15-601)
 
Notes
1 See also subsection
  6-5A-4B of this code.
7-6-3: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid a conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or ordinance or
the directions of a police officer or traffic control device, in any of the
following places:
   A.   On a sidewalk;
   B.   In front of a public or private driveway;
   C.   Within an intersection;
   D.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant 1 , except in a parking
space officially marked;
   E.   On a crosswalk;
   F.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection except in a
parking space officially marked;
   G.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   H.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet (30')
of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless
the town indicates a different length by signs or markings;
   I.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   J.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire station
or, on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within
seventy five feet (75') of such entrance when properly signposted;
   K.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   L.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street 2 ;
   M.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within a
highway underpass;
   N.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping, standing or
parking; and
   O.   At any other place prohibited by this code or law. (1994 Code § 15-601)
 
Notes
1 See also subsection
  6-5A-5C2 of this code.
2 See also section
  7-6-7 of this chapter.
7-6-4: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Obstructing Traffic:
      1.   No person shall park a vehicle within a street or alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as to prohibit the free movement of authorized
emergency vehicles or vehicular traffic.
      2.   Any vehicle parked upon the public streets or rights of way shall be
parked so as not to obstruct the view of any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic control signal by oncoming traffic. (1994 Code § 15-603)
   B.   Parking On Left:
      1.   Town personnel, subject to direction of the board of trustees, may
determine when standing or parking may be permitted upon the left hand side of
any one-way roadway and to have signs or marks placed giving notice thereof.
      2.   In the event a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways
and traffic is restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person
shall stand or park a vehicle upon the left hand side of such one-way roadway,
unless signs or marks are placed to permit such standing or parking. (1994 Code
§ 15-606)
   C.   Parking On Private Property 1 : No person shall park a vehicle on the
private property of another without the consent of the owner of the property,
his agent or tenant. Any unoccupied vehicle parked in violation of this
subsection may, upon complaint of the property owner, his agent or tenant, be
removed and impounded by the police; and the vehicle owner must pay removal,
storage and impounding fees. (1994 Code § 15-607)
   D.   Parking In Private Spaces 2 : The parking, leaving or keeping of
vehicles, either with or without occupants, upon real property owned or leased
for use of hotels or business establishments as private parking places, without
permission of the owner or lessee, as the case may be, is hereby prohibited.
Any vehicle parked or left in violation of this subsection shall, upon the
complaint of the owner or lessee of the property, be removed from the premises
by the police or on the order of any police officer, at the expense of the
owner of the vehicle. Such removal may be accomplished by the police department
or by a police department order directing any person operating a towing service
to pull the vehicle to his garage or place of business where it shall be held
in the custody of the police department until the towing charges and the fine
and costs, if any, are paid. (1994 Code § 15-610)
   E.   Alleys: No person shall at any time stop, stand or park a vehicle
within an alley except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device or
in case of emergency, except for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise, with the maximum time permitted for loading
or unloading being thirty (30) minutes 3 . However, such vehicle must be headed
in the proper direction in the alley, and it must be parked on the right half
of one-way alleys. (1994 Code § 15-603; amd. 2004 Code)
   F.   Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited: No person shall park his
vehicle upon any street or highway for the principal purpose of:
      1.   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
      2.   Displaying advertising or displaying merchandise 4 ;
      3.   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency; and
      4.   Selling merchandise or any other thing from vehicles without
appropriate permit or license from the town 5 . (1994 Code § 15-604)
 
Notes
1 See also subsection
  6-5A-6C of this code.
2 See also subsection
  6-5A-6C of this code.
3 See also subsection
  7-6-10C1 of this chapter.
4 See also section
  8-1-2 of this code.
  See title 4, chapter 4 of this code, peddlers, solicitors and itinerant
5 vendors; see also section
  8-1-2 of this code.
7-6-5: PARKING REGULATIONS ON SPECIFIC STREETS:
   The town board of trustees, by resolution, may establish parking time limits
or prohibit parking on designated streets by having appropriate signs placed
thereon. When such signs are in place, no person shall park a vehicle in
violation thereof. (1994 Code § 15-609)
7-6-6: PARKING IN AREAS DESIGNATED FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
   A.   Restrictions: No person shall be permitted to place or park a motor
vehicle in any parking space that is designated and posted as a reserved area
for parking of motor vehicles of a physically disabled person, unless such
vehicle is eligible for a detachable insignia of a physically disabled person
issued by the state department of public safety as provided for in 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 15-112, as amended, and such insignia is displayed as provided
in accordance with state law or regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   B.   Application Of Provisions: The provisions of this section shall apply
to any such designated and posted reserved area on public property or private
property accessible to the public and where the public is invited.
   C.   Penalties: Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, subject to the maximum penalty allowed by state law. In
addition thereto, any person so convicted shall pay any and all reasonable and
necessary charges incurred by the landowner or other person in having any motor
vehicle unlawfully parked hereunder removed from the property and stored. (1994
Code § 15-602)
7-6-7: DOUBLE PARKING 1 :
   A.   Prohibited Generally: No vehicle shall be double parked on any street
within the town limits except in compliance with the direction of a police
officer or traffic control device, or except when necessary to avoid conflict
with another vehicle.
   B.   Delivery Vehicles Excepted: Delivery vehicles, either loading or
unloading, may double park in the right hand lane while in the process of
loading or unloading and making delivery to local business establishments;
provided, that the driver of the delivery vehicle shall keep a lookout for cars
and vehicles needing or attempting to move away from the curb and shall move
his delivery vehicle as soon as possible to permit the parked vehicles to be
moved. Such double parking shall be permitted only so long as both traffic
lanes are not blocked. (1994 Code § 15-625)
 
Notes
1 See also subsection
  7-6-3L of this chapter.
7-6-8: PARKING FOR EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Areas Designated; Parking Restricted: Town personnel, subject to any
directions which the town board of trustees may give, are authorized to
designate streets or portions thereof where parking is limited to authorized
emergency vehicles. When signs are in place giving notice of such limitation,
it shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle, except an authorized
emergency vehicle, upon any such street or portion thereof. (1994 Code § 15-
612)
   B.   Fire Lanes: Town personnel, when the public safety shall require, are
authorized and directed to prohibit parking upon private property used for
shopping centers, schools, hospitals, nursing homes, restaurants and places of
public entertainment within zones to be clearly designated and defined by
appropriate signs, when the same is necessary for the establishment of fire
lanes to avoid obstruction of free passage and access. No person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle, except an authorized emergency vehicle, within such
prohibited fire lanes, except on direction and by authority of a police
officer. (1994 Code § 15-611)
7-6-9: BUS AND TRUCK PARKING:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section:
   BUS: Any vehicle designed for carrying more than eighteen (18) passengers
and used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation, excluding school buses owned and operated by public or private
schools or school districts, and church buses.
   TRUCK: Any truck above one ton capacity or truck-tractor with or without
semitrailer or pole trailer attached or any other combination of vehicles.
   B.   Parking In Residential Areas: It is unlawful for any truck, bus or
commercial vehicle to park on any street in the residential areas between the
hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., except in areas
specifically designated permitting such truck parking.
   C.   Parking Permits: It is unlawful for any truck, bus or commercial
vehicle to park on any street in residential areas without a permit issued from
the town of Wayne.
      1.   The board of trustees shall set the cost of permits by motion or
resolution.
      2.   All permits shall become due for renewal on July 1 of each year.
(Ord. 2005-002, 5-2-2005)
7-6-10: LOADING AND UNLOADING:
   A.   Authority To Designate Loading Zones: Town personnel, subject to
direction of the board of trustees, may determine the location of passenger and
freight curb loading zones, and shall have placed and maintained appropriate
signs indicating the same and stating the hours during which the provisions of
this section are applicable. (1994 Code § 15-1101)
   B.   Parking In Passenger Loading Zone: No person shall stop, stand or park
a vehicle for any purpose or period of time other than for the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers in any place marked as a passenger curb
loading zone during hours when the regulations applicable to such curb loading
zone are effective, and then only for a period not to exceed ten (10) minutes.
(1994 Code § 15-1102; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Parking In Freight Loading Zone:
1. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick up and
loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone during
hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case
shall the stop for loading or unloading of materials exceed thirty (30) minutes
1 .
      2.   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials which
is waiting to enter or about to enter such zone. (1994 Code § 15-1103)
   D.   Permit To Back To Curb:
      1.   Town personnel are authorized to issue special permits to permit the
backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of such permit.
      2.   Such permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of the real
property or to the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such person the
privilege as therein stated and authorized herein. (1994 Code § 15-1104)
      3.   The town clerk-treasurer or chief of police may revoke such permits
at any time.
      4.   It is unlawful for any permittee or other person to violate any of
the special terms or conditions of any permit issued under this subsection.
(1994 Code § 15-1104; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 See also subsection 7-6-4E of this chapter.
7-6-11: REMOVING ENFORCEMENT MARKINGS PROHIBITED:
   No person, with intent to extend the time during which a motor vehicle can
be parked at a time restricted parking space, shall remove, erase, obliterate,
smudge or otherwise delete or disfigure any chalk or any other mark or symbol
used by authorized employees of the town in connection with the enforcement of
motor vehicle parking restrictions. (1994 Code § 15-605)
***** CHAPTER 7
PEDESTRIANS *****
SECTION:
7-7-1: Applicability Of Traffic Regulations
7-7-2: Drivers To Exercise Due Care
7-7-3: Right Of Way
7-7-4: Pedestrians Crossing Roadways
7-7-5: Pedestrians Walking Along Roadways
7-7-6: Soliciting Prohibited
7-7-1: APPLICABILITY OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals as declared in
this title. At all other places, pedestrians shall be granted those rights and
be subject to the restrictions stated in this title. (1994 Code § 15-1501)
   B.   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed. (1994 Code § 15-1507)
7-7-2: DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE:
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this title, every driver of a vehicle
shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway, shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway. (1994 Code § 15-1510)
7-7-3: RIGHT OF WAY:
   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger. (1994 Code § 15-1502)
7-7-4: PEDESTRIANS CROSSING ROADWAYS:
   A.   Prohibited Crossings: Between adjacent intersections at which traffic
control signals are in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place
except in a crosswalk. (1994 Code § 15-1506)
   B.   Leaving Curb Suddenly: No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or
other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so
close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. (1994 Code § 15-1502)
   C.   Use Right Half Of Crosswalk: Pedestrians shall move, whenever
practicable, upon the right half of crosswalks. (1994 Code § 15-1503)
   D.   Crossing At Right Angles: No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any
place other than by route at right angles to the curb or by the shortest route
to the opposite curb except in a crosswalk. (1994 Code § 15-1504)
   E.   Pedestrians To Yield:
      1.   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an intersection shall yield the right of way to all
vehicles upon the roadway.
      2.   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian
tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right
of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
      3.   This subsection shall not apply under the conditions stated in
subsection A of this section when pedestrians are prohibited from crossing at
certain designated places. (1994 Code § 15-1505)
7-7-5: PEDESTRIANS WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS:
   Where sidewalks are provided, no pedestrian shall walk along and upon an
adjacent roadway. Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking
along and upon a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of
the roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction and shall yield to approaching vehicles. (1994 Code § 15-1508)
7-7-6: SOLICITING PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride, donation, employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   B.   No person shall stand on or in proximity to a street or highway for the
purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or
about to be parked on a street or highway. (1994 Code § 15-1509)
***** CHAPTER 8
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION *****
SECTION:
7-8-1: Compliance With State Law
7-8-2: Prohibited Restrictions On Certain Equipment And Loads
7-8-3: Obstruction To Driver's View And Driving Mechanism
7-8-4: Windshield Wipers
7-8-5: Muffler; Cutout
7-8-6: Lights
7-8-7: Child Restraint
7-8-8: Seat Belts
7-8-9: Vehicle Size, Weight And Load
7-8-1: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
   Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the town shall be equipped as
required by 47 Oklahoma Statutes. No person shall operate a vehicle upon a
street of the town which is not equipped as required by state law. No person
shall fail to use such equipment in the manner required by state law, or use it
in a manner prohibited by state law. (1994 Code § 15-301)
7-8-2: PROHIBITED RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN EQUIPMENT AND LOADS:
   A.   No vehicle or object which injures or is likely to injure the surface
of a street shall be driven or moved on any street. Vehicles equipped with
metal tires or lugs are specifically prohibited. (1994 Code § 15-401)
   B.   No person shall drive any vehicle in such condition, so constructed, or
so loaded as to cause delay or be likely to cause delay in traffic, or as to
constitute a hazard to persons or property, except by permit issued by the town
and in accordance with the terms of such permit.
   C.   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street, unless such vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
sifting, leaking, blowing or otherwise escaping therefrom; except, that sand
may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction or water or other
substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining such
roadway.
   D.   No person shall operate on any street any vehicle with any load, unless
the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent the
covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a hazard to
other users of the highway. Any vehicle loaded with sand, cinders or other
loose materials susceptible to blowing or escaping by reason of wind shall have
such load covered or dampened so as to prevent the blowing or escaping of the
load from the vehicle.
   E.   Subsections B, C and D of this section shall not apply to trucks loaded
with livestock, poultry or agricultural products only, except baled
agricultural products; however, any such trucks shall be so constructed or
loaded as to prevent such livestock or poultry from escaping therefrom. (1994
Code § 15-402)
7-8-3: OBSTRUCTION TO DRIVER'S VIEW AND DRIVING MECHANISM:
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded or when there are
in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three (3), as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   B.   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his control
over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. (1994 Code § 15-536)
   C.   No person shall drive any motor vehicle with any sign, poster or other
nontransparent material upon the front windshield, side wings or side or rear
windows of such vehicle which obstructs the driver's clear view of the street
or highway or any intersecting street or highway. (1994 Code § 15-304)
7-8-4: WINDSHIELD WIPERS:
   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device for
cleaning rain, snow or other moisture from the windshield. Such device shall be
so constructed as to be controlled or operated by the driver of the vehicle.
Every windshield wiper upon a motor vehicle shall be maintained in good working
order. (1994 Code § 15-304)
7-8-5: MUFFLER; CUTOUT:
   Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped with a muffler in good
working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise.
No person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a highway. No person shall modify the exhaust system of a motor
vehicle in any manner which will amplify or increase the noise or sound emitted
louder than that emitted by the muffler originally installed on the vehicle.
(1994 Code § 15-302)
7-8-6: LIGHTS:
   Headlights shall be used between the hours of thirty (30) minutes after
sunset and thirty (30) minutes before sunrise, or at other time when, due to
insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles
on the highway are not clearly discernible at a distance of five hundred feet
(500') ahead. Parking lights shall not be used. If lights are needed,
headlights shall be required. When headlights are required, only the low beam
or dimmers shall be used. (1994 Code § 15-545; amd. 2004 Code)
7-8-7: CHILD RESTRAINT:
   A.   Definition: As used in this section, "child passenger restraint system"
means an infant or child passenger restraint system that meets the federal
standards for crash tested restraint systems as set by the United States
department of transportation.
   B.   Restraint Required: Every driver, when transporting a child under four
(4) years of age weighing sixty (60) pounds or less in a motor vehicle operated
in the town, shall properly secure the child in a child passenger restraint or
in a seat belt in the rear of the motor vehicle. Children at least four (4)
years of age but younger than thirteen (13) years of age shall be protected by
use of a child passenger restraint system or a seat belt. (1994 Code § 15-541;
amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Exemptions From Provisions: This section shall not apply to:
      1.   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle, or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to town
ordinance, state statute, or federal law;
      2.   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle; or
      3.   A driver of a vehicle if all of the seat belts in the vehicle are in
use; or
      4.   The transportation of children who, for medical reasons, are unable
to be placed in such devices; or
      5.   A nonresident driver transporting a child in the town.
   D.   Enforcement:
      1.   Warning Of Violation: A law enforcement officer is hereby authorized
to stop a vehicle if it appears that the driver of the vehicle has violated the
provisions of this section and to give an oral warning to the driver. The
warning shall advise the driver of the possible danger to children resulting
from the failure to install or use a child passenger restraint system or seat
belts in the motor vehicle.
      2.   Violations; Certain Information Restricted:
         a.   A violation of the provisions of this section shall not be
admissible as evidence in any civil action or proceeding for damages.
         b.   In any action brought by or on behalf of an infant for personal
injuries or wrongful death sustained in a motor vehicle collision, the failure
of any person to have the infant properly restrained in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall not be used in aggravation or mitigation of
damages.
   E.   Penalties: Any person convicted of violating this section shall be
punished by a fine of ten dollars ($10.00), or the maximum amount allowed by
state law, whichever is greater, and shall pay court costs. The fine shall be
suspended in the case of the first offense upon proof of purchase or
acquisition by loan of a child passenger restraint system. The fine need not be
suspended if the child was being transported in a motor vehicle already
equipped with a child passenger restraint system. (1994 Code § 15-541)
7-8-8: SEAT BELTS:
   A.   Requirements For Front Seat Passengers: Every operator and front seat
passenger of a passenger car operated in the town shall wear a properly
adjusted and fastened safety seat belt system required to be installed in the
motor vehicle when manufactured pursuant to federal motor vehicle safety
standard 208 1 . For the purposes of this section, "passenger car" shall not
include trucks, truck-tractors, recreational vehicles, motorcycles, motorized
bicycles or vehicles used primarily for farm use and licensed pursuant to state
law, 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1134.
   B.   Exemptions From Provisions:
      1.   This section shall not apply to an operator or passenger of a
passenger car in which the operator or passenger possesses a written
verification from a physician licensed in the state that he is unable to wear a
safety seat belt system for medical reasons. The issuance of such verification
by a physician, in good faith, shall not give rise to, nor shall such physician
thereby incur, any liability whatsoever in damages or otherwise, to any person
injured by reason of such failure to wear a safety seat belt system.
      2.   This section shall not apply to an operator of a motor vehicle who
is a route carrier of the U.S. postal service.
   C.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violating this section shall be
punished by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code or by applicable fine schedule set by the town, or the
maximum amount allowed by state law, whichever is greater, and shall pay court
costs. (1994 Code § 15-542; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 49 CFR § 571.208.
7-8-9: VEHICLE SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD:
   No person shall drive or convey through any street or bridge any vehicle,
the width, height, length, weight or load of which exceeds that authorized by
state law, or which vehicle exceeds the width, height, length, weight or load
limits established by the town, county or state as indicated by appropriate
signs erected on the street, road or bridge. (1994 Code § 15-303)
***** CHAPTER 9
MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR SCOOTERS, GOLF CARTS AND ATVs *****
SECTION:
7-9-1: License Required For Motorcycles
7-9-2: Operation Of Motorcycle And Motor Scooter
7-9-3: Equipment Required
7-9-4: Handlebars
7-9-5: Helmet Required For Persons Under Eighteen
7-9-6: Golf Carts And ATVs
7-9-1: LICENSE REQUIRED FOR MOTORCYCLES:
   All operators of motorcycles or motor driven cycles shall have a current,
valid license issued by the state and shall conform to any specific restriction
contained thereon. (1994 Code § 15-1304)
7-9-2: OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLE AND MOTOR SCOOTER:
   A.   Prohibited Operation: No person shall operate a motorcycle or motor
driven cycle, including a motor scooter or motor driven bicycle, on a street in
the town during a time when state law prohibits the operation of such vehicle.
(1994 Code § 15-1301)
   B.   Carrying Passengers:
      1.   No driver of a two (2) wheel or three (3) wheel motor vehicle or
motor driven bicycle shall carry any other person on, upon or within such
vehicle on any street in the town, except as hereinafter provided. (1994 Code §
15-1301; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   If any two (2) wheel or three (3) wheel motor vehicle with a wheel
diameter of twelve inches (12") or greater or any bicycle 1  shall have either
a double seating device with double footrests or a sidecar attachment providing
a separate seat space within such sidecar attachment for each person riding
therein so that such person shall be seated entirely within the body of the
sidecar, it shall be permissible for an operator who has attained the age of
sixteen (16) or older to carry a passenger.
      3.   A demonstration ride by a licensed dealer or his employee is
excepted from the provisions hereof.
   C.   Riding On Sidewalks: No motorcycle or motor scooter shall be ridden
upon any sidewalk.
   D.   Clinging To Moving Vehicles: No rider of a motorcycle or motor scooter
shall hold to any moving vehicle for the purpose of being propelled.
   E.   Overtaking, Passing Vehicles: No driver of a motorcycle, motor scooter
or bicycle 2  shall pass other vehicles between lanes of traffic traveling in
the same direction, authorized emergency vehicles excepted.
   F.   Speed Restrictions:
      1.   No person shall operate any motorcycle or any motor scooter at a
speed greater than the speed limit legally posted.
      2.   In no event nor at any time may an operator under the age of sixteen
(16) years operate a motorcycle or motor scooter at a speed greater than thirty
five (35) miles per hour.
   G.   Ride On Permanent Seat: A person operating a motorcycle or motor driven
cycle shall ride only on the permanent and regular seat attached thereto. (1994
Code § 15-1301)
 
Notes
1 See chapter 10 of this title.
2 See chapter 10 of this title.
7-9-3: EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
   The following equipment shall be required on all motorcycles and all motor
scooters, except when operated on actual trail rides conducted outside of
public streets, roads and highways: (1994 Code § 15-302; amd. 2004 Code)
   A.   Rearview Mirrors: Two (2) mirrors, containing a reflective surface of
not less than three inches (3") in diameter, mounted one on each side of the
vehicle and positioned so as to enable the operator to clearly view the roadway
for a distance of two hundred feet (200') to the rear of his vehicle.
   B.   Windshield: A windshield of sufficient quality, size and thickness to
protect the operator from foreign objects; except, that in lieu of such
windshield, the operator shall wear goggles or face shield of material and
design to protect him from foreign objects.
   C.   Brakes: Brakes adequate to control the movement of the vehicle and to
stop and hold such vehicles, including two (2) separate means of applying the
brakes, one of which is effective to apply the brakes to the front wheel and
one of which is effective to apply the brakes to the rear wheels.
   D.   Speedometer: A properly operating speedometer capable of registering at
least the maximum legal speed limit for the vehicle.
   E.   Fender: A fender over each wheel. All fenders shall be of the type
provided by the manufacturer. (1994 Code § 15.302)
   F.   Lights: At least one lighted headlamp, but not more than two (2)
lighted headlamps, at least one taillight, at least one stop lamp on the rear
of the vehicle, and at least one rear reflector, all of which shall comply with
state law.
   G.   Muffler: An exhaust system which has not been modified to increase
motor noise greater than that of the original muffler equipment provided by the
manufacturer of the vehicle. (1994 Code § 15-1302; amd. 2004 Code)
   H.   Horns: A horn which shall comply with the requirements of state law.
(2004 Code)
7-9-4: HANDLEBARS:
   Handlebars on motorcycles and motor scooters shall not exceed twelve inches
(12") in height, measured from the crown or point of attachment. (1994 Code §
15-1301)
7-9-5: HELMET REQUIRED FOR PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN:
   No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall operate or ride upon any
vehicle covered under this chapter, unless such person is equipped with and
wearing on the head a crash helmet of a type which complies with standards
established by 49 CFR section 571.218. (1994 Code § 15-1303; amd. 2004 Code)
7-9-6: GOLF CARTS AND ATVs:
   A.   Conditions:
      1.   Speed: No person shall operate a golf cart within the town limits or
on trail or street or other public way at a speed greater than any posted
limit.
a. Any golf cart which is not able to attain the speed of twenty five (25)
miles per hour must display a "SLOW Moving Vehicle" sign.
      2.   Equipment Restrictions: No golf cart may be operated on any street
within the town of Wayne limits unless it conforms to all noise, registration
and other equipment requirements as stated in the Oklahoma Statutes or this
code.
      3.   Headlight And Taillight: Every golf cart operating with the town,
upon any public streets must display a lighted headlight and taillight at all
times, driven only during daylight hours, and said lights must conform to the
requirements of this section.
         a.   Headlight: Shall be of a white or clear light and must be capable
of illuminating the road ahead so that you could be observed at a distance of
five hundred feet (500'). Headlights must be properly adjusted, as not to
interfere with the operation of other vehicles on the roadway.
         b.   Taillight: Shall be red in color and be observable to distance of
five hundred feet (500').
      4.   Registration/Inspections: In addition to any other registration
requirements that may be imposed by the state, an annual municipal use permit
is required to operate any golf cart within town limits. The fee for this
permit shall be reviewed annually and posted by the town clerk on the bulletin
board within the town hall if there are any changes.
         a.   Permit: Upon successful inspection of any golf carts a use permit
shall be issued allowing it to be operated upon city streets for a period of
one year. Such permit shall be plainly visible on the front cowling as to be
plainly seen by a passing patrol officer.
            (1)   The annual use permit shall be valid from July 1 through June
30 of each fiscal year.
            (2)   The use permit fee will be twenty five dollars ($25.00).
         b.   Inspection Requirements:
            (1)   The golf cart shall have proof of ownership and insurance
present at time of an inspection.
            (2)   The application form for that purpose must be completed and
signed by the owner.
            (3)   The proper fee must be paid to the town clerk prior to
issuance of the permit.
            (4)   The vehicle must meet all inspection requirements prior to
any permit being issued.
               (A)   There are no broken, loose or unsafe parts hanging from
your vehicle.
               (B)   The golf cart owner's driver's license is not suspended or
revoked.
               (C)   All of the required lights function properly.
               (D)   All equipment required to operate your vehicle is present
and in good working condition.
               (E)   There are no modifications that would make operation of
your vehicle unsafe or modified for racing.
               (F)   Operation must not occur on any state or federal highway.
      Note: Permit requirements can be obtained in advance from a member of the
town of Wayne police department. The permit application fee is a service fee in
payment for the inspection of vehicles and related paperwork. The application
fee is nonrefundable.
   B.   Unattended Vehicles: No person shall leave or allow any golf cart upon
any sidewalk, pedestrianway or upon the (terrace) area between the sidewalk and
curb line of any street in the town.
   C.   Operation On Sidewalks Prohibited: No person shall operate a golf cart
upon any sidewalk, pedestrianway or upon the terrace area between the sidewalk
and the curb line of any street in the town of Wayne.
   D.   Restrictions On Operators Of Golf Carts: Operation by nonlicensed or
youthful operators is prohibited.
      1.   No person who is not lawfully licensed, under current driver's
license suspension, revocation or cancellation for any reason, may operate a
golf cart upon town streets within the corporate limits of the town of Wayne.
   E.   Banning Minibikes/ATVs (Three-Wheelers And Four-Wheelers And Similar
Vehicles): This section is designed to ban the use of minibikes and ATVs
(three-wheelers and four-wheelers and similar vehicles). No person shall be
allowed to operate any of the aforementioned vehicles upon town streets. Anyone
caught operating them will be subject to a fine no less than two hundred forty
four dollars ($244.00) up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per
incident.
   F.   Enforcement:
      1.   Enforcement: This section shall be enforced by any law enforcement
officer of the town of Wayne, McClain County, Oklahoma, or such other local
county or state law enforcement.
      2.   Uniform Traffic Citation: The uniform traffic citation promulgated
under the Oklahoma state statutes, shall be used for violations of this chapter
relating to highway use except as herein provided.
      3.   Parking Violations: The centralized traffic citation shall be used
for enforcement of violations of rules of the road relating to parking of
vehicles.
      4.   Other Violations: All violations of this section not described in
subsection F2 or F3 of this section shall be enforced in accordance with
Oklahoma Statutes. Stipulations of guilty or no contest may be made as provided
in Oklahoma Statutes in substantially the form provided in the uniform traffic
citation within five (5) days of the date of the citation for such violation.
Payment may also be made under Oklahoma Statutes. Such deposits shall include
the town of Wayne municipal court costs listed in title 1 of this code. (Ord.
7-9-6, 5-5-2009)
***** CHAPTER 10
BICYCLES *****
SECTION:
7-10-1: Application Of Provisions
7-10-2: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
7-10-3: Rules Of Operation
7-10-4: Parking Bicycles
7-10-5: Equipment Requirements
7-10-6: Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian
7-10-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a bicycle
is operated upon any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use
of bicycles, subject to the exceptions stated herein. (1994 Code § 15-1401)
   B.   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver
of a vehicle by the laws of the state declaring rules applicable to the driver
of a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this chapter and except as to
those provisions of laws and ordinances which, by their nature, can have no
application. (1994 Code § 15-1402)
7-10-2: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to vehicles
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right turn,
left turn or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey
the direction of any such sign except where such person dismounts from the
bicycle to make such turn, in which event, such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians. (1994 Code § 15-1403)
7-10-3: RULES OF OPERATION:
   A.   Riding On Bicycles:
      1.   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
      2.   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped 1 .
      3.   A person shall ride a bicycle only in the manner in which it is
designed and equipped to carry the person. (1994 Code § 15-1404)
   B.   Riding On Roads And Bicycle Paths 2 :
      1.   Roadways:
         a.   Ride On Right: Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising
due care when passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same
direction.
         b.   Riding Abreast: Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not
ride more than two (2) persons abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set
aside exclusively for the use of bicycles.
      2.   Available Bicycle Paths: Wherever a usable path for bicycles has
been provided adjacent to a roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and
shall not use the roadway. (1994 Code § 15-1405)
   C.   Speed Limit: No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than
is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing. (1994 Code § 15-
1406)
   D.   Emerging From Alley Or Driveway: The operator of a bicycle emerging
from an alley, driveway or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yield the right of way to all
pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or sidewalk area and, upon entering the
roadway, shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway. (1994 Code § 15-1413)
   E.   Riding On Sidewalk:
      1.   Prohibited In Business District: No person shall ride a bicycle upon
a sidewalk in the business district.
      2.   Yield To Pedestrians: Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing the pedestrian.
      3.   Signs Posted: The town personnel may erect signs on any sidewalk or
roadway prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon. When such signs are in
place, no person shall disobey them. (1994 Code § 15-1409)
   F.   Carrying Articles: No person operating a bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle or article which prevents the rider from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars. (1994 Code § 15-1407)
   G.   Clinging To Vehicles Prohibited 3 : No person riding upon any bicycle
shall attach the same or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway. (1994 Code §
15-1411)
 
Notes
1 See subsection
  7-9-2B2 of this title.
2 See subsection
  7-9-2E of this title for overtaking and passing.
3 See also subsection
  7-5-16C2 of this title.
7-10-4: PARKING BICYCLES:
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic. (1994 Code § 15-1408)
7-10-5: EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lights And Reflector: Every bicycle in use at nighttime shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a
distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red
reflector on the rear of a type approved by the state department of public
safety which shall be visible from all distances from fifty feet (50') to three
hundred feet (300') to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of
headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a
distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
   B.   Brake: Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable
the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement. (1994
Code § 15-1410; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Signal Devices: No person shall operate a bicycle, unless it is
equipped with a bell or other device capable of giving a signal audible for a
distance of at least one hundred feet (100'); except, that a bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
(1994 Code § 15-1412)
7-10-6: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN:
   The parent of any minor child and the guardian of any ward who is a minor
shall not authorize or knowingly permit said child or ward to violate any of
the provisions of this chapter. (1994 Code § 15-1401; amd. 2004 Code)
***** CHAPTER 11
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES *****
SECTION:
7-11-1: Administration And Enforcement Of Provisions
7-11-2: Direction Of Traffic; Obedience Required
7-11-3: Parking Violations
7-11-4: Impoundment Of Vehicles
7-11-5: Permitting Violations
7-11-6: Violations Prohibited; Penalty
7-11-1: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   All traffic in the town shall be controlled by ordinances of the town
and the laws of the state relating thereto. (1994 Code § 15-1602)
   B.   It is the duty of all police officers of the police department to
enforce the street traffic regulations of the town and the state, to make
arrests for traffic violations, and to investigate accidents. (1994 Code § 15-
1601)
7-11-2: DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC; OBEDIENCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Direction Of Traffic:
      1.   Officers of the police department or such officers as are assigned
by the chief of police are authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand,
mechanical signals or signs in conformance with the provisions of this title.
      2.   In the event of a fire or other "emergency", as defined in section
7-2-1 of this title, or other unusual traffic conditions, to expedite traffic
or safeguard pedestrians, officers of the police department or fire department
may direct and take control of traffic as conditions may require and, as near
as practicable, follow the general provisions of this title.
      3.   Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire or
other emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat
or in the immediate vicinity. (1994 Code § 15-1601)
   B.   Obedience To Police And Fire Officials 1 : No person shall wilfully
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of a police officer
or fire department official. (1994 Code § 15-1604)
   C.   Directing By Unauthorized Person: No person shall direct or attempt to
direct traffic except police officers and other officers authorized by the
town. (1994 Code § 15-1602)
 
Notes
1 See also section
  6-5E-5 of this code.
7-11-3: PARKING VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Prima Facie Proof: In any prosecution charging a violation of any law
or regulation governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the
particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any
such law or regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the
complaint was, at the time of such violation, the registered owner of such
vehicle shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the
registered owner of such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred. (1994 Code § 15-613)
   B.   Citation Tags 1 : In cases where vehicles without drivers are parked or
stopped in violation of this title, police officers and other persons appointed
by the chief of police shall affix citation tags to the vehicles. A violator of
any provision of this title who has been given a citation tag and fails to
appear in accordance with the instructions of such tag shall be subject to a
separate offense as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1994 Code § 15-1802)
 
Notes
1 See also subsection
  1-8-13C of this code.
7-11-4: IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Purpose And Effect: The impoundment of vehicles under authority of this
title shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the
public peace, safety and welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and shall
be used generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention
and abatement of public nuisance arising from traffic law violations,
protection of the public rights in the use of town streets and thoroughfares
from obstructions placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for
safeguarding and protecting recovered stolen vehicles. (1994 Code § 15-1701)
   B.   Authority To Impound: Members of the police department are hereby
authorized, within the authority granted by subsection A of this section, to
impound vehicles under the provisions of this title. No impoundment shall be
valid unless made under order of an authorized police officer. (1994 Code § 15-
1702)
      1.   Disabled Vehicles: A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may
be impounded under the following circumstances:
         a.   If left unattended and improperly parked on a street or highway;
         b.   If left unattended longer than forty eight (48) hours on the
shoulder of any highway; or
         c.   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically
incapacitated to such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or
removal. (1994 Code § 15-1703)
      2.   Vehicle Creating Traffic Hazard: A vehicle left unattended upon any
street, alley or thoroughfare and so parked illegally as to constitute a
definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic shall be
impounded. (1994 Code § 15-1704)
      3.   Illegal Trespass By Vehicle:
         a.   An unattended vehicle trespassing on property of another may be
impounded when the required complaint has been properly made and filed as
provided in this subsection B3.
         b.   If the owner or legal occupant who complains shall sign a
complaint against the person parking the vehicle on the owner's or legal
occupant's property, or if the identity of the person parking the vehicle is
unknown, then the complaint may be filed against the registered owner of the
vehicle. The complaint shall be verified and shall allege that the complaining
party is the owner or legal occupant of the property upon which the vehicle is
parked or standing.
         c.   Upon filing of the complaint by the property owner or legal
occupant, and if there appears to be proper cause to believe a trespass has
occurred, the property owner or legal occupant of the property may cause the
vehicle to be impounded from the property and placed in storage. The police
department may also cause such vehicle to be impounded where the police
department determines that the location of the vehicle constitutes a threat to
the public health or safety or is a public traffic hazard. (1994 Code § 15-
1705)
      4.   Vehicle Blocking Fire Exit Or Hydrant: Any vehicle illegally parked
in such a manner that it blocks a fire escape ladder, device or exit, or blocks
ready access to a fire hydrant shall be impounded. (1994 Code § 15-1706)
      5.   Vehicle Unattended Or Disabled: Any unattended vehicle illegally
parked in any street intersection shall be impounded. A disabled vehicle in an
intersection with the person in charge of the vehicle being present shall be
moved out of the intersection and to the nearest available legal parking space
at the street curbing. (1994 Code § 15-1707)
      6.   Stolen Vehicle:
         a.   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered
owner cannot be found within a reasonable time not exceeding one hour, or
cannot be determined from the registration or other identifying medium in the
vehicle or from records or information available from reports of stolen cars,
the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place of impoundment, and
the registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the location of the
place of impoundment as soon as possible by the police department.
         b.   If the registered owner is identified, located and notified of
the recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make
his own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within the period of one
hour from the time he is actually notified of its recovery, and if the owner is
unable or unwilling to effect the removal within the time specified, the
vehicle may be impounded. (1994 Code § 15-1708)
      7.   Arrest And Detention Of Driver: Whenever the driver or person in
charge of any vehicle is placed under arrest and taken into custody and
detained by police under circumstances which leaves or will leave a vehicle
unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle may be impounded. (1994 Code §
15-1709)
      8.   Unlicensed Vehicle: Any vehicle on public roads, streets or other
public places which does not have a current state license tag may be impounded
by the police. (1994 Code § 15-1710)
   C.   Place Of Impoundment: Every vehicle that is impounded under the
provisions of this title shall be removed to the nearest garage or place of
safekeeping designated by the chief of police, and to no other place. (1994
Code § 15-1711)
   D.   Duration Of Impoundment; Release Of Vehicles:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided, any vehicle impounded under the
authority of this title shall be stored and held until an order for its release
is received from an officer of the traffic violations bureau 1  or municipal
court or other proper police officer.
      2.   The order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be conditioned
upon the payment by the person to whom the release is issued of all impoundment
costs and accrued storage charges assessed against the vehicle.
      3.   No order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be issued until
all fines and costs due the town because of traffic law or other law violations
involving the vehicle have been paid. (1994 Code § 15-1712)
 
Notes
1 See subsection
  1-8-10A of this code.
7-11-5: PERMITTING VIOLATIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to authorize or knowingly permit a motor
vehicle owned by or under his control to be driven upon any street in the town
by any person who is not authorized or licensed to drive a motor vehicle under
the laws of the state or under the laws of the state of the driver's residence,
or to be driven or to stand or to be parked in violation of any provision of
this title. (1994 Code §§ 15-104, 15-523)
   B.   It is unlawful for a parent of a minor child or the guardian of a ward
who is a minor to authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to
violate any provision of this title. (1994 Code §§ 15-105, 15-1801; amd. 2004
Code)
7-11-6: VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED; PENALTY:
   No person shall do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required in
this title. Any person who violates any provision of this title, or performs
any unlawful act as defined in this title, or fails to perform any act required
in this title is guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1994 Code § 15-1801)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
***** CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS *****
SECTION:
8-1-1: Obstructing Public Ways
8-1-2: Display Or Sale Of Goods And Merchandise
8-1-3: Projections Into, Overhanging Public Ways
8-1-4: Mud And Water Drainage
8-1-5: Hazardous Sidewalks
8-1-6: Playing On Streets
8-1-7: Injury To Trees And Shrubs
8-1-8: Violation; Penalty
8-1-1: OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Obstructions Prohibited:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct in any manner any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public way by leaving or permitting to remain thereon
or therein any vehicle, object, material, structure, fence or other obstruction
of any kind. (1994 Code § 14-101)
      2.   a.   It is unlawful to:
            (1)   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk
or any other public place or building by hindering or impeding or tending to
hinder or impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or
pedestrians; or
            (2)   Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public
sidewalk or any other public place or building any act or thing which is an
obstruction or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or
with any business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon or facing or fronting
on any such public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public
place or building, all of which prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress,
egress, and regress therein, thereon and thereto.
         b.   When any person causes or commits any of the conditions
enumerated in subsection A2a of this section, a police officer or any law
enforcement officer shall order that person to stop causing or committing such
conditions and to move on or disburse, or to remove any obstructions. Any
person who fails or refuses to obey such orders shall be guilty of a violation
of this subsection A2. (1994 Code § 14-102)
      3.   It is unlawful for any person to otherwise place any object, vehicle
or structure on or so near to any street right of way such that same
constitutes a traffic or safety hazard for either pedestrians or vehicular
traffic traveling on or onto the street.
      4.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to erect, construct,
locate, maintain or allow to remain on his property any sign, fence or
structure within an area known as the "sight triangle", which is defined as
that area formed as required by the board of trustees, or if not so required,
then by measuring from the point of intersection of two (2) lot lines a
distance of twenty five feet (25') along each lot line and connecting the
points so established to create a triangle with sides abutting street right of
way. Any sign, fence or structure placed or located in the area is hereby
determined to be a public nuisance, and the town is authorized to cause the
structure, fence or sign to be removed. (1994 Code § 14-109)
   B.   Elimination Of Obstructions:
      1.   Removal: The owner of every lot or parcel of land in the town upon
which any trees, shrubs or plants are growing, or upon which any obstruction
has been placed, shall remove such trees, shrubs, plants or obstruction, or
parts thereof, if they are so situated as to constitute a traffic hazard by
obstructing the view of any driver of any vehicle on the streets of the town to
the extent that the driver is unable to observe the approach of other vehicles
on streets and alleys and at intersections.
      2.   Trimming Trees And Shrubs:
         a.   The owner of any premises abutting on any street shall trim all
trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the sidewalks and the
roadway, of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any part of
the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or alley in such manner
that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient
passage, sight and travel along the streets, sidewalks and alleys. If premises
are occupied by some person other than the owner, such occupant shall trim the
trees and shrubbery in the same manner as hereinbefore required of the owner.
Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest branches or
foliage shall not be lower than ten feet (10') above the roadway of a street or
alley nor lower than eight feet (8') above the sidewalk.
         b.   Any owner or occupant who fails, refuses or neglects to trim
trees and shrubbery as provided in this subsection B2, after receiving five (5)
days' notice from the town clerk-treasurer or his designee to do so, is guilty
of an offense against the town. In addition to any fine or punishment as an
offense, the town may act to abate the nuisance 1 . Every day that the owner or
occupant fails, refuses or neglects to trim such trees or shrubbery after the
expiration of the five (5) days' notice shall be a separate offense. (1994 Code
§ 14-103)
 
Notes
1 See title 5, chapter 2 of this code for nuisance abatement provisions.
8-1-2: DISPLAY OR SALE OF GOODS AND MERCHANDISE:
   A.   Prohibited: Except as otherwise provided in this code 1 , it is
unlawful for any person to display any goods, wares or merchandise for sale, or
to sell the same, on any street, alley or sidewalk, or from any vehicle parked
thereon, in the corporate limits of the town. Each separate sale or offer to
sell in violation hereof shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Sales From Vehicles: Any vehicle parked on the streets, alleys or
sidewalks for the purpose of making merchandise available for sale by the
methods prohibited by this section shall be promptly moved by the driver upon
order of the police of the town, and if not promptly moved, the same shall be
towed from such location upon order of the police department, and the driver or
custodian of the vehicle shall also be deemed guilty of an offense.
   C.   Separate Offenses: In each instance where an individual is guilty of an
offense under the provisions of this section, the person for whom such
individual is acting in the capacity of an agent or employee shall be guilty of
a separate offense. (1994 Code § 14-104)
 
Notes
  See title 4, chapter 4, "Peddlers, Solicitors And Itinerant Vendors", and
1 subsection
  7-6-4F4 of this code.
8-1-3: PROJECTIONS INTO, OVERHANGING PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Prohibited Generally; Permit Required When Permitted: It is unlawful
for any person to erect or construct, or cause to be erected or constructed,
any cellar or basement way, stairway, door, awning post, canopy or any other
kind of structure projecting into, upon or over, and adjoining any street or
sidewalk within the town; except, that the building inspector may, in his
discretion, authorize the same to be done, where the public health, safety and
necessity demand, by granting a permit therefor 1 .
   B.   Conditions Of Permit; Nonliability Of Town: Upon the granting of a
permit under this section, conditions as to the erection of the structure
through, upon or over any street or sidewalk may be fixed by the town, and a
contract shall be entered into as to the maintenance of the structure, and an
indemnifying agreement secured, indemnifying and saving the town harmless from
any loss, costs or damage by reason of the structure projecting into, upon or
over, and adjoining any street or sidewalk within the fire limits of the town 2
. (1994 Code § 14-105; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 See section
  2-2-6 of this code for permit fee.
2 See section
  10-1-3 of this code for fire limits.
8-1-4: MUD AND WATER DRAINAGE 1 :
   It is unlawful for any person to wash or drain into any street, alley or
other public place in the town any water from his house or premises or to allow
any filth or water to escape from his premises upon any of the places above
mentioned or upon property contiguous thereto. No auto or other vehicle shall
be washed at any place within the town where the water, dirt, or other
substances removed therefrom will drain into any street or sidewalk of the
town. (1994 Code § 14-107)
 
Notes
1 See also subsection
  5-2-3A9 of this code.
8-1-5: HAZARDOUS SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Hazardous Conditions Generally: It is unlawful for the owner or
occupant of property abutting upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area to permit the
sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the property to become a hazard to
persons using the sidewalk or sidewalk area.
   B.   Obstructions: It is unlawful for any person to allow any obstruction of
any kind to accumulate in the sidewalk in front of his premises. All owners and
occupants of property are required to keep their premises and the sidewalks,
gutters, streets and alleys adjacent thereto free from weeds, trash and all
obstructions and to remove such weeds 1 , trash 2  and obstructions from such
places.
   C.   Refuse Deposits: It is unlawful to deposit, throw or sweep into or upon
a street, alley, parking or sidewalk of the town any trash, weeds, tree
trimmings, dirt or any other refuse of any kind. (1994 Code § 14-110)
 
Notes
  See also subsection
1 8-1-5C of this chapter and sections
  5-3-2 and
  9-5-4 of this code.
  See also subsection
  8-1-5B of this chapter and sections
2 5-2-3A12,
  5-3-2 and
  9-5-4 of this code.
8-1-6: PLAYING ON STREETS:
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in any sport, game, or amusement or
to play in, on or across the main traveled portion of any sidewalk, street,
avenue or alley of the town except as may be authorized by ordinance 1 . (1994
Code § 14-106)
 
Notes
1 See section
  7-5-15 of this code.
8-1-7: INJURY TO TREES AND SHRUBS:
   It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery on any street
or alley in the town. This section shall not prohibit the lawful and proper
care and removal of such trees and shrubbery. (1994 Code § 14-108)
8-1-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall constitute
a separate offense. (1994 Code § 14-111)
***** CHAPTER 2
PARADES AND PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES *****
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definition
8-2-2: Permit Required; Exemptions
8-2-3: Application For Permit
8-2-4: Issuance Of Permit; Conditions
8-2-5: Denial Of Permit; Alternate Permit
8-2-1: DEFINITION:
   As used in this chapter, "parade" means any parade, march, ceremony, show,
demonstration, exhibition, pageant or procession of any kind, or any similar
display, in or upon any street, park or other public place in the town. (1994
Code § 10-405)
8-2-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
   No person shall use any street, alley, public way, park or other property
owned or controlled by the town, except those places specifically designed and
intended for such use, for the purpose of holding, conducting, causing or
participating in any parade, street fair, street dance, carnival, assemblage or
activity of any nature which may cause the disturbance or interference of the
normal and ordinary use of the property by other persons, without first having
obtained a permit for such purpose 1 . The permits may be granted by the town
clerk-treasurer under such conditions as deemed appropriate. Permits shall not
be required under this chapter in the case of construction or repairs to or
within any such street or property, provided all other requirements of this
code are complied with. (1994 Code § 10-405)
 
Notes
1 See section 2-2-6 of this code for permit fee.
8-2-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   Not less than two (2) weeks prior to the closing or use of a street or
property for a parade, an application shall be submitted by the party to the
town. The time requirements may be waived by the town clerk-treasurer at his
discretion if sufficient time exists for the proper review of the application
as herein provided. The application shall be submitted upon a form prescribed
by the town, and the application shall provide such other information as
requested. (1994 Code § 10-405)
8-2-4: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS:
   A.   The town clerk-treasurer shall issue a permit as provided for hereunder
when, from a consideration of the application and from such other information
as may otherwise be obtained, he finds that:
      1.   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
      2.   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great
a number of police officers of the town to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
town; (1994 Code § 10-405)
      3.   The conduct of such parade will not require the diversion of so
great a number of emergency vehicles as to prevent normal emergency service to
portions of the town other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of
march and areas contiguous thereto;
      4.   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly
points of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police
protection of, or emergency service to, areas contiguous to such assembly
areas; (1994 Code § 10-405; amd. 2004 Code)
      5.   The conduct of such parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
      6.   The conduct of the parade is not reasonably likely to cause injury
to persons or property, to provoke disorderly conduct or create a disturbance;
and
      7.   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its
point of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
   B.   The town clerk-treasurer, in such cases as shall be determined in his
discretion, may require, as a condition to the issuance of a permit herein,
such insurance or bond holding the town harmless from any and all liability for
injury or damage of any kind whatsoever occurring during such activity covered
by the permit. (1994 Code § 10-405)
8-2-5: DENIAL OF PERMIT; ALTERNATE PERMIT:
   A.   Without regard to subsection 8-2-4B of this chapter, the town clerk-
treasurer, from his consideration of available, appropriate and necessary
information, shall deny the application for a permit provided for by this
chapter when, from this information, he has reason to believe that any
contemplated advocacy at the proposed event will be directed to inciting or
producing imminent lawless action and will likely incite or produce such
action.
   B.   The town clerk-treasurer, in denying an application for a parade
permit, may authorize the conduct of the parade on a date, at a time or over a
route different from that named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to
accept an alternate permit shall so indicate within five (5) days after notice
of the action of the town clerk-treasurer. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit
under this chapter. (1994 Code § 10-405)
***** CHAPTER 3
PARKS AND RECREATION FACILITIES *****
SECTION:
8-3-1: Rules And Regulations
8-3-2: User Fees
8-3-3: Violation; Penalty
8-3-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   The board of trustees shall promulgate, invoke, create, amend and enforce
such rules, regulations, and other requirements as it deems necessary or
expedient in connection with the use of all recreational and park facilities
owned or operated by the town. (1994 Code § 11-101)
8-3-2: USER FEES:
   The town shall provide by rules, from time to time, the fees charged for any
such park or recreational privileges on any property or facility for
recreational purposes owned or operated by the town 1 . (1994 Code § 11-102)
 
Notes
1 See section
  2-2-6 of this code.
8-3-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   It is unlawful for any person to use any of the park or recreational
facilities without having complied with the rules and regulations promulgated
by the board of trustees in connection therewith. Anyone violating any of the
rules and regulations, or failing to comply with such, shall be guilty of an
offense and, on conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1994 Code § 11-103)
TITLE 9
UTILITIES
***** CHAPTER 1
LEASE OF SYSTEMS *****
SECTION:
9-1-1: Lease Of Utilities To Public Works Authority
9-1-2: Rules Of Authority Adopted By Reference; Violation And Penalty
9-1-1: LEASE OF UTILITIES TO PUBLIC WORKS AUTHORITY:
   The town hereby consents and agrees to the lease of the town's water,
sanitary sewerage and refuse systems and facilities and all future additions
thereto to the Wayne public works authority as authorized by statute, to be
effective at the time and upon the terms and conditions specified in a certain
"lease" prepared under the direction of the town board of trustees and filed in
the office of the town clerk-treasurer on May 7, 1990. The mayor of the town
hereby is authorized and directed, on behalf of the town, to execute and
deliver the lease of the Wayne public works authority. (1994 Code § 17-101;
amd. 2004 Code)
9-1-2: RULES OF AUTHORITY ADOPTED BY REFERENCE; VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
   Rules and regulations adopted by the Wayne public works authority are hereby
adopted and incorporated herein by reference, applicable as if set out in full
herein. A copy of said rules and regulations is on file in the office of the
town clerk-treasurer for public use and inspection. Any violation of the rules
and regulations of the authority shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1994 Code § 17-102; amd. 2004 Code)
***** CHAPTER 2
GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR UTILITIES *****
SECTION:
9-2-1: Utility Systems Established
9-2-2: Application For Service
9-2-3: Deposit Required
9-2-4: Service To Separate Premises
9-2-5: Turning On Utilities
9-2-6: Bills For Service; Delinquencies
9-2-7: Maintenance And Repair
9-2-8: Interruption Of Service
9-2-9: Inspections; Entry Powers
9-2-10: Violation; Penalty
9-2-1: UTILITY SYSTEMS ESTABLISHED:
   The water, sewer, solid waste and electric services and systems are public
utilities of the town. (1994 Code § 17-121; amd. 2004 Code)
9-2-2: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE:
   Any person desiring to secure one or more utility services or connections
from the town shall make an application therefor to the town clerk-treasurer on
an application form provided by the town. The applicant shall give such
reasonable information as the town clerk-treasurer may request. He shall state
in the application that he will abide by all ordinances, rules and regulations
governing the utilities and services of the town. (1994 Code § 17-122)
9-2-3: DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
   An applicant for services shall make a deposit in the sum set by motion or
resolution of the town board 1 . An applicant shall not be granted such service
until he has paid to the town clerk-treasurer the applicable deposit. The
deposit shall serve as a guarantee for the payment of charges for utilities,
services and other amounts owed to the town in connection with such services.
When a customer’s service is discontinued, the deposit or any part of such
amount deposited which remains after all such charges and amounts due the town
have been satisfied shall be returned to the customer. (1994 Code § 17-123)
 
Notes
1 1.   See section
  2-2-7 of this code.
9-2-4: SERVICE TO SEPARATE PREMISES:
   Not more than one premises may be connected to any one water meter or sewer
tap without special arrangements being made with the town. No customer shall
make or permit to be made any subsidiary connection of another’s premises with
his water or sewer service. (1994 Code § 17-124)
9-2-5: TURNING ON UTILITIES:
   It is unlawful for any person to turn the utility on to any premises from
the town system except by permission of the town. Utilities shall not be turned
on until the plumbing or electric wiring, as the case may be, has been
inspected and approved by the building inspector as provided by this code, and
until any and all deposits and charges have been paid. The town clerk-treasurer
shall see that the utility is turned on when all requirements for service have
been complied with. (1994 Code § 17-125; amd. 2004 Code)
9-2-6: BILLS FOR SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Bills Due; Delinquent Payment; Penalties:
      1.   Utility bills shall be payable on the first day of the calendar
month following the service month when the service was rendered. Bills shall
become past due after the twelfth day of the month and a ten percent (10%)
penalty shall be assessed to the past due amount. If the twelfth day of the
month falls on a holiday or weekend, the ten percent (10%) penalty shall be
assessed on the second business day following the weekend or holiday. (Res.
2011-01, 7-6-2011, eff. 7-6-2011)
   B.   Discontinuance Of Service:
      1.   Utilities may be cut off and service disconnected for any of the
following reasons:
         a.   Violation of any ordinance or rule relating to the utility or
service system, or violation of any code provisions or any code adopted by
reference relating to water, sewer, electrical or other installations; or
         b.   Failure to pay a utility bill or other proper charge as provided
in this title. (1994 Code § 17-127)
            (1)   Utility bills not paid by the last day of the month shall be
disconnected on the last business day of the month. Disconnections shall begin
on the last business day of the month as soon as the utility clerk can process
the disconnection list. ff the last business day falls on a weekend or holiday
disconnections shall occur on the next business day following the weekend or
holiday. No service disconnections shall occur on Fridays; if the last business
day falls on a Friday, disconnections will occur the following business day.
            (2)   A service fee 1  shall be assessed il service is disconnected
and shall be payable along with the past due balance before service shall be
reconnected.
      2.   A particular service may be cut off for any act or omission in
regard to the abuse of another system or service which jeopardizes the public
health or safety, creates a public nuisance or interferes with the rights of
others.
      3.   The town reserves the right to cut off or reduce any utility or
service to any customer when necessary to conserve water, to protect life or
property, or to repair or improve the system.
      4.   The town reserves the right to discontinue or limit any utility or
service provided to customers located outside the city limits for any reason,
given the Board determines the same is in the best interests of the Town,
subject to any written contract and/or agreement.
   C.   Reestablishment Of Service:
      1.   When a customer’s utility service has been cut off because of
delinquency or act or omission of the customer, as provided by ordinance or
rule, it may be turned on again when all charges have been paid or other change
in the conditions justify it 2 .
      2.   When a utility has been turned off by town personnel, it shall not
again be turned on except by permission of the town. (1994 Code § 17-127)
      3.   A person owing delinquent water or electric or sewer bills or other
charges related to the utility system shall not be extended additional services
until such bills and charges have been paid.
(1994 Code § 17-128) (Res. 2011-01, 7-6-2011, eff. 7-6-2011; Ord. 2021-TITLE9,
12-6-2021, eff. 1-5-2022; Ord. 2026-01, 3-2-2026)
 
Notes
1 1 See section
  2-2-7 of this code.
2 2 See section
  2-2-7 of this code.
9-2-7: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR:
   All customers using town utilities shall keep their service pipes and other
apparatus in good repair and in proper operation and shall not unnecessarily
waste water nor contribute to unsanitary conditions. (1994 Code § 17-129)
9-2-8: INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE:
   The town shall not be responsible for any damages due to stoppage or
interruption of any utility or service. (1994 Code § 17-130)
9-2-9: INSPECTIONS; ENTRY POWERS:
   The public works superintendent, building inspector or other town personnel
may enter any private premises served by the town utilities or systems at any
reasonable time, and inspect the pipes, fixtures or wiring on the premises.
(1994 Code § 17-131; amd. 2004 Code)
9-2-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   Any person who violates any provision of this title or of any ordinance,
code, or standard adopted by this title, or maintains or permits to continue
any public nuisance as defined by this title, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Every day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense. (1994 Code § 17-501)
***** CHAPTER 3
WATER USE AND SERVICE *****
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definitions
9-3-2: Connection To System; Authority Of Town
9-3-3: Meters
9-3-4: Responsibility Of Consumer For Service Line
9-3-5: Water Rates
9-3-6: Interruption Of Service
9-3-7: Emergency Water Shortages
9-3-8: Tampering With Or Injury To System
9-3-9: Entry Powers
9-3-10: Nonliability Of Town
9-3-11: Changes In Fees
9-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
   As used in this chapter, the terms "water system", "waterworks", and "water
distribution system" shall mean the waterworks utility system of the town.
(1994 Code § 17-201)
9-3-2: CONNECTION TO SYSTEM; AUTHORITY OF TOWN:
   The town shall make, inspect and maintain all connections to its water lines
upon the payment to the town by the user or beneficiary thereof of the charge
prescribed by section
2-2-7 of this code. It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a duly
authorized agent or employee of the town, to make a connection to any water
line belonging to or controlled by the town. (1994 Code § 17-203; amd. 2004
Code)
9-3-3: METERS:
   A.   Metered Water Required: Water from the waterworks system shall be
furnished to customers only through meters.
   B.   Installation Of Meters: All meters shall be set under the directions of
the public works superintendent. (1994 Code § 17-202; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Register Kept: The public works superintendent shall maintain a
register of all meter locations, which shall show the position of each and
every meter on the property where it is located, the meter size, model and the
date of its installation. The register will further show by whom the meter was
installed, and for whom and whether or not the meter was first tested and in
good serviceable condition before installation for use. (1994 Code § 17-204;
amd. 2004 Code)
9-3-4: RESPONSIBILITY OF CONSUMER FOR SERVICE LINE:
   Each consumer of water furnished by the town shall lay his own pipeline from
the premises to the property line for the purpose of conveying water to such
point on his premises as he may desire and shall thereafter be required to keep
the same in good repair and sanitary condition. (1994 Code § 17-205)
9-3-5: WATER RATES:
   The rates to be charged to users of water furnished by the Wayne public
works authority for the town shall be as provided in section
2-2-7 of this code. (Ord. 127, 11-4-1996; amd. 2004 Code)
9-3-6: INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE:
   The town reserves the right to turn off the water in its mains at any time
for the purpose of making repairs or in the event of a breakdown in equipment
or machinery. (1994 Code § 17-207)
9-3-7: EMERGENCY WATER SHORTAGES:
   A.   Authority Of Mayor: Whenever an emergency exists by reason of a
shortage of water due to inadequate supply, limited treatment or distribution
capacity or failure of equipment or material, the mayor is hereby authorized to
restrict or prohibit the use of water from the town's water system. (1994 Code
§ 17-221)
   B.   Determination Of Emergency: An emergency exists whenever the mayor
reasonably determines that the town's water system is unable to or will, within
sixty (60) days, become unable to supply the full commercial and domestic needs
of the users thereof, including adequate fire protection. (1994 Code § 17-222)
   C.   Proclamation Of Emergency:
      1.   Issuance Of Proclamation:
         a.   Upon the determination that such an emergency exists, the mayor
shall issue a proclamation declaring the emergency and setting out with
particularity an order restricting use of water from the town system. Such
order may:
            (1)   Restrict water usage during certain periods of the day or
week or according to any orderly and nondiscriminatory scheme; and
            (2)   Prohibit usages not essential to public health and safety.
         b.   The order may be revised from time to time as the mayor deems
necessary. (1994 Code § 17-223)
      2.   Notice Of Proclamation:
         a.   The proclamation required by subsection C1 of this section shall
be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the town, or if there is
no such newspaper in which the proclamation may be published, within twenty
four (24) hours after the emergency arises, publication shall be by posting a
copy of the proclamation in ten (10) prominent places in the town. The
emergency proclamation shall be in full force and effect upon publication.
Substantial compliance with this subsection C2 is sufficient to effect the
proclamation.
         b.   Whenever a sudden or unexpected event so reduces the availability
of water or water pressure as to create an immediate threat to public health or
safety, the notice of the proclamation may be given by any reasonable means,
including electronic means. The emergency shall be in full force and effect
upon such notice. If any such means is other than that required in subsection
C2a of this section, the proclamation shall be republished in accordance with
said subsection C2a within twenty four (24) hours of the first notice. (1994
Code § 17-224)
      3.   Effect Of Proclamation: A duly proclaimed emergency shall continue
and the terms of the proclamation shall be in full force for thirty (30) days
or until such time as the mayor or the town board of trustees shall cause to be
published a proclamation that the emergency has ended, whichever is shorter,
unless the town board of trustees, by resolution approved by a majority of all
its members, extends the proclamation. (1994 Code § 17-225)
      4.   Appeals: Any person feeling aggrieved by a proclamation of the mayor
shall have the right to present the matter to the next regular or special
meeting of the town board of trustees or to any emergency session called to
discuss the water emergency. The town board of trustees may exempt such
aggrieved person, wholly or in part, from compliance with the proclamation
order upon a showing that compliance creates an immediate threat to the
person's health or safety. The ruling of the town board of trustees by a
majority vote of all its members shall be final and binding as to the
continuance of any terms of the proclamation. Until and unless the action of
the mayor is modified or revoked by action of the town board of trustees, all
water users shall be bound by the proclamation. (1994 Code § 17-226)
   D.   Violation; Penalty: Any person who in any manner directly or indirectly
violates or permits others under his supervision, custody or control to violate
any term of a duly published proclamation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Each separate day of water use in violation of such proclamation shall
constitute a separate offense. Violations of this section shall be punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1994 Code § 17-227)
9-3-8: TAMPERING WITH OR INJURY TO SYSTEM 1 :
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or deface or in any way tamper
with any hydrant, stopcock, corporation cock, meter, valve, pipeline, or any
part of the waterworks system, or to turn the water off or on from any main at
any time or place, unless he is duly authorized so to do by the town board.
(1994 Code § 17-208)
 
Notes
1 See also section
  6-5A-5 of this code.
9-3-9: ENTRY POWERS:
   Consumers taking water from the town shall, at all reasonable hours, grant
any person authorized by the town board free access to all parts of the
premises to which water is delivered for the purpose of inspection and
examination of fixtures or to read the meters. (1994 Code § 17-206)
9-3-10: NONLIABILITY OF TOWN:
   All persons taking water from the mains shall do so at their own risk, and
the town shall not be held responsible for any accident or damage of any kind
or character occasioned by pressure in the water mains, the shutting off of the
water, or for failure to keep water under pressure in the mains for any reason.
(1994 Code § 17-207)
9-3-11: CHANGES IN FEES:
   The water tap and water service charge set forth in section
2-2-7 of this code, may be increased or decreased by motion or resolution of
the town board of trustees. (Ord. 2005-001, 2-7-2005)
***** CHAPTER 4
SEWER USE AND SERVICE *****
SECTION:
9-4-1: Authority Of Town
9-4-2: Use Of The Public System Required
9-4-3: Sanitary Sewer Tap Guidelines
9-4-4: Sewer User Fees
9-4-1: AUTHORITY OF TOWN:
   The Town shall allow connections to the Town’s sewer lines within the Town
limits upon payment to the Town by the user or beneficiary thereof. (Ord. 2021-
TITLE9, 12-6-2021, eff. 1-5-2022)
9-4-2: USE OF THE PUBLIC SYSTEM REQUIRED:
   Each occupied residence and each occupied business or commercial building in
the town shall connect to the town's sanitary sewer system within sixty (60)
days after the effective date hereof; provided, however, that such service
shall be brought within at least one hundred fifty feet (150') of the residence
or business property line. Any person, firm, corporation or entity violating
any provision of this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be liable to a
fine not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00), and each day that any violation of
any provision of this section is allowed to exist shall be and constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 123, 3-14-1996; amd. 2004 Code)
9-4-3: SANITARY SEWER TAP GUIDELINES:
   A.   No unmetered water, nor any surface drainage will be allowed to enter
the sanitary sewer system. The approval plan application and the issuance of a
permit does not legalize nor authorize any work which is not in compliance with
the Code of the Town of Wayne or Wayne Public Works Authority Sanitary
regulations.
   B.   1.   The sewer tap must be made by a licensed plumber and inspected by
WPWA.
      2.   The homeowner is responsible for digging and uncovering the main
line and covering up.
      3.   The padding on the pipe shall be of class I material on all lines.
      4.   The tap shall be no closer than three feet (3') from a manhole.
      5.   Tap must be at a forty-five (45) degree angle on the main.
      6.    If the tap is made over the weekend, the ditch will be left open or
will be dug up at the expense of the homeowner to be inspected.
      7.   Trench excavation must meet Federal Safety Requirements.
      8.   Any sanitary sewer connection into the Wayne Public Works Authority
collection system made outside WPWA limits shall require the approval of the
WPWA Board.
   C.   Discharge Into Public Sewer Or Natural Outlets Prohibited: No septic
tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any public sewer or natural
outlet. (Ord. 2021-TITLE9, 12-6-2021, eff. 1-5-2022)
9-4-4: SEWER USER FEES:
   A.   Tap Fees: The charge for making a sewer tap and connection shall be as
provided in section
2-2-7 of this code.
   B.   Service Fees:
      1.   Fees Established: For each dwelling, business or other establishment
of any kind connected to the town's sewer system, there shall be assessed a
sewer service fee based on the monthly water consumption, being at those rates
set out in section
2-2-7 of this code.
      2.   Payment Of Fees; Delinquencies: The sewer service charge shall be
collected by and paid to the town clerk-treasurer, and collection procedure
shall be the same as for water service 1
. Service may be discontinued for failure to pay said sewer charge, even though
charges for water have been paid and are not in arrears in respect to the
premises for which the sewer service charge is delinquent.
   C.   Changes In Fees: The sewer tap fee and sewer service charge set forth
in subsections A and B of this section may be increased or decreased by motion
or resolution of the town board of trustees. (Ord. 119, 4-3-1995; amd. 2004
Code)
 
Notes
1 1 See section
  9-2-6  of this title.
***** CHAPTER 5
SOLID WASTE AND TRASH DISPOSAL AND COLLECTION *****
SECTION:
9-5-1: Purpose
9-5-2: Definitions
9-5-3: Collection And Disposal A Municipal Function
9-5-4: Accumulation Of Solid Waste Prohibited; Nuisance Declared
9-5-5: Receptacles
9-5-6: Bulk And Yard Waste
9-5-7: Waste From Building Construction
9-5-8: Collection And Disposal Of Solid Waste
9-5-9: Bills For Service; Delinquencies
9-5-10: Burning Waste
9-5-11: Grinding Waste
9-5-12: Disposal Of Animal Carcasses
9-5-1: PURPOSE:
   It is the purpose of this chapter and it is hereby declared to be the policy
of the town, pursuant to the authority of the Oklahoma solid waste management
act (27A Oklahoma Statutes sections 2-10-101–2-10-1001, inclusive), to regulate
the collection and disposal of solid wastes in a manner that will protect the
public health and welfare, prevent air and water pollution, prevent the spread
of disease and the creation of nuisances, conserve the natural resources, and
enhance and preserve the beauty and quality of the town's environment. (1994
Code § 17-402; amd. 2004 Code)
9-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, company, firm partnership, association,
trust or other legal entity, however constituted or organized.
REFUSE: Tree trimmings, junked building materials and roofing materials,
manufacturing waste, rocks, dirt and other waste material not defined in this
section as "solid waste" or "trash".
SOLID WASTE: All putrescible and nonputrescible refuse in solid or semisolid
form, including, but not limited to, garbage, refuse, rubbish, ashes or
incinerator residue, street refuse, dead animals, demolition wastes,
construction wastes, solid or semisolid commercial and industrial wastes and
hazardous wastes, including explosives, pathogenic wastes, chemical wastes,
herbicide and pesticide wastes.
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: The entire process of storage, collection,
transportation, processing and burying of solid wastes at or in a site approved
by the Oklahoma state department of health.
TRASH: Paper, rags, containers of paper, tin cans, yard and house sweepings and
all other household waste; but not tree trimmings, building and manufacturing
waste, sewage and rocks, raw dirt, rainwater and other liquid refuse properly
disposable through the sanitary sewers of the town.
(1994 Code § 17-403)
9-5-3: COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL A MUNICIPAL FUNCTION 1 :
   The collection and disposal of garbage, trash and refuse is hereby declared
to be a municipal function of the town as a protection of the public health;
the police powers of the town shall be invoked when necessary for the
enforcement of this chapter. In addition, the town may collect and dispose of
refuse as it deems necessary; provided, that such disposal shall be by an
approved method of incineration (not open burning) or by landfill and daily
cover. (1994 Code § 17-401)
 
Notes
1    See section
  2-2-7 of this code for rates and charges.
9-5-4: ACCUMULATION OF SOLID WASTE PROHIBITED; NUISANCE DECLARED 2 :
   It is unlawful for any person in charge of any lot or piece of ground to
allow solid waste to accumulate thereon so as to cause an offensive odor to be
emitted therefrom or to become injurious or dangerous to the health of the
neighborhood or any inhabitant thereof. Any such condition is hereby declared a
violation of this chapter and punishable as such and, in addition, is declared
to be a nuisance and may be abated as such. (1994 Code § 17-404)
 
Notes
2    See also subsections
  5-2-3A12 and A18b of this code.
9-5-5: RECEPTACLES:
   A.   Use Required: It is unlawful for any person to deposit for collection
or other purpose any solid waste on any street, alley, or public parking, or on
any private property, unless the same is deposited in cans or containers as
herein provided.
   B.   Specifications: It is the duty of all persons in charge of any premises
or piece of ground in the town to place all solid waste in watertight metallic
or plastic cans or containers of sufficient size to hold not less than five (5)
nor more than thirty (30) gallons, and have close fitting covers and handles on
the sides.
   C.   Placement For Pick Up; Bulk Receptacles:
      1.   If the town or its contract solid waste disposal agent furnishes or
otherwise provides bulk metal receptacles or containers on the public rights of
way for use by persons residing or doing business on a block for which the
receptacles or containers are furnished or provided, persons in charge of
premises, lots or pieces of ground within the town shall transfer the solid
waste accumulated on their own premises and contained in receptacles or
containers, as herein prescribed, to the block containers furnished or provided
by the town or its solid waste disposal contract agent.
      2.   If the town or its contract disposal agent does not furnish
receptacles on the public right of way for the collection of solid wastes on a
block basis, then the cans or containers herein required shall be placed by the
person in charge of the premises or piece of ground on the alley or at some
convenient place on the lot, premises or piece of ground so as to provide
access thereto by a collector.
   D.   Maintenance Of Receptacles: Containers used for holding combustible or
noncombustible wastes shall be maintained in good condition. Any waste
container that does not conform to the provisions of this chapter or that may
have ragged or sharp edges or any other defect liable to hamper or injure the
person collecting the contents thereof must be promptly replaced by a proper
receptacle upon receipt of notice to that effect from the collector. If not so
replaced within ten (10) days after receipt of such notice, the nonconforming
or defective container may be collected and disposed of by the collector. (1994
Code § 17-404)
9-5-6: BULK AND YARD WASTE:
   All bulk waste accumulated in residential, commercial, or manufacturing
buildings, such as cardboard containers, wooden crates, hedge trimmings, and
similar refuse, shall be flattened and tied in bundles or packed in suitable
containers, not more than twenty (20) gallons in size, that may be readily
handled by one collector. In no case shall such bundle be larger than two feet
by three feet by four feet (2' x 3' x 4'). Refuse shall be tied into bundles
which can be readily handled by one collector. Tree limbs exceeding eight
inches (8") in diameter will not be collected by the town and should not be
included in any bundle for refuse collection. (1994 Code § 17-404)
9-5-7: WASTE FROM BUILDING CONSTRUCTION:
   Any person constructing any structure within the town shall, prior to
construction on any premises in the town, furnish and place on the premises a
container of suitable size and design to contain all solid waste which might,
by the winds or elements, be distributed and blown from the premises. The
container shall be used by the person constructing at all times to keep the
premises from becoming unsightly with solid waste. Any person who fails to keep
the premises on which any structure is being built or installed free from solid
waste and which allows the waste to blow or be carried from the premises to
adjoining or other property or into the town streets shall be deemed guilty of
causing a nuisance and shall be subject to the penalties in this code 1  or
ordinances prescribed therefor. (1994 Code § 17-404)
 
Notes
1    See title 5, chapter 2 of this code for nuisance regulations.
9-5-8: COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE:
   A.   Exclusive Authority Of Contractor: It shall be unlawful for any person,
except under contract as is herein provided, to remove or cause to be removed
any solid waste materials from any garbage can or other receptacle used for the
deposit of same, or to transport or haul, carry or otherwise move over any of
the streets, alleys or other public ways any solid waste materials. (1994 Code
§ 17-406)
   B.   Frequency Of Collection: Collections of garbage and trash, and the
removal thereof to some suitable place outside the town limits, shall be made
at least once each week. (1994 Code § 17-409)
9-5-9: BILLS FOR SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Charges Included With Water And Sewer Bill: To facilitate the
collection of the rates and charges herein levied and assessed, the clerk-
treasurer or other designated agent of the town is hereby further directed to
include the charges on the same bill by which the town bills for and collects
for its sewer, water or other services, to the end that the rates and charges
herein levied shall be paid and collected by the town at the same time 1 . The
rates and charges above levied shall be shown on the bill as a separate and
distinct item of charge.
   B.   Delinquent Payments 2 : In the event any owner, occupant or person in
charge of any user unit against whom a charge has been herein levied and
assessed fails or otherwise refuses to pay the charge, the provisions of
section
9-2-6 of this title shall be applicable. (1994 Code § 17-410; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1    See section
  9-2-6 of this title.
2    See also section
  9-2-6 of this title.
9-5-10: BURNING WASTE:
   A.   Prohibitions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to start or maintain any fire or
cause any fire to be started or maintained for the purpose of burning or
incinerating any solid waste, including but not limited to, grass, stubble,
agricultural/garden waste, vegetation, tree limbs or clippings that may be on
any property within the corporate limits of Wayne without first paying for and
receiving from the Town of Wayne, or a designee thereof, including the Fire
Chief, a permit authorizing the same. The cost of such permit shall be ten
dollars ($10.00).
         a.   Burn permits shall be issued for a specific date and time and
pre-approved by the Fire Chief or fire department designee. The permit shall
only be approved immediately prior to the time of the actual bum.
         b.   Burn permits may be issued only under the following weather
conditions, and any other added conditions that may from time to time be deemed
necessary by the Fire Chief or fire department designee for the protection of
the public and property:
         c.   No plastic, tar, rubber, chemical, hazardous material, wiring,
shingles, treated or painted building materials, or synthetic fibrous material
shall be burned. Only biodegradable materials such as wood, leaves, grass
(clippings), hay, etc., may be burned. lt is the responsibility of the
landowner and/or resident to inform the Fire Chief or fire department designee
of all materials to be burned.
         d.   All bums within the limits of Wayne shall be attended at all
times.
         e.   Bum permits may be issued beginning at seven thirty (7:30) a.m.
Initial ignition of any controlled bum, shall not take place after five o’clock
(5:00) p.m. All burns shall be extinguished by sunset.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to construct or install, within any building in
the Town of Wayne, any incinerator designed to burn solid wastes.
      3.   It shall be unlawful to ignite or cause to be ignited any fire
within the town limits of the Town of Wayne, except as specifically set forth
below.
         a.   Fires within a properly constructed fireplace or heating stove
used for the purpose of providing heat within the confines of a structure;
         b.   Any fire built in an outside receptacle, properly contained, for
the purpose of outdoor cooking, camping or bon fire;
         c.   The burning of paper or cardboard wa te products within a
properly constructed, enclosed incinerator operating at any commercial or
retail establishment within the town limits.
      4.   Bum permits shall not be issued during a Town, county or state bum
ban. A landowner and/or resident of Wayne shall comply with Town, county or
state burn bans if said landowner and/or resident's property is located within
the area affected by the ban.
      5.   A landowner and/or resident who receives a bum permit and
negligently, carelessly, or intentionally allows a fire to spread beyond the
bounds of its intended confinement shall be subject to a maximum fine of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) per occurrence plus costs. Additional costs, to be
determined by the Wayne Board of Trustees may be imposed if fire department
equipment and personnel are required to respond for extinguishment purposes.
(1994 Code § 17-405; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 2025-05, 12-13-2025)
9-5-11: GRINDING WASTE:
   It shall be unlawful to construct or to install within any retail store or
other commercial or industrial establishment within the town any mechanical or
power driven device or machine for the grinding of solid waste materials
designed to be introduced into the sewer system of the town, unless the same
has been approved by the public works superintendent or other designated
appointee of the town, to ensure that such waste will not block or otherwise
interfere with the sewer lines. (1994 Code § 17-407; amd. 2004 Code)
9-5-12: DISPOSAL OF ANIMAL CARCASSES:
   Carcasses of animals must be transported to the town sanitary landfill by or
at the expense of the owner of the animal. It shall be unlawful for any person
to bury or cause to be buried the carcass of any animal at any place within the
town. (1994 Code § 17-408)
TITLE 10
BUILDING REGULATIONS
***** CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS *****
SECTION:
10-1-1: Building Code
10-1-2: Building Permits
10-1-3: Fire Limits
10-1-4: Address Numbering
10-1-1: BUILDING CODE:
   A.   The International Building Code, International Existing Building Code,
International Residential Code, and International Property Maintenance Code, as
published and adopted by the International Code Council, shall hereby be
adopted by reference, with the latest version published by the International
Code Council being maintained by the Town Clerk and adopted for purposes of
regulation, governance, and enforcement of the Building Code of the Town of
Wayne, in the State of Oklahoma.
   B.   That three (3) true and correct copies of all related Building Codes
shall at all times be kept and maintained on file in the office of the Town
Clerk of the Town of Wayne, Oklahoma, marked and designated by title. (1994
Code §§ 5-101 - 5-103; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 2025-04, 2-13-2024)
10-1-2: BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
construct, alter, or move a building or structure, or to begin to do the same,
without securing from the town clerk-treasurer a permit therefor.
   B.   Fee: For a permit for the construction or alteration of a building or
structure, the fee shall be as set by the board of trustees by motion or
resolution 1 . (1994 Code § 5-105)
 
Notes
1    See section
  2-2-8 of this code.
10-1-3: FIRE LIMITS:
   The boundaries of the fire limits of the town shall be as established by
resolution of the town board.
(1994 Code § 5-104; amd. 2004 Code)
10-1-4: ADDRESS NUMBERING:
   A.   Required: All houses and buildings fronting on public streets in the
town of Wayne shall be numbered. The owners and the occupants of all buildings
within town limits shall install and maintain the numbers of the street address
of that building upon the outside of the primary structure. These numbers shall
be displayed in a manner and have sufficient size as to be easily seen from the
public roadway by police, fire and other emergency personnel.
   B.   Specifications: The identifying numbers shall be not less than three
inches (3") in height and must be in color contrast to the house or building,
so that it can easily be seen day and night. Address numbers shall be located
either near a building's main entrance, above the garage door, or on a surface
that is visible from the street of the address. Houses or buildings that are
set back more than one hundred feet (100') from a street curb shall be required
to display numbers within fifty feet (50') of the street curb, on a surface
that is easily visible from the street of address.
   C.   Responsibility: The responsibility for the displaying of the assigned
number for each existing house and building in town limits, as of the effective
date hereof, shall rest with the property owner, trustee, lessee, agent or
occupant of each house or building.
   D.   Violation: Any person who shall fail to comply with any provision of
this section, or who shall number or attempt to number any house or building
other than in conformity with this section, or who shall fail to change his/her
number, if wrong within sixty (60) days of the effective date and thereafter
within thirty (30) days after being notified in writing to do so by the clerk,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subjected to a fine of not less
than twenty dollars ($20.00), nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute
a separate offense.
   E.   Nuisances: In addition to any other penalties and sanctions which may
be imposed, any structure which does not have a well maintained numbering
system as required by this section is hereby declared a public nuisance, and
the town may abate such a nuisance by installing the numbers after following
the procedures set forth in this code; and the town may assess the land or
applicable utility bills with the costs of abatement as set forth in this code.
(Ord. 2015-1, 8-3-2015)
***** CHAPTER 2
PLUMBING CODE AND REGULATIONS *****
SECTION:
10-2-1: Plumbing Code
10-2-2: Contractor Registration Requirements
10-2-3: Plumbing Permits
10-2-4: Single-Family Residential Construction
10-2-5: Inspections
10-2-6: Violation; Penalty
10-2-1: PLUMBING CODE:
   A.   The International Plumbing Code, as published and adopted by the
International Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference, with the latest
version published by the International Code Council being maintained by the
Town Clerk and adopted for purposes of regulation, governance, and enforcement
of the Building Code of the Town of Wayne, in the State of Oklahoma.
   B.   That three (3) true and correct copies of all Codes adopted hereby
shall at all times be kept and maintained on file in the office of the Town
Clerk of the Town of Wayne, Oklahoma, marked and designated by title. (1994
Code §§ 5-201 - 5-202; amd. Ord. 2025-04, 2-13-2025)
10-2-2: CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Registration Required: No person shall practice or engage in the
business, trade or occupation of a plumbing contractor, a journeyman plumber,
or a plumber's apprentice, unless he is registered as such with the building
inspector of the town as required in the town plumbing code.
   B.   Fees:
      1.   Fees Established: The registration fees for plumbing contractors,
journeyman plumbers and apprentice plumbers, to be paid to the town clerk-
treasurer, are as set by the town board of trustees 1 . (1994 Code § 5-203;
amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   Payment And Disposition Of Fees: The fee shall accompany the
application, and all fees provided for in this chapter shall be paid to the
town clerk-treasurer for deposit to the account of the town.
   C.   Expiration Of Registration: All registration certificates shall expire
on December 31 of each year.
   D.   Bond And Insurance Requirements: Bond and insurance requirements of
plumbing contractors shall be satisfactory to the town and shall meet the
requirements established by state law prior to the issuance of a license or
registration. (1994 Code § 5-205; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1    See section
  2-2-8 of this code.
10-2-3: PLUMBING PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required; Issuance To Registered Contractor: No plumbing work,
unless excepted in this code, shall be undertaken prior to the issuance of a
permit therefor by the building inspector. A permit shall be issued to a
registered plumbing contractor only, except as provided in this code. (1994
Code § 5-206; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for a permit for plumbing work
shall be made on suitable forms provided by the building inspector. The
application shall be accompanied by fees in accordance with the schedule set by
the town. (1994 Code § 5-208; amd. 2004 Code)
10-2-4: SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION:
   Any permit required by this chapter may be issued to any person to do any
work required by this chapter in a single-family dwelling used exclusively for
living purposes, including the usual accessory buildings and quarters in
connection with such buildings, provided the person is the bona fide owner of
such dwelling, and that the same will be occupied by the owner, and that the
owner shall personally purchase all material and perform all labor in
connection therewith. The building inspector must inspect the work to see that
it complies with this chapter, and the owner shall pay the regular scheduled
fees for permits. (1994 Code § 5-207; amd. 2004 Code)
10-2-5: INSPECTIONS:
   Upon the completion of the installation of any plumbing device, or
equipment, it shall be the duty of the person, firm or corporation installing
same to notify the building inspector, and the inspector shall inspect the
installation within twenty four (24) hours after notice is given. If, upon
inspection, it is found that any part of the installation does not comply with
the provisions of this chapter, the inspector shall give notice in writing of
the violation to the person, firm or corporation to whom the permit is issued.
(1994 Code § 5-206; amd. 2004 Code)
10-2-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Any person who violates or refuses to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1994 Code § 5-209)
***** CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL CODE AND REGULATIONS *****
SECTION:
10-3-1: Electrical Code Adopted
10-3-2: Contractor Registration Requirements
10-3-3: Electrical Permits
10-3-4: Single-Family Residential Construction
10-3-5: Violation; Penalty
10-3-1: ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED:
   The national electrical code, the latest edition thereof, as approved by the
American Standards Association, for the installation of electrical wiring,
devices and equipment is hereby adopted as the minimum standard for the
installation of all electrical wiring, devices and equipment in the town,
except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter. The national
electrical code is hereby made a part of this code as fully and to the same
extent as if copied here in full; provided, that the present or current issue
of the national electrical code and any subsequent amendments thereto shall be
considered as the "national electrical code" as that term is used herein. In
the event of any conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the
national electrical code, then, in such event, the provisions of this chapter
shall govern. One copy of said code is on file in the office of the town clerk-
treasurer. (1994 Code § 5-301; amd. 2004 Code)
10-3-2: CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Registration Required: No person shall practice or engage in the
business, trade or occupation of an electrical contractor, journeyman
electrician or electrician's apprentice, unless he holds a current license
obtained from the state, and is registered as such with the building inspector
of the town as required in the state electrical license act 1 .
   B.   Fees: The registration fees for electrical contractors, journeyman
electricians and apprentice electricians shall be as set by the town board of
trustees 2 , and the fee shall accompany the application.
   C.   Expiration Of Registration; Renewal: All registration certificates
shall expire on December 31 of each year. Registrations are subject to renewal
on or before December 31 by paying the renewal registration fees as required by
this chapter 3 .
   D.   Bond And Insurance Requirements: Bond and insurance requirements of
electrical contractors shall be satisfactory to the town and shall meet the
requirements established by state law prior to the issuance of a license or
registration. (1994 Code § 5-304; amd. 2004 Code)
   E.   Nontransferability Of Registration: No registration issued in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall be transferable. Any
holder of a license who shall permit or allow same to be used by any other
party to obtain a permit to do electrical work as specified in this chapter
shall be subject to having such license revoked by the town board. (1994 Code §
5-305)
 
Notes
1 59 OS § 1850.1 et seq.
2 See section
  2-2-8 of this code.
3 See section
  2-2-8 of this code.
10-3-3: ELECTRICAL PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required; Issuance To Registered Contractor: Before any
electrical wiring, device or equipment, subject to the provisions of this
chapter, is altered or repaired, a permit therefor must be obtained from the
building inspector. Unless the permit is for work exempted in this chapter, the
permit shall be issued only in the name of a licensed electrical contractor
upon the presentation of an application by the contractor in person. An agent
or employee of the contractor shall not be allowed to act on behalf of the
contractor. (1994 Code § 5-302; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Contents Of Permit: The permit shall state the location of the work to
be done, a description of the work and whether it will consist of a new
installation, or addition or repair or alteration of an old installation, and
the name of the owner or occupant of the building or premises. (1994 Code § 5-
302)
   C.   Permit Fees: Before any permit is granted for the installation,
alteration or repair of any electrical wiring, devices or equipment, the
person, firm or corporation making application for such permit shall pay to the
town a fee in the amount set by the town. All fees provided for in this chapter
shall be paid to the town clerk-treasurer for deposit to the account of the
town. (1994 Code § 5-303)
   D.   Conditions Of Permit: The permit, when issued, shall be for such
installation as described in the application, and no deviation shall be made
from the installation so described without the written approval of the building
inspector. If, upon inspection, it is found that any part of the installation
does not comply with the provisions of this chapter, the inspector shall give
notice in writing of the violation to the person, firm or corporation to whom
the permit was issued. (1994 Code § 5-302; amd. 2004 Code)
10-3-4: SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION:
   Any permit required by this chapter may be issued to any person to do any
work required by this chapter in a single-family dwelling used exclusively for
living purposes, including the usual accessory buildings and quarters in
connection with such buildings, provided the person is the bona fide owner of
such dwelling, and that the same will be occupied by the owner, and that the
owner shall personally purchase all material and perform all labor in
connection therewith. The building inspector must inspect the work to see that
it complies with this chapter, and the owner shall pay the regular schedule of
fees for permits. (1994 Code § 5-306; amd. 2004 Code)
10-3-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by fine. Any person, firm or corporation who violates or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1994 Code § 5-307)
***** CHAPTER 4
FIRE CODES AND FIRE PREVENTION REGULATIONS *****
SECTION:
10-4-1: Fire Codes
10-4-2: Permits For New Materials, Processes Or Occupancies
10-4-3: Appeals
10-4-4: Violation; Penalties
10-4-1: FIRE CODES:
   A.   The International Fire Code, as published and adopted by the
International Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference, with the latest
version published by the International Code Council being maintained by the
Town Clerk and adopted for purposes of regulation, governance, and enforcement
of the Building Code of the Town of Wayne, in the State of Oklahoma.
      1.   That three (3) true and correct copies of this Code shall at all
times be kept and maintained on file in the office of the Town Clerk of the
Town of Wayne, Oklahoma, marked and designated by title.
   B.   The NFPA 101 Life Safety Code, 2024 edition, as published by the
National as published by the National Fire Protection Association, is hereby
adopted by the Town of Wayne for regulating and governing the safety of
buildings and life; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of
fees as may be necessary therefore; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said NFPA 101 Life Safety Code
on file in the office of the Town Clerk of the Town of Wayne are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
chapter. (1994 Code §§ 13-101 and 13-102; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 2025-03, 2-13-
2025; Ord. 2025-04, 2-13-2025)
10-4-2: PERMITS FOR NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES:
   The town board of trustees may act as a committee to determine and specify,
after giving affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials,
processes, or occupancies, which shall require permits, in addition to those
now enumerated in the codes adopted herein 1 . The fire chief shall post such
list in a conspicuous place in his office and distribute copies thereof to
interested persons. (1994 Code § 13-103)
 
Notes
1    See section
  2-2-8 of this code for permit fee.
10-4-3: APPEALS:
   Whenever the chief of the fire department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the codes adopted herein do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of
said codes have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may
appeal from the decision of the chief of the fire department to the town board
of trustees within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appealed.
(1994 Code § 13-104)
10-4-4: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of the codes hereby adopted or
fails to comply therewith, or who violates or fails to comply with any order
made thereunder, or who builds in violation of any detailed statement of
specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate
or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who
fails to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the town board of
trustees or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed
therein, shall severally for every such violation and noncompliance
respectively, be guilty of an offense, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue, and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time. When not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited
conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense. The application
of this penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited
conditions. (1994 Code § 13-105)
***** CHAPTER 5
GAS CODES *****
SECTION:
10-5-1: Gas Piping
10-5-2: International Fuel Gas Code
10-5-1: GAS PIPING:
   A.   Code Adopted: Pamphlet no. 54 published by the National Fire Protection
Association, entitled national fuel gas code, is hereby adopted, incorporated
and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this code, with the insertions,
deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in this section. State licensed
plumbing and mechanical contractors and persons authorized to install gas
piping under state licensing laws are authorized to do so under this code. One
copy of the fuel gas code is on file in the office of the town clerk-treasurer.
(1994 Code § 5-401; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Contractor Registration Requirements:
      1.   Registration Required: No person shall practice or engage in the
business, trade or occupation of a gas fitter, unless he holds a current
Oklahoma plumbing contractor's license or a current Oklahoma mechanical
contractor's license and obtains from the town clerk-treasurer a gas fitter's
registration certificate.
      2.   Fee: The fee for such registration or renewal is the same provided
for the plumbing contractor or mechanical contractor pursuant to the town code
1 . Before a permit shall be issued by the building inspector for new
installation of gas piping, repair or replacement of existing piping, or the
installation of gas fired equipment, fees as set by the town shall be paid to
the town clerk-treasurer. (1994 Code § 5-402; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Single-Family Residential Dwellings: Any permit required by this
section may be issued to any person to do any work required by this section in
a single-family dwelling used exclusively for living purposes, including the
usual accessory building and quarters in connection with such buildings,
provided the person is a bona fide owner of such dwelling, and that the same
will be occupied by the owner, and that the owner shall personally purchase all
material and perform all labor in connection therewith. The building inspector
must inspect the work to see that it complies with this section, and the owner
shall pay the regular schedule of fees for permits. (1994 Code § 5-403; amd.
2004 Code)
   D.   Penalty: Any person who shall do any act prohibited by this section or
fail or refuse to comply therewith or fail or refuse to obey a lawful order of
the building inspector shall be punished by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1994 Code § 5-404; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1    See section
  2-2-8 of this code.
10-5-2: INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE:
   A.   The International Fuel Gas Code, as published and adopted by the
International Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference, with the latest
version published by the International Code Council being maintained by the
Town Clerk and adopted for purposes of regulation, governance, and enforcement
of the Building Code of the Town of Wayne, in the State of Oklahoma.
   B.   That three (3) true and correct copies of all Codes adopted hereby
shall at all times be kept and maintained on file in the office of the Town
Clerk of the Town of Wayne, Oklahoma, marked and designated by title. (1994
Code §§ 5-501 and 5-502; amd. 2004 Code; 2025-04, 2-13-2025)
***** CHAPTER 6
MECHANICAL CODE AND REGULATIONS *****
SECTION:
10-6-1: Mechanical Code
10-6-2: Nontransferability Of Contractor Registration
10-6-3: Single-Family Residential Dwellings
10-6-4: Violation; Penalty
10-6-1: MECHANICAL CODE:
   A.   The International Mechanical Code, as published and adopted by the
International Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference, with the latest
version published by the International Code Council being maintained by the
Town Clerk and adopted for purposes of regulation, governance, and enforcement
of the Building Code of the Town of Wayne, in the State of Oklahoma.
   B.   That three (3) true and correct copies of all Codes adopted hereby
shall at all times be kept and maintained on file in the office of the Town
Clerk of the Town of Wayne, Oklahoma, marked and designated by title. (1994
Code §§ 5-801 and 5-802; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 2025-04, 2-13-2025)
10-6-2: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION:
   No registration issued in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
shall be transferable. Any holder of a registration who shall permit or allow
same to be used by any other party to obtain a permit to do mechanical work as
specified in this chapter shall be subject to having such registration revoked
by the town. (1994 Code § 5-806; amd. 2004 Code)
10-6-3: SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DWELLINGS:
   Any permit required by this chapter may be issued to any person to do any
work required by this chapter in a single-family dwelling used exclusively for
living purposes, including the usual accessory buildings and quarters in
connection with such buildings, provided the person is the bona fide owner of
such dwelling, and that the same will be occupied by the owner, and that the
owner shall personally purchase all material and perform all labor in
connection therewith. The building inspector must inspect the work to see that
it complies with this chapter, and the owner shall pay the regular schedule
fees for permits. (1994 Code § 5-807; amd. 2004 Code)
10-6-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Any person who violates or refuses to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1994 Code § 5-808)
***** CHAPTER 7
HOUSING CODE AND REGULATIONS *****
SECTION:
10-7-1: Reserved
10-7-2: Regulations; Nonconformities
10-7-3: Mobile Homes
10-7-1: RESERVED.
10-7-2: REGULATIONS; NONCONFORMITIES:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following words shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   LOT: A separate and distinct parcel of land, designated on a legally
recorded plat or a legally recorded deed filed in the records of the McClain
County clerk and containing ten (10) acres or less.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING: Any structure, situated on a lot, built, used, or
occupied for the residence, dwelling, or domestic shelter of any person,
including, without limitation, site built houses or structures, manufactured
housing, mobile homes, modular homes, and dwellings of all kinds. "Residential
building" does not mean jails, apartment houses, condominiums, hotels, motels,
nursing homes, or convalescent homes.
   B.   Density Requirement: No lot shall contain more than one residential
building.
   C.   Nonconforming Residential Buildings: Where residential buildings exist
on a lot at the effective date hereof that would not be permitted under the
terms of this section by reason of restrictions on the number of residential
buildings which may be placed on a lot (hereinafter called nonconforming
residential buildings), such nonconforming residential buildings and their use
as such may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the
following conditions:
      1.   Alterations: No such nonconforming residential building shall be
enlarged or altered;
      2.   Moving Building: No such nonconforming residential building shall be
moved any distance for any reason;
      3.   Damage: Should a nonconforming residential building be destroyed by
any means, to the extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement
cost at the time of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed;
      4.   Discontinuance Of Use: Where the use of a nonconforming residential
building for such purpose is discontinued or abandoned for a period of six (6)
months, the nonconforming residential building shall not thereafter be used
except in conformity with this section; and
      5.   Removal Or Destruction Of Nonconforming Building; Lot Becomes
Conforming: Nonconforming status is applied to a residential building and the
lot on which it is situated, and removal or destruction of the residential
building shall eliminate the nonconforming status of the lot.
   D.   Violation; Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate
this section shall be guilty of an offense, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and each day any such violation occurs or continues to
exist shall be a separate offense as provided in subsection
1-4-1B1 of this code and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by fine
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each such separate offense. (Ord. 130, 6-9-1997)
10-7-3: MOBILE HOMES:
   A.   Mobile homes shall not be moved into or relocated within the town.
   B.   It has become apparent that older mobile homes and manufactured homes
tend to result in blighting and rapid deterioration resulting in numerous code
violations and an overall reduction in property values. Accordingly, it is
deemed necessary to regulate such dwelling units in a manner reasonably
calculated to prevent these occurrences of such other deleterious effects upon
surrounding properties. Manufactured homes dated after January 1, 1993 shall be
allowed in town. Nothing before January 1, 1993 shall be allowed into the town.
The reason for this date is because of the insurance industry standards
regarding roof, walls, windows, siding, fire safety, wiring, sheetrock walls
(compared to paneling) and other safety features that provide a safer structure
in the event of a fire or other hazard and improves the overall life of the
house.
   C.   In addition to the age requirement for a manufactured home, minimum
conditions and standards shall be met on each and every pre-owned manufactured
home prior to being issued a zoning compliance permit. Those conditions that
are set forth in the pre-owned manufactured home minimum standards are hereby
adopted as follows:
      1.   "Pre-owned manufactured home" is defined as any manufactured home as
defined in title 47 Oklahoma Statutes that has been previously utilized as a
residential dwelling.
      2.   The following facilities shall be required:
         a.   Sanitary Facilities: Every pre-owned manufactured home shall not
contain less than a kitchen sink, lavatory, tub or shower, and a water closet
all in working condition when properly connected to an approved water and sewer
system. Every plumbing fixture and water and waste pipe shall be in sanitary
working condition free from leaks and obstructions.
         b.   Hot And Cold Water Supply: Every kitchen sink, lavatory and tub
or shower in a pre-owned manufactured home must be connected to a supply of
both hot and cold water.
         c.   Water Heating Facilities: Every pre-owned manufactured home shall
have water-heating facilities in safe, working condition.
         d.   Heating Facilities: Every pre-owned manufactured home shall have
heating facilities in safe working condition.
         e.   Un-vented fuel burning heaters shall be prohibited except for gas
heaters listed for un-vented use and the total input rating for the un-vented
heaters is less than twenty (20) BTU per hour per cubic foot of room content.
         f.   Un-vented fuel burning heaters shall be prohibited in bedrooms
and bathrooms.
         g.   In lieu of inspecting the heating facilities of a pre-owned
manufactured home, the retailer may request a heating inspection by a qualified
third party. Approval by such a person will be accepted as compliance with
those portions of the safety standards established herein which pertain to
heating systems.
         h.   Smoke Detector: Every pre-owned manufactured home shall be
provided approved listed smoke detectors installed in accordance with the
manufacturer's recommendations and listing.
         i.   Windows: Every habitable room excluding bathrooms, kitchens, and
hallways shall have at least one (1) window that can be opened, facing directly
to the outdoors.
         j.   Ventilation: Every habitable room shall have at least one (1)
window which can be opened or such device that will ventilate the room.
         k.   Electrical: Every pre-owned manufactured home electrical
components shall be in safe, working condition. Approval by a qualified third
party will be accepted as compliance with those portions of the safety
standards established herein which pertained to electrical systems.
         l.   Distribution Panels: Distribution panels shall be in compliance
with the approved listing, complete with required breakers or fuses, with all
unused openings covered with blank covers approved and listed for that purpose.
Connections shall be checked for tightness. Panels shall be accessible.
         m.   Electrical System: The electrical system (switches, receptacles,
fixtures, and the like) shall be properly installed, wired and shall be in
working condition. The pre-owned manufactured home shall be subjected to an
electrical continuity test(s) to assure that all metallic parts are properly
bonded.
         n.   Exterior Walls: The exterior of the home shall be free of loose
or rotting boards or timbers and any other conditions that might admit rain or
moisture to the interior portions of the walls or to the occupied spaces of the
pre-owned manufactured home.
         o.   Exterior Siding: The exterior siding of the pre-owned
manufactured home shall be free of rot and rust and must be uniform in
appearance.
         p.   Roofs: Roofs shall be structurally sound and have no obvious
defects, which might admit rain or cause moisture to collect on the interior
portion of the home.
         q.   Interior Floors, Walls, And Ceiling: Every floor, interior wall
and ceiling shall be in sound condition to prevent the admittance of rain or
moisture.
   D.   Installation And Inspection:
      1.   Requirements regarding installation of all manufactured home shall
be according to standards set by the Oklahoma Administrative Code title 765
Used Motor Vehicle and Parts Commission, Chapter 37 Manufactured Home
Installers, which may be amended from time to time.
      2.   The code enforcement officer or his authorized representative shall
inspect manufactured homes for compliance with these standards. Additional
inspection requirements are provided in division F, below.
      3.   A zoning compliance permit shall be required for all manufactured
homes brought into the town.
   E.   Manufactured Housing, Mobile Home Park And Travel Trailer Park, And
Subdivision Development: All manufactured housing, mobile home parks, travel
trailer parks, and subdivisions shall be developed and/or constructed in
accordance with all requirements of this code, and as follows:
      1.   Any manufactured home or mobile home that was manufactured on or
before January 1, 1993 shall not be allowed in the town.
      2.   Any manufactured home that does not meet the minimum standards set
forth in this section shall not be allowed in the town.
      3.   Any manufactured home that does not meet the specifications set
forth for the installation of all manufactured homes according to the standards
set by the Oklahoma Administrative Code title 765 Used Motor Vehicle and Parts
Commission, Chapter 37 Manufactured Home Installers, (which may be amended from
time to time), shall not be allowed in the town.
         a.   No person shall join two (2) manufactured homes, mobile homes,
recreational vehicles, or a combination thereof with a structure, or any like
units or structures to make a single dwelling unit within the town, unless said
structure is built with a common roof and enclosed by common exterior walls in
a way that would make the abode to appear to be one (1) dwelling and a zoning
compliance permit has been obtained prior to the start of construction.
         b.   All manufactured home sites must be adequately prepared with
support systems including piers, blocks, base pads, vapor guard, grading
requirements, drainage requirements, compaction of soil and all other
requirements as outlined in the Oklahoma Administrative Code title 765 Used
Motor Vehicle and Parts Commission, chapter 37 Manufactured Home Installers,
(which may be amended from time to time), and all other federal and state
requirements. This will promote the life of the manufactured home.
         c.   All manufactured homes shall meet the manufacturers'
specifications regarding safeguarding from high winds.
         d.   Wrecked, damaged or dilapidated mobile homes or manufactured
homes or recreational vehicles shall not be kept or stored within the town,
whether intended for use as a dwelling or otherwise. All such dilapidated
structures are subject to the provisions of this code.
         e.   Mobile homes and manufactured homes, occupied or unoccupied, are
considered dwelling units; any other use must be permitted only upon proper
application as a use permitted on review, as set forth in this code within
sixty (60) days. If application is not made, then the home must be removed
within a reasonable amount of time. If the owner fails to do so, then the town
may elect to have the unit towed at the owner's expense.
         f.   No person shall permanently reside in a travel trailer or
recreational vehicle, except as allowed in RV parks. Appropriate sewage
disposal shall be necessary for all recreational vehicles and travel trailers.
         g.   It is unlawful for any person to obtain, have furnished, or
receive any type of utility service without first complying with all of the
terms and conditions set forth herein.
         h.   Location Of Manufactured Homes: Unless otherwise prohibited by
the covenants and restrictions for a homeowner's association, manufactured
homes that are not located within a manufactured home park or mixed use park
and which meet zoning compliance permit standards shall be allowed for use as a
permanent dwelling unit in areas zoned AR-1, AR-2, RL-1, R-1, and R-2, as set
forth in this code.
         i.   No vehicles or trailers of any type, including, but not limited
to commercial, travel, camping trailers, hauling trailers, recreational
vehicles, manufactured homes, and mobile homes, shall be parked or stored in a
manner which impedes, blocks the view, or hinders the flow of traffic. All
vehicles parked in such a manner may be towed at the owner's expense.
   F.   Licensing And/Or Permit Requirements:
      1.   a.   Town Requirements: Persons desiring to introduce a manufactured
home into the town or to relocate a currently existing manufactured home within
the town must first have the manufactured home space ready, according to the
terms of this section, and obtain a zoning compliance permit.
         b.   The unit must pass an inspection to certify its suitability for
use prior to its arrival to or relocation within the town. The requirements set
forth in this section shall be subject to inspection and approval. Inspectors
shall be those persons who are licensed to install manufactured homes as set
forth in the Oklahoma Administrative Code, title 765 chapter 37.
         c.   A copy of the inspection shall be provided with the zoning
compliance permit application.
         d.   Requirements regarding installation of all manufactured homes
shall be according to standards set by Oklahoma Statutes, title 765 Used Motor
Vehicle and Parts Commission, chapter 37 Manufactured Homes Installers, as may
be amended from time to time.
         e.   All costs associated with inspections and installation shall be
incurred solely by the homeowner.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain,
establish or operate a manufactured home park, mixed use park, or RV park
within the corporate limits of the town, without applying for and receiving a
permit to develop such a park as a planned unit development and meet all PUD
requirements set forth in the zoning ordinance. Applications for manufactured
home parks, RV parks, and mixed use parks shall be the same as those set forth
in PUD application and review process set forth in this code.
      3.   Modification Of Parks: If additional land is purchased to expand an
existing park, or if any existing park is expanded or altered by adding hookups
and/or lots, then the manager/operator/owner of the park must comply with all
the town ordinances, including, but not limited to applying for and receiving a
zoning compliance permit for a PUD, as set forth in this code.
      4.   If the park is permanently reduced in size by the removal of hookups
and/or lots, then in said event the park manager/ operator/owner shall notify
the town for the purpose of inspection to ensure removal of all products,
including utilities, sewage disposal system and by-products, and overall clean-
up and restoration of the premises.
      5.   Every person holding such a permit shall notify the town clerk in
writing within three (3) business days after having sold, transferred, given
away or otherwise disposed of, any interest in or control of the park, the name
and contact information of the person succeeding to the ownership or control of
such park.
      6.   Any person whose permit has been denied or suspended shall have the
right to appeal the decision to the board of adjustment as provided herein.
      7.   The town clerk shall charge and collect for each application a fee
in such sum as set by the board of trustees by motion or resolution.
   G.   Federal, State, And County Requirements:
      1.   In addition to the above stated requirements, every manager or
operator of a park shall be licensed through all of the appropriate federal,
state and county agencies, as applicable, including, but not limited to water,
sewage disposal and other required license.
      2.   Every owner, manager, and operator shall comply with any other rule
and regulation required by applicable federal, state, or county agencies,
including, but not limited to rules for water and sewage disposal. (Ord. 10-7-
3, 6-5-2017)
***** CHAPTER 8
OIL AND GAS DRILLING *****
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purpose And Intent
10-8-2: Definitions
10-8-3: Application Of Provisions
10-8-4: State Rules And Regulations Apply
10-8-5: Oil And Gas Inspector
10-8-6: Permit Requirements
10-8-7: Spill Contingency And Control Plan
10-8-8: Ground Water Monitoring Information
10-8-9: Surface Water Diversion Information
10-8-10: Directional And Abandoned Wells
10-8-11: Insurance Requirements
10-8-12: Location Restrictions
10-8-13: Pollution Prevention And Control
10-8-14: Off Site Construction; Conduits
10-8-15: Seismic Exploration
10-8-16: Operation And Construction Of Wells
10-8-17: Safety Precautions
10-8-18: Surface Facilities
10-8-19: Pipelines
10-8-20: Swabbing Wells
10-8-21: Sale Or Flaring Of Gas
10-8-22: Annual Inspection Fee
10-8-23: Change In Ownership, Interest Or Operator
10-8-24: Temporary Abandoned Wells
10-8-25: Records Kept; Confidentiality
10-8-26: Violations Prohibited
10-8-27: Complaints
10-8-28: Penalties
10-8-29: Order To Cease Operations
10-8-30: Appeals
10-8-31: Reoccurring Responsibilities
10-8-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   In order to protect the public health, peace, safety and welfare of the town
and its residents, this chapter is enacted to establish reasonable and uniform
limitations, safeguards, and controls for the drilling, operation and
production of oil, gas and other hydrocarbon substances within the corporate
limits of the town. The provisions set forth in this chapter shall be
considered as minimum requirements and shall not relieve any person from any
duty imposed by the law to use reasonable care and take reasonable precautions
for the safeguarding of people and the protection and noninterference with
property rights. (1994 Code § 5-901)
10-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
   All technical or oil and gas industry words or phrases used herein and not
specifically defined herein shall have those meanings customarily attributable
thereto by prudent operators in the oil and gas industry. For the purpose of
this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   ABANDONED WELL:
      A.   Each well in which no production casing has been run and for which
drilling or testing operations have ceased for thirty (30) consecutive days; or
      B.   Any other well for which there is no current town permit.
   ARTIFICIAL PRODUCTION: The raising of petroleum or natural gas to the
surface of the earth, by means other than natural flow.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES: The governing body of the town.
   BUILDING: Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy. The term "building" shall be construed as if followed by the
words "or portions thereof".
   CORPORATION COMMISSION: The Oklahoma corporation commission.
   DELETERIOUS SUBSTANCE: Any chemical, saltwater, oil field brine, waste oil,
waste emulsified oil, basic sediment, mud or injurious substances produced or
used in the drilling, development, producing, transporting, refining and
processing of oil, gas or condensate.
   DWELLING: Any building used as an abode for people or animals.
   ENHANCED RECOVERY: An operation in which fluid or energy is introduced into
a source of supply for the purpose of facilitating recovery therefrom.
   HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary line of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
   MAYOR: The chief elected official of the town.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Any automobile, truck, truck-tractor, trailer or semitrailer
or any motor bus or any self-propelled vehicle not operated or driven upon
fixed rails or tracks.
   OIL AND GAS INSPECTOR: That person, firm or corporation designated by the
town to enforce the provisions of this chapter, or authorized representatives.
   OPERATOR: Any person who owns or who has ever owned any working interest in
any well bore located within the corporate limits of the town, and any person
who operates or who has ever operated any well on a contractual basis for any
working interest owner.
   PERMITTEE: The person to whom is issued a permit or permits under the terms
of this chapter.
   PERSON: Means and includes any person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, trust, cooperative, or other type of organization.
   POLLUTION: The contamination or other alteration of the physical, chemical,
or biological properties of any natural waters of the town, or such discharge
of any liquid, gaseous or solid substance into any water of the town as will or
is likely to create a nuisance or render such waters harmful or detrimental or
injurious to the public health, safety, or welfare; to domestic, commercial,
industrial, agricultural, recreational or other beneficial uses; or to
livestock, animals or aquatic life.
   PRESSURE MAINTENANCE: An operation by which gas, water or other fluids are
injected into a supply of oil to maintain pressure or retard pressure.
   STATE: The state of Oklahoma, its branches, departments, agencies, boards or
the officers thereof.
   TOWN: The town of Wayne, Oklahoma.
   TREATABLE WATER: Surface and subsurface water in its natural state which may
or may not require treatment to be useful for human consumption, and contains
less than ten thousand (10,000) ppm total dissolved solids or five thousand
(5,000) ppm chlorides.
   WATER, WATERS OF THE TOWN OR TOWN WATER: Streams, lakes, ponds, marshes,
watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, irrigation systems, drainage systems,
and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface and underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through or border upon the town or any portion thereof.
   WELL: Unless specifically qualified, any hole or holes, bore or bores to any
depth for the purpose of producing and recovering any oil, gas or liquified
petroleum matter or deleterious substance, or for the injection or disposal of
any of the foregoing into the surface of the earth, by natural flow, petroleum
or natural gas. (1994 Code § 5-902)
10-8-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   This chapter shall apply to oil and gas and any other unnamed group
operating within the town, as defined and extended by law.
   B.   This chapter shall apply to any person drilling an original well,
reentering an abandoned well, conducting natural or artificial production
projects or operations, or maintaining a disposal well within the town on
December 1, 1984, and every such person shall have no longer than ninety (90)
days to come into compliance with this chapter. Provided, that:
      1.   No initial permit fees shall be charged such person as would
otherwise apply; and
      2.   No penalties shall be sought against any activity violative of this
chapter where such activity preexisted the adoption of this chapter and was
otherwise in compliance with the applicable state law, rules, regulations,
standards or directives. (1994 Code § 5-904)
10-8-4: STATE RULES AND REGULATIONS APPLY:
   All of the general rules and regulations of the corporation commission are
hereby incorporated into this chapter and may be enforced by the oil and gas
inspector. Any violation of any of these rules and regulations shall be subject
to enforcement and penalties as provided for in section 10-8-28 of this
chapter. In the event of any conflicts between the provisions of this chapter
and the corporation commission rules and regulations, the more restrictive
provision shall apply. (1994 Code § 5-904)
10-8-5: OIL AND GAS INSPECTOR:
   A.   The mayor shall designate a qualified person, firm or corporation as an
oil and gas inspector, whose duty it shall be to enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Since information of considerable value may be made available to town
officials and to the oil and gas inspector, confidentiality of this information
is of prime importance. Thus, all officials and agents of the town shall hold
such information in strict confidence. All information that is not otherwise
public information shall be considered the sole property of the operating
company and other working interest owners, and such property shall not be
released in fact or in summary to any other party except as required under
these regulations. Any infraction of this trust shall be considered by the town
board. If the oil and gas inspector is involved, the infraction shall be
grounds for terminating any and all contracts between the town and the oil and
gas inspector.
   B.   The oil and gas inspector shall have the authority to issue such orders
or directives as are required to carry out the intent and purpose of this
chapter and its particular provisions. Failure to abide by any such order or
directive shall be a violation of this chapter.
   C.   The oil and gas inspector shall have the authority to go upon and
inspect any premises covered by the terms of this chapter to ascertain whether
this chapter and the applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards or
directives of the state are being complied with. Failure to permit access to
the oil and gas inspector shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   D.   The oil and gas inspector shall have the authority to request and
receive any records specified in this chapter relating to the status or
condition of any well or project or the appurtenances therewith in the town.
Failure to provide any such requested material shall be deemed a violation of
this chapter.
   E.   The operator shall notify the oil and gas inspector sufficiently in
advance as to permit the oil and gas inspector to be present when the following
work is performed:
      1.   Running and cementing of conductor casing;
      2.   Pressure testing of BOP stack choke and choke manifold after initial
installation;
      3.   Running and cementing of surface casing;
      4.   Running bond logs;
      5.   Running and cementing intermediate casing;
      6.   Performing BOP drills when requested;
      7.   Performing actuation and pressure test of BOP stack when requested;
      8.   Performing formation leak off test;
      9.   Setting cement plugs while abandoning wells;
      10.   Installing tubing and packer where packer is required;
      11.   Working over or recompleting wells;
      12.   Abandoning wells;
      13.   Performing pressure tests on casing;
      14.   Repair of any casing leaks in wells;
      15.   Repair of any leaks in pipelines;
      16.   Cleanup of any spillage of oil, gas, or saltwater;
      17.   Running and cementing of production casing;
      18.   Annular mechanical integrity tests;
      19.   Collection of all samples from monitoring wells; and
      20.   Annual test of pipelines and conduits.
   F.   Additional duties of the oil and gas inspector are as follows:
      1.   Examine the application to the town and make recommendations to the
town board on all matters related to oil and gas operations.
      2.   Coordinate activities with the operating companies, including:
         a.   Assist with making applications to the town by providing
information, forms, and definitions;
         b.   Inspect all drilling and construction operations; and
         c.   Advise and approve changes where options are allowed in this
chapter. For example, to approve a contingency plan to obtain a degasser in
lieu of requiring one to be installed and in use (subsection
10-8-16D of this chapter).
(1994 Code § 5-942)
10-8-6: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful and an offense for any person acting
for himself or acting as agent, servant, employee, subcontractor, or
independent contractor of any other person to drill a well within the town, or
to work upon or assist in any way in the production or operation of any such
well, without a permit having first been issued by the authority of the oil and
gas inspector in accordance with this chapter. Only producing wells will be
considered for a permit. (1994 Code §§ 5-904, 5-905)
   B.   Application For Permit: Every application for a permit to drill an
original well or to reenter an abandoned well shall be in writing, signed by
the applicant or some person duly authorized to sign same on his behalf, and it
shall be filed with the oil and gas inspector and be accompanied by the filing
fee as set by the town board by motion or resolution 1 . No application shall
request a permit to drill more than one well. The application shall contain
full information required by the oil and gas inspector, including the
following:
      1.   Name and address of applicant and date of application;
      2.   The name and address of each working interest owner showing the
percent of interest held in the well. This listing must be updated yearly;
      3.   A block map of the ten (10) acres surrounding the drill site,
including thereon the location of the proposed well and distance therefrom to
all existing dwelling houses, buildings, or other structures designed for the
occupancy of human beings or animals and the owners thereof as shown by the
current tax rolls in the county treasurer's office, within six hundred feet
(600') of any such well, and the location of all existing oil, gas or
freshwater wells within the ten (10) acre tract;
      4.   The names of the surface and surface lease owners;
      5.   A copy of the approved drilling permit from the corporation
commission and a copy of the staking plat shall be filed with the town prior to
issuance of the municipal permit; (1994 Code § 5-905)
      6.   A drilling prognosis, to specify in detail the amount, weight, and
size of conductor pipe and surface pipe and the procedures to be used for
cementing such. All cement plans shall show the weight of cement to be used and
maximum pressure allowable to prevent fracturing. Plugging procedures to be
used in the event production is not established shall also be specified and
shall be in accordance with state corporation commission (see subsection
10-8-16F of this chapter); (1994 Code § 5-905; amd. 2004 Code)
      7.   A statement of the provisions for water for the drilling rig;
      8.   The proposed mud program, including statements from a prospective
supplier as to the toxic nature of all materials recommended in the plan. The
material safety data sheets shall also include handling and disposal
recommendations;
      9.   A written plan for disposal of deleterious substances produced
during the drilling operations and any deleterious substances produced as a
result of production from the well. This plan shall include the method of
transportation and the name of the transporter or transport contractor for the
deleterious substances and the permit number, name and phone number of the
operator company and location of the permitted disposal site;
      10.   The permittee shall maintain reports of volumes disposed of and
receipts for the disposal of same. If the disposal well is within the limits of
the town site, records of injection pressures shall also be maintained. These
records shall be open for inspection during normal office hours and submitted
to the oil and gas inspector as part of the yearly review;
      11.   A spill contingency plan. See section
10-8-7 of this chapter;
      12.   A ground water monitoring plan. See section
10-8-8 of this chapter;
      13.   A surface water diversion plan. See section
10-8-9 of this chapter;
      14.   A plan for performing the yearly mechanical integrity tests;
      15.   Plans for abandoning the well. This plan shall designate a method
of filling the well bore above the bottom plug to the base of the surface plug
with a material of sufficient compressive strength to support the surface plug.
The surface plug shall extend from two hundred feet (200') below the base of
the surface casing to the cut off point below flow depth. Normal corporation
commission rules shall apply except the requirements of filling the well bore
with a solid material and the length of the surface plug;
      16.   The name and address of the person within the state of Oklahoma
upon whom service of process upon applicant (or operator company, if different)
may be made within the state; and in the case of any nonresident person who has
no such service agent within the state, there shall be attached to the
application the designation of such a service agent resident in Oklahoma
County, Oklahoma, and a consent that service of summons may be made upon such
person in any action to enforce any of the obligations of the applicant
hereunder;
      17.   A verification of the above information by the applicant hereunder;
and
      18.   Power of attorney for each authorized signatories.
   C.   Additional Information Required: Other information in addition to that
required in the original permit application and actions necessary following
permit approval are:
      1.   Prior to spudding - laboratory reports on ground water samples. See
section
10-8-8 of this chapter;
      2.   Thirty (30) days prior to commencement of operation, notice of same
and application for trucking routes. See subsection
10-8-16A of this chapter;
      3.   Prior to final approval of the permit, all required bonds and
certifications of insurance must be submitted. See section
10-8-11 of this chapter;
      4.   Thirty (30) days prior to commencement of any excavations or off
site construction, any requirements under section
10-8-14 of this chapter; and
      5.   Five (5) working days prior to the actual commencement of work, the
town clerk-treasurer must be notified. The phone number is: (405) 396-2899. The
address is: P.O. Box 268, Arcadia, Oklahoma 73007. Failure to provide notice
shall be considered a violation, and penalties shall be assessed.
   D.   Specific Well Requirements: Refer to the following sections for
specific well requirements:
      1.   Directional wells. See subsection
10-8-10A of this chapter;
      2.   Reentry of abandoned wells. See subsection
10-8-10B of this chapter; and
      3.   Conduits on streets and alleys. See section
10-8-14 of this chapter. (1994 Code § 5-905)
   E.   Issuance Or Denial Of Permit:
      1.   The oil and gas inspector's office, within thirty (30) days after
the filing of an application for permit under this chapter, shall determine
whether or not the application complies in all respects with the provisions of
this chapter and applicable federal and state law and, if it does, shall
recommend to the mayor and the board of trustees that the permit be issued. The
oil and gas inspector shall have fifteen (15) days to review the permit. Each
permit issued under the terms of this chapter shall:
         a.   By reference, have incorporated therein all the provisions of
this chapter with the same force and effect as if this chapter were copied
verbatim therein;
         b.   By reference, have incorporated therein all the provisions of
applicable state law and the rules, regulations and standards adopted in
accordance therewith relating to the protection of human beings, animals, and
natural resources;
         c.   Specify that the term of the permit shall be for a period of one
year from the date of issuance thereof, and for like periods thereafter upon
the successful inspection of the permittee's well and operations, as is
provided for elsewhere herein;
         d.   Specify such conditions imposed by the oil and gas inspector as
are by this chapter authorized; and
         e.   Specify that no actual operations shall be commenced until the
permittee shall file and have approved the required bonds and certificate of
insurance in the appropriate amounts as provided for elsewhere herein.
      2.   If the permit is issued, it shall, in two (2) originals, be signed
by the oil and gas inspector and the permittee and, when so signed, shall
constitute the permittee's license to drill and operate in the town and the
contractual obligation of the permittee to comply with the terms of such
permit, such bonds as are required, and applicable state law, rules,
regulations, standards and directives. One executed original copy of the permit
shall be retained by the oil and gas inspector; the other shall be retained by
the permittee and shall be kept available for inspection by any town or state
law enforcement official who shall demand to see same.
      3.   If the permit is refused, or if the applicant notifies the oil and
gas inspector in writing that he does not elect to accept the permit as
tendered and wishes to withdraw his application, or if the bonds of the
applicant are not approved, then, upon the happening of any of the events, the
cash fee filed with the application shall be refunded to the applicant; except,
that there shall be retained therefrom by the town the sum of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) as a processing fee. (1994 Code § 5-913)
   F.   Fee And Renewal Of Permit: The permittee under subsection A of this
section shall pay to the town an annual and renewal fee as set out in section
2-2-8 of this code. The oil and gas inspector shall inspect such conduits to
ensure the public safety. No permit issued under subsection A of this section
shall be renewed if the conduit or any part thereof covered by such permit is
in an unsafe condition. (1994 Code § 5-936; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 See section
  2-2-8 of this code.
10-8-7: SPILL CONTINGENCY AND CONTROL PLAN:
   A.   Submission Of Plan; Required Information:
      1.   In addition, the permittee or applicant shall submit a deleterious
substance spill contingency plan that will be followed in reporting, cleanup,
and prevention of the spread of any pollution resulting from a deleterious
substance spill which might occur during drilling or production activities. The
plan shall include the description of procedures, persons, personnel,
equipment, and materials which will be used in combating any such spill. The
plan shall address two (2) degrees of response effort:
         a.   A deleterious substance spill resulting in pollutants being
carried outside the dike surrounding the well or facility site; and
         b.   A deleterious substance spill resulting in pollutants being
carried into surface waste.
      2.   The deleterious substance spill control plan shall include
provisions to assure that full resource capability is known and can be
committed during a spill, including the identification and inventory of
applicable equipment and materials which are available locally and regionally.
      3.   The deleterious substance spill control plan shall include
establishment of procedures for the purpose of early detection and timely
notification of a spill, including a current list of names, telephone numbers
and addresses of the responsible persons and alternates on call to receive
notification of a spill; and the names, telephone numbers and addresses of
regulatory organizations and agencies to be notified when a spill is
discovered. The plan shall include predesignation of a spill response
coordinator who is charged with the responsibility and is delegated
commensurate authority for directing and coordinating response operations. The
plan shall also include provisions for disposal of recovered spill materials.
      4.   The plan shall address the installation of a secondary protection
dike located between the well or facility site and any water to be protected.
When the oil and gas inspector considers a secondary dike to be effective and
practical, the permittee shall construct and maintain a secondary protection
dike at some point downslope of the well site, crossing any drainage channels
in such a manner that any fluid flowing downstream from the well or facility
site could be trapped. This secondary dike shall contain a simple slide gate or
valve, sized to pass surface water, which can be closed by one man. The gate
shall be left open at all times except when and if control of the well is lost,
in which event, the gate in the secondary dike shall be immediately closed and
left closed until control of the well is regained. If any contaminants have
entered the secondary dike pool, the pool shall be pumped dry and the pool area
cleaned of contaminants before the gate in the secondary dike is reopened.
   B.   Approval Of Plan; Annual Review: Approval of the plan by the oil and
gas inspector shall be a requirement for obtaining a permit. The plan shall be
reviewed annually by the permittee and revised as appropriate to compensate for
any changes in conditions at the well or facility site or at the area to be
protected. The permittee shall submit a plan or revised plan to the oil and gas
inspector on an annual basis. (1994 Code § 5-906)
10-8-8: GROUND WATER MONITORING INFORMATION:
   The applicant shall submit the following information concerned with
monitoring possible pollution of treatable and freshwater in the area of the
drill site. Domestic and public water supply wells located within a radius of
one-quarter (1/4) mile of any well shall be tested prior to beginning
production or injection operations and thereafter annually for the presence of
deleterious substances. The monitoring plan shall consist of:
   A.   Map: A map showing the designated monitoring wells. If a number of
wells exist in the designated area, only one up gradient well and two (2) down
gradient wells will be required. If contamination is envisioned or if a failure
in mechanical integrity has been detected, two (2) down gradient monitoring
wells shall be drilled and sampled on a recurring basis.
   B.   Sampling And Analysis Plan: A written sampling and analysis (S&A) plan
which includes procedures for sample collection, preservation, and the chain of
custody.
      1.   Samples:
         a.   Samples will be taken prior to spudding the well. The oil and gas
inspector shall be given adequate notification of the sampling date and time.
The following test shall be performed on the samples by an approved third party
laboratory:
            (1)   Total dissolved solids; and
            (2)   Total chlorides.
         b.   The results of this sampling shall be filed with the oil and gas
inspector and shall function as a base line to determine if pollution has
occurred.
      2.   Analyses: Once a year, the oil and gas inspector shall be notified
and samples taken and turned over to a qualified third party laboratory
(approved by the oil and gas inspector) for analysis. Such testing is the
responsibility of the permittee and at the permittee's expense and is to be
conducted by a party approved by the oil and gas inspector. (1994 Code § 5-907)
10-8-9: SURFACE WATER DIVERSION INFORMATION:
   A.   The applicant shall submit maps and drawings showing the means to be
used for diverting surface water from the drilling/production site. Any
structures required shall be sized to handle a ten (10) year SCS type II storm
without being toppled. Volumes shall be based on the SCS's graphical method.
Any changes in the surface runoff patterns must be directed from the area
without causing erosion. The applicant shall submit:
      1.   A reproduction of a map (topographic sheet) showing the drainage
area and proposed changes in drainage patterns.
      2.   All calculations indicating that the proposed patterns will not
create erosional velocities.
   B.   No specific requirements exist if the drainage area is less than ten
(10) acres and the slope across the drill site is less than five feet (5') per
one hundred feet (100').
   C.   If erosion is found to be occurring on the site or on adjacent areas
affected by production operations, additional corrective and protective
measures will be required. (1994 Code § 5-908)
10-8-10: DIRECTIONAL AND ABANDONED WELLS:
   A.   Directional Wells: Directional wells are those wells purposely deviated
from vertical. Directional wells must be identified in the application for
permit to drill. Both the surface and target locations must be identified. Upon
completion of the drilling of the well, a copy of the directional survey report
shall be filed with the oil and gas inspector. (1994 Code § 5-909)
   B.   Reentry Of Abandoned Wells: Where the application is one for the
reentry of an abandoned well, the application shall contain all the information
required of a new well. That application shall also provide all of the
following information:
      1.   The condition of the abandoned well at the time the application is
filed;
      2.   The depth to which it is proposed such well shall be deepened;
      3.   The casing program to be used in connection with the proposed
deepening;
      4.   The tests which will be run on the existing casing strings to show
that the casing strings meet the same requirements as for an original well.
Include any proposed remedial cementing. The oil and gas inspector shall be on
location for all such tests; and
      5.   VDL and PETTM/CETTM bond logs over the length of the existing
surface casing and extension to this casing shall be submitted. The oil and gas
inspector shall be on site when the log is run. Two (2) copies are to be
provided to the oil and gas inspector. (1994 Code § 5-910)
10-8-11: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Insurance Required:
      1.   Prior to the issuance of any permit and at least twenty (20) days
prior to the expiration date of any existing policy, the applicant shall
deposit with the town clerk-treasurer a cash or surety in an amount sufficient
to ensure compliance with all requirements of this chapter by the owner, his
driller, agents and employees during the drilling and operation of the well.
This surety shall be conditioned upon plugging of the well, removing all
pipelines, foundations, fences, vessels, tanks, pumps, electrical poles and
other facilities and the restoration of the land surface. Such plugging and
restoration shall be performed within ninety (90) days of the abandonment in
accordance with the rules and of the Oklahoma corporation commission and this
chapter. Such sureties will be prepaid with an annual renewal date
corresponding to the yearly well review. Since the surety bond must be in
effect as long as the well produces, the bond must be written as continuous or
until canceled. Upon noncompliance with the above listed conditions, the cash
amount or the surety bond shall be forfeited and shall provide for the plugging
of the well or the restoration of the land surface.
      2.   Prior to the issuance of any permit, the applicant shall also
deposit copies of the following insurance policies issued by a corporate
insurer licensed to do business in the state of Oklahoma: (1994 Code § 5-912)
         a.   A policy containing coverage for contamination and pollution of
surface or subterranean streams, watercourses, lakes or public or private water
supplies in an amount not less than two million dollars ($2,000,000.00).
         b.   A policy or policies of standard comprehensive public liability
insurance, including contractual liability covering bodily injuries and
property damage, in the face amount of not less than two million dollars
($2,000,000.00).
         c.   A worker's compensation policy in the face amount as may be
advised by the town attorney.
         d.   A blowout protection policy in the face amount of two million
dollars ($2,000,000.00) or more. (1994 Code § 5-912; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Town As Beneficiary: The operator may choose to have the town as an
additional beneficiary on all policies or, at the operator's election, pay for
a master policy for the town. In either case, the protection offered the town
and its environment shall be the same.
   C.   Cancellation Of Policies: The insurance policy or policies shall not be
canceled without written notice to the oil and gas inspector at least thirty
(30) days prior to the effective date of such cancellation. In the event the
policy or policies are canceled, the permits granted to that operating company
shall immediately thereupon terminate without any action on the part of the oil
and gas inspector or the town. The permittee's rights to operation shall cease
until permittee files additional insurance as provided herein. Operation may
not begin until insurance policy or policies have been approved.
   D.   Expiration Of Policies: The insurance policy or policies shall not be
allowed to expire. In the event the policy or policies do expire, all permits
granted to the operator shall immediately thereupon terminate without any
action on the part of the oil and gas inspector or the town. The permittee's
rights to operation shall cease until the permittee files additional insurance
and the policy or policies have been approved. (1994 Code § 5-912)
10-8-12: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Near Residences: No permit shall be issued for the drilling of an
original well or the reentry of an abandoned well at any location which is
nearer than four hundred feet (400') to any permanent residence or commercial
building, or which is closer than four hundred feet (400') to a producing
freshwater well.
   B.   Location In Or Obstruction Of Public Ways: No well shall be drilled,
and no permit shall be issued for any well to be drilled, at any location which
is within any of the streets or alleys of the town; and no street or alley
shall be blocked or encumbered or closed in any drilling or production
operation except with the written approval of the oil and gas inspector, and
then only temporarily. (1994 Code § 5-904)
10-8-13: POLLUTION PREVENTION AND CONTROL:
   A.   Pollution Prevention Required; Prohibitions:
      1.   All permittees, operators, contractors, drillers, service companies,
pipe pulling and salvaging contractors, or other persons shall at all times
conduct their operations and drill equipment, operate, produce, plug and
abandon all wells drilled for oil or gas, service wells or exploratory wells
(including seismic, core and stratigraphic holes) in a manner that will prevent
pollution and the migration of oil, gas, saltwater or other substances from one
stratum into another, including the Garber-Wellington aquifer or any other
freshwater bearing formation. Pollution of surface or subsurface freshwater by
deleterious substances used in connection with the exploration, drilling,
producing, refining, transporting or processing of oil or gas is hereby
prohibited. (1994 Code § 5-903)
      2.   No person shall deposit, drain or divert into or upon any public
highway, street or alley, drainage ditch, storm drain, sewer, gutter, paving,
creek, river, lake or lagoon, any oil or oily liquid with petroleum content or
any mud, rotary mud, sand, water or saltwater or in any manner permit by
seepage, overflow, deliberate release or otherwise any of such substances to
escape from any property owned, leased or controlled by such person to flow or
be carried into or upon any public highway, street or alley, drainage ditch,
storm drain, sewer, gutter, paving, creek, river, lake or lagoon, within the
town. (1994 Code §§ 5-903, 5-927)
      3.   All oil operations, drilling and production operations shall be
conducted in such a manner as to eliminate, as far as practicable, dust, noise,
vibrations or noxious odors and shall be in accordance with the best accepted
practices incident to exploration for, drilling for and production of oil, gas
and other hydrocarbon substances. Proven technological improvements in
exploration, drilling and production methods shall be adopted as they become
available, if capable of reducing factors of nuisance and annoyance.
      4.   In the completion of oil and gas, injection, disposal or surface
well, where acidizing or fracturing processes are used, no oil, gas or other
deleterious substances or pollutants shall be permitted to pollute any surface
or subsurface freshwaters.
      5.   In swabbing and bailing or purging a well, all deleterious
substances removed from the bore hole shall be placed in appropriate tanks, and
no substances shall be permitted to pollute any surface or subsurface
freshwaters.
      6.   In the event a rupture, break or opening occurs in the surface or
production casing, the permittee or operator or drilling contractor shall take
immediate action to reseal it and shall report the incident to the oil and gas
inspector promptly.
      7.   No permittee or any other person shall burn any trash or debris
within the town limits.
      8.   Toxic chemicals must be stored in their original containers. The oil
and gas inspector shall have the authority to limit the quantity and type of
the substances stored or used in these areas. The permittee shall provide a
list of all toxic chemicals along with the national safety data sheets on
products used or stored in these areas prior to their use. Continued use or
storage shall be reported in the survey for each year.
      9.   Miscellaneous regulations are as follows:
         a.   All leaking pumps, stuffing boxes, lines, tanks and connections
shall be promptly corrected and shall not be used while leaking. Drip pans
shall be installed where minor leaks are likely to occur;
         b.   All oil, water or deleterious substances from wet strings of
tubing shall be drained into steel tanks;
         c.   All oil cellars and oil pumps shall be promptly pumped out;
         d.   All leases shall be kept clean of refuse and other deleterious
matter; and
         e.   All ditches shall be kept clean and in a good state of repair.
(1994 Code § 5-927)
   B.   Enforcement Of Provisions:
      1.   The oil and gas inspector shall have the authority to require the
immediate shutting in or closing of any well if he finds that there exists,
within a one hundred foot (100') radius of any well, any gas or gasoline vapor
in a quantity sufficient to constitute, in his judgment or in the judgment of
the town fire chief, a fire hazard. The well shall remain shut or closed in
until the hazard and its cause are removed. (1994 Code § 5-927; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   In the event of any leakage or spillage of any pollutant or
deleterious substance, whatever the cause thereof, the permittee shall cause
the oil and gas inspector to be notified thereof promptly. The spill
contingency plan will be activated. If, in the judgment of the oil and gas
inspector, such leakage or spillage represents a potential environmental
hazard, he may issue whatever corrective orders he deems appropriate, and
additionally may require the appropriate testing of the surface and subsurface
for pollutant incursion, the cost of such test or tests to be borne by the
permittee. (1994 Code § 5-927)
10-8-14: OFF SITE CONSTRUCTION; CONDUITS:
   A.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: No permittee shall make any excavations or
construct any lines for the conveyance of fuel, water, or minerals on, under or
through areas of the town without first having obtained a permit upon
application to the town board.
      2.   Application For Permit: The application shall be in writing, signed
by the applicant or some person duly authorized to sign same on his behalf, and
it shall be filed with the oil and gas inspector and be accompanied by the
filing fee as set by the town board by motion or resolution 1 . No application
shall request a permit to install more than one line. The oil and gas inspector
shall prescribe the forms to be used for such application and the information
to accompany it.
      3.   Issuance Or Denial Of Permit: The town board shall, within twenty
(20) days of receipt of the properly executed application, either grant or deny
the request. The granting of any such permit shall not be construed to be the
granting of a franchise.
   B.   Operation Restrictions; Conduit Specifications: In no case shall gas or
air be transported through any pipeline at a working pressure in excess of one
thousand (1,000) pounds. A pipe used for the transportation of air or gas
ranging from six hundred (600) to one thousand (1,000) pounds' pressure shall
be from two (2) to ten inches (10") in outer diameter and shall be seamless API
pipe with welded or screwed couplings. Lines carrying deleterious substances
and low pressure gas (psi 100) may be nonmetallic. Any new or replacement pipe
shall be covered and not less than forty eight inches (48") below the regular
ground level and shall be placed in conduit whenever laid under any portion of
a street, roadway, alley or driveway ordinarily used for heavy vehicular
traffic. These lines shall be tested before being used and every twelve (12)
months during the annual well inspection cycle. The test shall be made with
water. Pipe shall stand a pressure of two thousand (2,000) pounds. Nonmetallic
lines will be tested to eighty percent (80%) of the manufacturer's state
internal yield strength.
   C.   Safety Precautions; Warning Devices: The permittee will erect and
maintain all barricades, lights and traffic control devices needed. The
permittee shall notify "Oklahoma One Call" at least three (3) working days
before digging:
      "Call Okie" at 1-800-522-6543 or in Oklahoma City 405-840-5032.
   D.   Designation Of Conduits: The location of all new or replacement
pipelines shall be marked by the owners thereof or by the person installing
such pipelines as follow:
      1.   Marker signs shall be placed at all locations where pipelines cross
property boundary lines and at each side of a public street or road right of
way which the pipeline crosses;
      2.   The top of all marker signs shall be a minimum of four feet (4')
above ground level, and the support post shall be painted yellow;
      3.   All marker signs shall be a minimum of twelve inches (12") square
and shall be marked as "gas pipeline", "oil pipeline", or "S.W. pipeline" as
may be applicable; and
      4.   All marker signs shall contain the name of the owner of the
pipeline.
   E.   As Built Drawings: A set of as built drawings of all lines constructed
shall be submitted. These drawings shall show the location of all lines, the
depth of burial, the materials used in construction, and the location of all
valves, vents, drips and fittings of significance.
   F.   Restoration Of Area: The permittee shall restore all surfaces to
preconstruction conditions.
   G.   Inspections: The oil and gas inspector shall inspect all pressure lines
in use at any well or at any project to assure that tubing, fittings, equipment
or connections are reasonably tight, safe and free from leaks. (1994 Code § 5-
911)
 
Notes
1 See section
  2-2-8 of this code.
10-8-15: SEISMIC EXPLORATION:
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to conduct seismic
exploration or related activities in the town limits without first having filed
an application for a permit with the oil and gas inspector and paying a fee,
based on each mile of cable proposed to be laid, in such sum as set by the town
board by motion or resolution 1 . The application shall be accompanied by a
chart or map outlining proposed activities and time frame. (1994 Code § 5-915)
 
Notes
1 See section
  2-2-8 of this code.
10-8-16: OPERATION AND CONSTRUCTION OF WELLS:
   A.   Determination Of Routes To Well Site; Notice Of Operation:
      1.   At least thirty (30) days prior to the actual commencement of any
operations at the well site, the permittee shall notify the oil and gas
inspector in writing of the proposed date for commencement of such operations.
Such notification shall also contain the following information:
         a.   The permittee shall identify the maximum length, width and weight
of any motor vehicles and the maximum weight of the load to be carried by any
motor vehicles to be used in traveling to and from the well site; and
         b.   The permittee shall submit a complete list of the proposed routes
to and from the well site for all motor vehicles to be used to travel to and
from the well site. Such list shall identify any and all streets and highways
within the limits of the town proposed to be used by such motor vehicles in
traveling to and from the well site.
      2.   The oil and gas inspector may also require any additional
information which he deems necessary to evaluate the proposed routes.
      3.   Upon receipt of the notification required under subsections A1a and
A1b of this section, the oil and gas inspector shall have fifteen (15) days to
review the information submitted by the permittee.
      4.   Following review of the information submitted by the permittee, the
oil and gas inspector shall prepare a written order which either approves or
disapproves the routes to and from the well site as proposed by the permittee.
If the oil and gas inspector disapproves of all or part of the proposed routes,
then such inspector shall designate alternate routes which are acceptable. If
the permittee disagrees with the routes as designated by the oil and gas
inspector, then he shall have such right of appeal to the town board.
      5.   During all drilling and production activities for the particular
well, all motor vehicles used by any person to travel to and from the well site
shall be restricted to the streets and highways approved by the oil and gas
inspector as appropriate routes to and from the well site.
      6.   The oil and gas inspector shall have the power and authority to
amend the order designating routes to and from the well site upon his own
initiative or upon application by the permittee. (1994 Code § 5-916)
   B.   Drilling And Reentry Operations:
      1.   Well control requirements are as follows:
         a.   From the time drilling operations are commenced until the well is
completed or abandoned, the senior on site representative of the operator or
the drilling contractor's drillers and tool pushers shall have current
certification in well control through satisfactory completion of a U.S. mineral
management service approved well control school. These individuals shall
provide proof of having completed the prescribed course upon the oil and gas
inspector's request. The operator's representative and the drilling
contractor's tool pusher shall be available in a reasonably short period of
time to assist with any well control problems which may develop. In no instance
shall any person without well control certification be allowed to perform the
responsibilities of the above referenced positions, unless he is performing his
duties under the direct, on site supervision of an appropriately certified
individual;
         b.   The following information shall be posted on the rig floor at all
times after drilling is commenced:
            (1)   Procedure for closing in the well using blowout preventers
when:
               (A)   The operation is drilling or circulating with the bit on
bottom; and
               (B)   The operation is tripping the drill string. (1994 Code §
5-917)
            (2)   Prerecorded data as required by the corporation commission.
(1994 Code § 5-917; amd. 2004 Code)
            Posted data must be revised as conditions change. The circulating
pump rates and pressures must be rechecked and the posted data revised at least
once each twenty four (24) hours when drilling; and
         c.   The oil and gas inspector shall have access to all information
pertaining to a well drilled under these rules.
      2.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to use or operate, in
connection with the drilling, reentry or reworking of any well within the town,
any wooden derrick or any steam powered rig, and all engines shall be equipped
with adequate mufflers. Permitting any drilling rig or derrick to remain on the
premises or drilling site for a period of longer than sixty (60) days after
completion or abandonment of a well is hereby prohibited.
      3.   All drilling, reentry and operations at any well performed under
this chapter shall be conducted in accordance with the best practices of the
reasonably prudent operator. All casing, valves, and blowout preventers,
drilling fluid, tubing, bradenhead, Christmas tree and well head connections
shall be of a type and quality consistent with the best practices of such
reasonably prudent operator. Setting and cementing casing and running drill
stem tests shall be performed in a manner and at a time consistent with the
best practices of such reasonably prudent operator. Any permittee under this
chapter shall observe and follow the recommendations or regulations of the
American petroleum institute and the corporation commission, except in those
instances that are specifically addressed by this chapter.
      4.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to move or cause to be
moved the drilling rig from a well until the hole has been cased or properly
plugged, unless written permission to do so is obtained from the oil and gas
inspector.
      5.   Pit regulations are as follows:
         a.   Steel mud circulating pits shall be used. Such pits and contents
shall be removed from the premises and the drilling site within thirty (30)
days after completion of the well. Earthen pits will be allowed only as
temporary emergency pits, reserve pits or catch basins. Catch basin pits shall
be used only for the purpose of catching any deleterious substance runoff and
shall be not greater than three hundred twenty (320) cubic feet.
         b.   All such earthen pits must be approved in writing by the oil and
gas inspector. No earthen pit shall be constructed or maintained so as to
receive water from a watershed, and the fluid level of each earthen pit shall
be maintained at all times at least twelve (12) vertical inches below the
discharge of the pit.
         c.   Also, emergency pits shall be emptied as soon as the emergency is
over, and all such pits shall be emptied and then leveled within fifteen (15)
days after completion of the emergency. The oil and gas inspector shall be
notified by phone and in writing of each use of an emergency pit.
         d.   The oil and gas inspector shall be notified in writing whenever
an earthen pit is abandoned.
      6.   All open hole formation testing shall be done during daylight hours,
with advance notification thereof made to the oil and gas inspector, adequate
to enable him to be present if he so chooses. Fluid removed from the well
during testing must be flowed or pumped into steel pits or tanks and promptly
removed from the location at the conclusion of testing. Temporary catch bins
can be used, if necessary. (1994 Code § 5-917)
   C.   Loss Of Well Control: In the event any well blows out or becomes out of
control, the operator shall immediately notify the oil and gas inspector by
telephone or personal contact, and the oil and gas inspector and his agents
shall have full access to the well site and surrounding area. All condensate,
oil, mud, saltwater, and other wastes from the well shall be blocked off and
shall not be permitted to enter the reservoir or surface streams. The operator
will anticipate the worst possible blowout or overflow conditions, and shall
have readily available at all times sufficient material and equipment to
prevent pollutants from reaching the surface under any conceivable conditions.
The permittee conducting operations shall be solely responsible for all damages
and shall restore the surface to its original condition. Reference is made to
section
10-8-7 of this chapter. (1994 Code § 5-918)
   D.   Blow Out Prevention Equipment: Blowout preventers and related well
control equipment shall be installed, used and tested in a manner necessary to
prevent blowouts. Prior to drilling below the surface casing and until drilling
operations are completed, blowout prevention equipment shall be installed and
maintained ready for use as follows:
      1.   Before drilling below either of these casing strings, the blowout
prevention equipment shall include a minimum of three (3) remotely controlled
hydraulically operated blowout preventers with a working pressure which exceeds
the maximum anticipated surface pressure. The blowout preventers shall be one
annular type, one ram type equipped with blind rams and one ram type equipped
with pipe rams to fit the drill pipe being used. The BOP stack shall include a
drilling spool with side outlets if side outlets are not provided on the
blowout preventer body. A choke line and manifold and a separate kill line with
working pressure at least equal to three thousand (3,000) psi pressure shall be
installed ready for use. A fillup line shall also be installed ready for use,
and the fillup line shall be located above the annular BOP.
      2.   Two (2) blowout preventer tests shall be required, as follows:
         a.   Pressure Test:
            (1)   Ram type blowout preventers shall be tested with water to the
rated working pressure of the stack assembly. The pressure test required for
blowout preventers installed on surface casing shall be three thousand (3,000)
psi for the ram type blowout preventers and one thousand five hundred (1,500)
psi for the annular type.
            (2)   Pressure test shall be performed:
               (A)   When a BOP stack is installed;
               (B)   Before drilling out after each string of casing is set;
               (C)   Following repairs that require disconnecting a pressure
seal in the assembly; and
               (D)   Not less than once each forty five (45) days.
            (3)   All pressure tests shall be recorded in the driller's log;
and
         b.   Actuation Test: While drill pipe is in use, ram type blowout
preventers shall be actuated to test function once each trip. The annual type
preventer shall be actuated on the drill pipe once each week. All actuation of
the blowout preventers shall be recorded in the driller's log.
      3.   A blowout prevention drill shall be conducted each week for each
crew to ensure that all equipment is in working order to ensure that crews are
properly trained to carry out emergency duties. The oil and gas inspector may
require a blowout prevention drill at any time, well bore conditions
permitting, after conferring with the operator's representative. All BOP drills
shall be recorded in the driller's log.
      4.   The choke manifold shall contain as a minimum two (2) adjustable
chokes. The manifold shall contain provisions for bypassing the chokes and
diverting the flow away from the rig. The choke manifold shall be designed and
installed in a manner that will provide the least resistance to flow. Sharp
turns in the piping shall be avoided. Any sharp bends that cannot be avoided
shall be constructed utilizing targeted tees or block wells. The manifold shall
meet the recommendation of the latest version of API RP no. 53 for the class of
blowout preventer being used. The blowout preventer used in areas covered by
these rules shall meet or exceed the requirements for API class 3M. The piping,
valves, chokes, and all fittings, etc., located in the choke manifold shall
have a working pressure at least equal to the maximum anticipated casing
pressure. The choke manifold, choke line, and kill line shall be pressure
tested at the same time as the ram blowout preventers. The choke manifold and
choke line shall be anchored adequately to prevent movement during use.
      5.   The accumulator system shall be capable of storing sufficient
pressured hydraulic fluid to actuate the blowout preventers several times
without using the pumps. In addition, the closing unit shall be equipped with
pumps capable of closing the annular BOP in two (2) minutes or less without
using the fluid stored in the accumulator bottles. The functions of all BOP
control stations shall be clearly marked.
      6.   Other equipment regulations are as follows:
         a.   An inside blowout preventer (back pressure valve) or an
essentially full opening drill string safety valve shall be maintained in the
open position on the rig floor at all times. Sufficient inside blowout
preventers or safety valves shall be maintained on the rig floor to fit all
pipe in the drill string. A kelly cock shall be installed below the swivel;
         b.   Safety valves, and kelly cock shall be pressure tested to the
working pressure rating by applying pressure to the bottom side of the device
before drilling operations are commenced;
         c.   Pressure indicators shall be provided on the rig floor to
indicate the stand pipe pressure. A pressure indicating device to indicate the
choke manifold pressure shall be installed on the choke manifold;
         d.   A degasser or other approved equipment for removing gas from
drilling mud shall be installed in a proper manner ready for use before
drilling a potentially producible oil or gas zone or, if approved by the oil
and gas inspector, it will be acceptable to present a contingency plan to have
a degasser installed in a short period of time if required; and
         e.   When production or intermediate casing is being run, a valve with
connections to fit the casing being run shall be readily available on the rig
floor.
      7.   Blowout preventers shall be installed prior to working over an old
well or testing new zones. If tubing is to be pulled from or installed in a
producing well, blowout preventers and related equipment shall be installed and
operative. (1994 Code § 5-919)
   E.   Drilling Muds:
      1.   Mud System:
         a.   As noted in section
10-8-6 of this chapter, the proposed mud program shall be submitted. Except for
emergencies, this program shall be followed. Only additions approved by the oil
and gas inspector shall be added to the mud system.
         b.   The use of mud and the testing and control of mud properties
shall be such as are necessary to maintain pressure control of the well at all
times. Quantities of mud or mud materials sufficient to ensure well control
shall be readily available for use at all times.
         c.   The mud pit will be equipped with an electric level adaptor or
similar alarm system approved by the oil and gas inspector when drilling and
testing below the surface casing.
         d.   Before starting out of the hole with drill pipe, the mud shall be
properly conditioned by circulating with the drill pipe near the bottom until
the annular volume is displaced and the properties of the return mud are within
the normal range.
         e.   When removing the drill pipe from the hole, the annulus shall be
filled with mud before the mud level drops one hundred feet (100') below the
flow line. As a minimum, the hole shall be filled every five (5) stands of
drill pipe and every stand of drill collars.
         f.   The number of stands of drill pipe and drill collars that may be
pulled before filling the hole shall be determined and posted on the rig floor.
The number of barrels of mud (and the number of pump strokes) required to fill
the hole corresponding to the determined number of stands of drill pipe and
drill collars shall also be posted.
         g.   Mud test equipment to measure viscosity and density shall be
available on the drilling rig at all times, and comprehensive mud tests must be
performed every twenty four (24) hours or more frequently as conditions
warrant. (1994 Code § 5-920)
      2.   Water For Muds: No freshwater supply wells shall be drilled to
provide water for making drilling muds. (1994 Code § 5-921)
      3.   Disposal Of Muds: The disposal of drilling mud shall be by
transporting the mud to a state licensed disposal site. The mud may not be
buried in an earthen pit, pumped down the well bore or down the annulus of a
well, nor spread on the surface of the ground. (1994 Code § 5-922)
   F.   Casing:
      1.   General Requirements: Prior to running or cementing each casing
string, the operator shall notify the oil and gas inspector of his intentions
to set and to cement casing. Such notice shall be given sufficiently in advance
of such operations so as to permit the oil and gas inspector to be present when
the casing is run and cemented if he so elects. All casing, except conductor
casing, shall be new or approved used casing which has been pressure tested and
drifted. All pipe used must meet standard American petroleum institute (API)
specifications. A copy of all logs or other information associated with the
selection of the surface casing setting point and a copy of all bond logs shall
be filed with the oil and gas inspector.
      2.   Conductor Casing: Conductor casing shall be set to a depth of forty
feet (40') or to bedrock, whichever is less. The conductor hole shall be
drilled with freshwater and native mud or air. No chemicals or foreign
substances are to be added to the drilling fluid. The conductor casing shall be
cemented to the surface. This can be done by circulating cement or by using the
grout method. After cementing the conductor casing, drilling shall not be
resumed until the cement has set for twenty four (24) hours.
      3.   Surface Casing: Surface casing requirements are as follows:
         a.   Surface casing shall be set at a minimum depth to penetrate three
hundred feet (300') below the base of the treatable water zones (estimated to
be at 400 feet to 450 feet on the Johnson #1 log - section 20 T14N R1W) as
defined by the Garber-Wellington association or at a greater depth if required
by the state corporation commission or the oil and gas inspector in order to
protect both freshwater bearing strata and to remove any possibility of
contaminating fluids or gases reaching the surface through vertical fracture
systems or along fault planes. Surface casing shall be constructed of steel
casing grade J-55 or K-55. In setting the surface casing, centralizers shall be
installed on the casing as follows: one in the middle of the shoe joint, one at
the top of the second joint of casing, and additional centralizers not more
than one hundred feet (100') apart above the second centralizer. Pipe movement
during cement displacement is required. The casing shall be suspended off
bottom while cement is placed and allowed to set. The cement shall be
circulated to the surface and allowed to set under pressure for at least
eighteen (18) hours or any longer time required for the cement to reach a
compressive strength of five hundred (500) psi before reentering the well bore.
The cement is considered to be under pressure if one or more float valves are
used and are shown to be holding or if other means of holding pressure is used;
         b.   Casing shall be cemented with a type of cement approved by the
oil and gas inspector or his agents. Fracturing of the surface formations is
prohibited. The weights of cements used and the maximum allowable surface
pressures will be limited by this requirement;
         c.   If cement is not circulated to the surface, the oil and gas
inspector shall be notified. The cement shall be permitted to set, and small
diameter pipe shall be run down the outside of the surface casing to the top of
the hardened cement. Cement shall be pumped down the small pipe to fill the
annulus to the surface;
            (1)   A cement bond log, obtained using a dual receiver tool
(displaying the VDLTM/CETTM shall be run from the casing shoe to the surface,
and an acceptable bond must be demonstrable. Prior to running the bond log,
sufficient advance notice must be given as to permit the oil and gas inspector
to be present. In any case, the bond log must be submitted to the oil and gas
inspector within twenty four (24) hours of being run. If an acceptable bond is
not obtained, the casing shall be recemented until an acceptable bond is
achieved and demonstrated with an additional bond log. A drill stem test or
"dry test" of all squeezed perforations will be required;
            (2)   The casing shall be pressure tested by applying a surface
pressure until the pressure at the show shall exceed the maximum hydrostatic
pressure expected at that point during subsequent operations. Except, that
eighty percent (80%) of the internal yield pressure of the casing shall not be
exceeded. This pressure shall be held for one hour. Whenever the pressure drops
ten percent (10%) within the hour, the casing will be deemed inadequate and
shall be repaired and retested until the requirements hereof are met;
         d.   After drilling out the cement shoe twenty (20) to fifty feet
(50') of previously undrilled formation, the strength of the formation and the
cement outside the casing shall be tested by applying pressure inside the newly
cemented casing until the pressure at the shoe exceeds the maximum hydrostatic
pressure expected at that point during subsequent drilling operations; and
         e.   After setting the surface casing, the operator shall certify by
affidavit that the well has been set according to good engineering practices.
The affidavit shall stipulate the number of sacks of cement, the class of
cement, blending materials, weight of cement in pounds per gallon, cement
displacement, pressure, final pumping pressure, a description of the returns to
the surface, the depth to the cement measured after the cement has set, and
whether check valves (float shoes, float collar) held the pressure.
Commencement and completion times of such operation shall be stipulated. The
affidavit shall be completed by a cementing service company.
      4.   Intermediate Casing: Intermediate casing shall be set when required
by well conditions. Well conditions considered shall include, but are not
necessarily limited to, abnormal pressures, subnormal pressures, porous zones,
and fracture mud weights. The setting depth of intermediate casing will be
determined by the strength of the weakest exposed formation below the surface
casing shoe. In setting the intermediate string, centralizers shall be placed
in the area of the hole where cement is required at intervals no greater than
sixty feet (60'). A sufficient quantity of cement shall be used to cover the
shallowest potentially producible hydrocarbon zone by five hundred feet (500')
to isolate all hydrocarbon zones and to isolate abnormal or subnormal pressure
intervals. Cement shall be allowed to set under pressure for eighteen (18)
hours before reentering the well bore. A bond log shall be run from the casing
shoe to the top of the interval where cement is required, and a bond shall be
cemented until an acceptable bond is achieved and demonstrated with a bond log.
The intermediate casing shall be pressure tested prior to drilling out the
shoe. The bond log shall be submitted to the oil and gas inspector within
twenty four (24) hours.
      5.   Production Casing: Production casing and all related equipment
items, such as the well head, valves, etc., shall have a working pressure
rating sufficiently in excess of the highest formation pressure encountered in
the well. This string of casing shall be installed before completing the well
for production. In setting the production string, centralizers shall be placed
in the area of the hole where cement is required at intervals not greater than
sixty feet (60'). The casing shall be cemented in a manner to isolate all
potentially producible hydrocarbon zones, and the annular space shall be filled
with cement at least five hundred feet (500') above the uppermost producible
hydrocarbon zone. When a liner is used as a production string, the seal between
the inner and the next larger casing string shall be tested by a fluid entry or
pressure test to determine whether a seal between the liner and the next larger
string has been achieved. The test results shall be recorded in the driller's
log. (1994 Code § 5-923)
   G.   Completion Of Well; Affidavit Required: Upon completion of the well,
the operator shall certify by affidavit that the well has been set according to
good engineering practices. The affidavit shall stipulate the number of sacks
of cement, the class of cement, blending materials, weight of cement in pounds
per gallon, cement displacement, pressure, final pumping pressure and whether
check valves (float shoes, float collar) held the pressure. Commencement and
completion times of such operation shall be stipulated. The affidavit shall be
completed by a cementing service company. (1994 Code § 5-924)
   H.   Installation Of Tubing:
      1.   Before commencing the installation or removal of tubing on each well
where tubing is to be installed or removed, an approved blowout preventer shall
be placed in or at the top of the Christmas tree assembly at some point above
the master gate on the casing or oil flow string. The blowout preventer may, at
the option of the operator, be removed at the completion of the work of
installing or removing the tubing. If and when the blowout preventer is
removed, an approved type of head or support capable of supporting the weight
of the string of tubing and tested to withstand a minimum test pressure of
three thousand (3,000) pounds per square inch shall be installed on the well.
      2.   Before tubing is installed or withdrawn, the well shall be killed by
pumping or flowing a fluid into it, or a fan or pump or other device shall be
place at the top of the well, or in the well connections. The choice of device
shall be left to the operator of the well and shall be subject to approval by
the oil and gas inspector. The fan, pump or other device shall be designed and
operated to effectively remove or dissipate any gas or gasoline vapor coming
from the well or accumulating about the top of the well. At all times while the
tubing is being installed or withdrawn, adequate pumps, proper connections and
a sufficient reserve supply of fluid shall be available which will permit the
pumping or flowing of sufficient fluid to kill the well. If such device is
placed at the top of the well or in the well connections and it effectively
removes or dissipates gas or gasoline vapors coming from the well or
accumulating about the top of the well, it shall be deemed in compliance with
the provisions of this subsection. (1994 Code § 5-925)
   I.   Motive Power: Motive power for all well pumping equipment shall be
electricity unless otherwise approved by the oil and gas inspector. (1994 Code
§ 5-932)
   J.   Waste Disposal: Every permittee under this chapter shall be responsible
for the safe disposal of saltwater or other deleterious substances which may be
brought to the surface of the earth and shall provide a plan for such disposal
as required in section
10-8-6 of this chapter. Such disposal shall not result in pollution of the
waters of the town and shall not result in any other environmental hazard and
shall incorporate the best available techniques and equipment. (1994 Code § 5-
933)
10-8-17: SAFETY PRECAUTIONS:
   A.   Generally: Persons drilling, operating or maintaining any well shall
use all necessary care and take all precautions which shall be reasonably
necessary under the circumstances to protect the public. The provisions of this
subsection shall be deemed to be the minimum requirements for the preservation
of the public health, safety and welfare, and compliance with the terms hereof
shall not be deemed to relieve any persons of any additional duty imposed by
law. (1994 Code § 5-914)
   B.   Fire Prevention: Adequate firefighting apparatus and supplies approved
by the town fire department shall be maintained on the drilling site at all
times during drilling operations. All machinery, equipment and installations on
all drilling sites within the town limits shall conform with national fire
codes published by the National Fire Protection Association and such
requirements as may be issued by the fire department. (1994 Code § 5-926)
10-8-18: SURFACE FACILITIES:
   A.   Maintenance Required:
      1.   Whenever necessary to protect the health, safety or welfare of the
public, the oil and gas inspector is hereby authorized to direct any permittee
or operator to locate, relocate, remove or replace any well surface facilities
located within a particular drilling unit.
      2.   All lease equipment shall be painted and maintained in a good state
of appearance and shall have posted in a prominent place a metal sign no less
than two feet (2') square in area upon which the following information shall be
conspicuously inscribed: permittee's name; lease name; location of the drill
site by reference to the United States geological survey; identifying number of
the permit issued by the town; and other data as required by the corporation
commission.
      3.   Lease roads shall be maintained in such a manner as to safely and
comfortably allow for ingress and egress of town or state personnel traveling
in a common passenger motor vehicle.
   B.   As Built Drawings: A set of as built drawings shall be submitted
showing the relative locations of all equipment, valves, vents, drips, and
lines on the site along with a description of the capacities and working
pressures of the equipment and materials used in the pipelines.
   C.   Fencing, Screening And Landscaping: Fencing, screening and landscaping
regulations are as follows:
      1.   Fence Requirements: Any person who owns, operates or maintains any
producing well shall have the obligation to enclose the well, together with its
surface facilities, by a sightproof fence sufficiently high (at least 7 feet
high and topped by 3 strands of barbed wire) and properly built to keep persons
and animals out of the enclosure. All gates thereto shall be kept locked when
authorized persons are not within the enclosure. A duplicate set of keys to the
lock shall be filed with the oil and gas inspector. The oil and gas inspector,
upon written application by a permittee, may designate a different type of
fence to be erected if he determines in a particular case that a sightproof
fence is not necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare; and
      2.   Landscaping And Screening Requirements: Any person who completes any
producing well located within seven hundred feet (700') of any occupied or
unoccupied dwelling or where the site is exposed to areas of high traffic shall
also meet the following sightproof landscaping requirements:
         a.   Such persons shall install evergreen vegetation or combinations
of landscaped earth berms and evergreens around those sides within seven
hundred feet (700') of the dwellings or those sides exposed to high traffic.
The berms shall enclose all fences or lease equipment and facilities;
         b.   The vegetation or berm combinations shall be a minimum of six
feet (6') in height; and
         c.   The vegetation or berms shall be maintained by the town after
viability of the vegetation is established.
   D.   Storage Tanks And Separators: Storage tank and separator regulations
are as follows:
      1.   All equipment shall be constructed to API specifications and so
certified. All equipment will be properly designed to handle the fluid loads
and expected pressure;
      2.   Any tanks located within six hundred sixty feet (660') of any
existing residence shall be pressurized and equipped with a vapor recovery
system. Any future development within this radius will necessitate installation
of a vapor recovery system;
      3.   Crude oil storage tanks shall not be constructed, operated or used
except to the extent of two (2) steel tanks for oil storage, not exceeding
three hundred (300) barrels' capacity each and so constructed and maintained as
to be vaportight. Additional tankage may be approved by the oil and gas
inspector. All storage tanks and separators shall be equipped with liquid level
switches and related equipment necessary to automatically shut off associated
wells and pumping to prevent the overflow of such tanks and equipment. These
"high level" switches, floats, and associated valves shall be maintained in a
working order at all times. If these detectors are found to be inoperative, the
oil and gas inspector shall issue an order to cease operations as provided
under section
10-8-29 of this chapter, and penalties as provided under section
10-8-28 of this chapter shall be assessed;
      4.   A permittee may use, construct and operate a steel conventional
separator and such other steel tanks and appurtenances as are necessary for
treating oil, with each of such facilities to be so constructed and maintained
as to be vaportight. Each oil or gas separator shall be equipped with both a
regulation pressure relief safety valve and a busting head;
      5.   Any tanks, batteries, separators, heater treaters, etc., shall be
enclosed with earthen or other acceptable retaining walls with a storage
capacity of at least one and one-half (1 1/2) times the liquid capacity of the
tanks within the storage; and
      6.   No drains shall be placed in the dike wall. Any rainwater or other
substance present inside the dike area and outside the tanks shall be promptly
removed. (1994 Code § 5-928)
10-8-19: PIPELINES:
   The requirements of section
10-8-14 of this chapter apply to pipelines. (1994 Code § 5-929)
10-8-20: SWABBING WELLS:
   A.   Compliance With Provisions: No person shall begin the operation of
swabbing an oil or gas well without first complying with the provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   Lubricator Required; Specifications:
      1.   No well shall be swabbed before a device, commonly known as a
lubricator, has been placed on the flow casing above all outlets or flow line
of the well.
      2.   The lubricator shall be not less in diameter than the flow casing
and equipped with an adequate oil saver or stuffing box at the top.
      3.   The total inside length of the lubricator shall be not less than
five feet (5') more than the total length of swab and turn back on swab line.
      4.   The lubricator shall have a nipple not less than two inches (2") in
diameter nor more than four inches (4") in length, placed not more than six
inches (6") from top and, on flow lines, between gate valve on the flow lines
and flow casings. The nipple shall be provided with a gate valve not less than
two inches (2") in size.
      5.   All equipment and parts of the lubricator shall be of a type
designed and tested to withstand a pressure of three thousand (3,000) pounds
per square inch. All pressure tests shall be by the hydrostatic method.
   C.   Tie Down Of Lubricator:
      1. The lubricator shall be tied down from the top to the casing next in
size to flow casing with wire line of not less than five-eighths inch (5/8") in
diameter or by iron or steel rods not less than one and one-fourth inches (1 1/
4") in diameter.
      2.   The tie down shall be equipped with turnbuckles and adequate clamps.
      3.   Guy lines shall be provided from the top and bottom of the
lubricator to the derrick legs. The guy lines shall be not less than five-
eighths inch (5/8") in diameter and shall be tied into the derrick legs at the
same level as on the lubricator.
      4.   A small gate valve at the top of the lubricator shall be tied back
to it, using clamps of required size. (1994 Code § 5-930)
10-8-21: SALE OR FLARING OF GAS:
   All produced gas shall either be sold or flared with the flaring procedure
being approved by the state corporation commission, oil and gas inspector and
town fire chief. (1994 Code § 5-931; amd. 2004 Code)
10-8-22: ANNUAL INSPECTION FEE:
   An annual inspection fee is hereby levied upon each well operated or
maintained under a permit issued by the town. Such fee shall be in the amount
as set by the town board 1 , payable to the town on or before the annual
anniversary date of the issuance of any permit under this chapter. No permit
for any well shall be considered valid for any year for which the annual fee
has not been paid. Failure to pay any required permit fee within thirty (30)
days will result in cancellation of the permit. (1994 Code § 5-935)
 
Notes
1 See section
  2-2-8 of this code.
10-8-23: CHANGE IN OWNERSHIP, INTEREST OR OPERATOR:
   A.   Ownership Or Working Interest: Within thirty (30) days of a change in
working interest or ownership, the town shall be notified through the oil and
gas inspector.
   B.   Operator: If a change in operator is desired, thirty (30) days prior to
the date of conversion, the prospective permittee shall affirm the original
application with a signature backed by a power of attorney. Prior to the final
approval of the new permit, all required insurance policies must be filed with
the town clerk-treasurer. The reapplication fee shall be set by the town board
by motion or resolution 1 . (1994 Code § 5-934)
 
Notes
1 See section
  2-2-8 of this code.
10-8-24: TEMPORARY ABANDONED WELLS:
   If the Oklahoma corporation commission grants the temporary abandonment
status to a well, the town, through its oil and gas inspector, must review all
the abandoned plans. In any case, all fees, tests, and reports must continue as
though the well were in operation. Initial and financial statements as to the
operator's financial conditions shall be submitted annually. These statements
shall be signed by a disinterested third party. (1994 Code § 5-937)
10-8-25: RECORDS KEPT; CONFIDENTIALITY:
   Copies of all applications, notices, forms, records, logs (when released by
the corporation commission), change in operation forms and all similar
documents filed by the permittee with the corporation commission shall also be
filed with the oil and gas inspector within one week of filing with the
corporation commission. The oil and gas inspector shall keep confidential all
material submitted, unless such material is necessary as evidence in the
prosecution of any violation of the provisions of this chapter. (1994 Code § 5-
943)
10-8-26: VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED:
   No person shall engage in any work or erect any structure, tanks, machinery,
pipelines, or other appurtenances incident to the drilling for or production of
petroleum or natural gas, or operate, maintain, or permit any equipment,
structures or appurtenances incident to such production to exist, or use or
maintain any property or premises in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter or other town ordinances as may be applicable, or the laws, rules,
regulations, operative standards or directives of the state and federal
governments. (1994 Code § 5-904)
10-8-27: COMPLAINTS:
   If, upon information of inspection, it is found that a permittee is
violating any portion of this chapter or causing damage or pollution to any
surface or underground treatable water, the oil and gas inspector shall file a
written administrative complaint with the mayor, a copy of which shall be
delivered or mailed to the permittee or his agent. If, upon subsequent
inspection, it is determined that the permittee has taken the corrective
actions specified, the complaint may be dismissed; otherwise, formal
application will be made to the town board of trustees for an order revoking
the permit and for any other appropriate remedy. Pending the outcome of the
final determination of the town board of trustees on the formal application,
the oil and gas inspector shall, after an on site inspection, have the
authority to discontinue those operations where conditions appear obvious that
surface or underground pollution is occurring. (1994 Code § 5-938)
10-8-28: PENALTIES:
   A.   General Penalty: It is unlawful and an offense for any person to
violate or neglect to comply with any provisions hereof, irrespective of
whether or not the verbiage of each section hereof contains the specific
language that such violation or neglect is unlawful and is an offense. Any
person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter, or any of the
provisions of a drilling and operating permit issued pursuant hereto, or any
condition of the bond filed by the permittee pursuant to this chapter, or who
shall neglect to comply with the terms hereof, shall be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each violation of each separate provision of this chapter,
and of the permit, and of the bond shall be considered a separate offense. Each
day's violation of each separate provision shall be considered a separate
offense.
   B.   Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit: In addition to the foregoing
penalties, it is further provided that the town board of trustees, at any
regular or special session or meeting thereof, may, provided ten (10) days'
notice has been given to the permittee that revocation or suspension is to be
considered at such meeting, revoke or suspend any permit issued under this
chapter and under which drilling or producing operations are being conducted in
the event the permittee thereof has violated any provision of this chapter, of
the permit, or of the bond. In the event the permit is revoked, the permittee
may make application to the oil and gas inspector for reissuance of such
permit, and the action of the town shall be final. Any continuing offense shall
be considered a public nuisance, the remedies for which under law shall be in
addition to those hereinbefore enumerated 1 . (1994 Code § 5-939)
 
Notes
1 See title 5, chapter 2 of this code.
10-8-29: ORDER TO CEASE OPERATIONS:
   A.   Issuance Of Order: If the oil and gas inspector finds that, in his
judgment, a hazard to life or natural resources exists, he shall order
immediate rectification of the cause. If the permittee takes no immediate
measure to reduce the hazard, or if the situation is so perilous as to
constitute an imminent threat to safety, then, in either of these events, he
may order the prompt cessation of activity and, if necessary, the clearance of
the premises. (1994 Code § 5-940)
   B.   Hearing And Decisions: The oil and gas inspector shall apply to the
mayor for a hearing upon such order, which hearing shall be held not longer
than twenty four (24) hours after the issuance of the order by the oil and gas
inspector. The mayor shall determine if proper cause existed and, if not, shall
order the permittee's activity to resume without delay. If the mayor determines
that proper cause did exist for the order to cease activity to be issued, then
whatever ruling is proper to assure rectification of the cause of the peril
will be made. Such ruling and compliance with it by the permittee shall not be
construed to absolve the permittee of any liability for any violation of this
chapter or for any damage or injury caused thereby. (1994 Code § 5-940; amd.
2004 Code)
10-8-30: APPEALS:
   Any permittee aggrieved by any order, directive or filing issued by the oil
and gas inspector or by any ruling by the mayor may appeal the same to the town
board of trustees which shall hear the matter at its next scheduled meeting.
The board of trustees, upon hearing the matter, may issue whatever ruling or
order is appropriate; provided, that such ruling or order is in keeping with
the spirit and purpose of this chapter. (1994 Code § 5-941)
10-8-31: REOCCURRING RESPONSIBILITIES:
   The following is an example listing of the reoccurring activities to be
performed by the operating company:
   A.   Provide a listing of all current working interest owners;
   B.   Update any changes in the deleterious substances disposal plan;
   C.   Update the spill contingency plan;
   D.   Obtain and test samples from designated monitoring wells;
   E.   Conduct annual tests on all pressurized lines in use; (1994 Code § 5-
944)
   F.   Provide reports on the amount of deleterious substances produced and
provide receipts or certification from the disposal well operator certificating
proper disposal of this amount. If the operator has a disposal well within the
town, monthly volumes and average injection pressures must be reported and
certified on a yearly basis;
   G.   Perform and report on the results of all mechanical integrity tests;
and
   H.   If an operator has wells temporarily abandoned within the town, a third
party financial statement is required. (1994 Code § 5-944; amd. 2004 Code)
TITLE 11
FLOOD CONTROL
***** CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION *****
SECTION:
11-1-1: Findings Of Fact
11-1-2: Purpose
11-1-3: Methods Of Accomplishing Purpose
11-1-4: Definitions
11-1-5: Application; Interpretation; Compliance
11-1-6: Floodplain Administrator
11-1-7: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
11-1-8: Development Permit
11-1-9: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
11-1-10: Standards For Subdivision Proposals
11-1-11: Variances
11-1-12: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
11-1-13: Violation; Penalty
11-1-1: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation which
results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of
commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public expenditures for
flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare. These flood losses are created by the cumulative
effect of obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights
and velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable
to floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed, or otherwise protected from flood damage. (Ord. 2016-001, 6-6-
2016)
11-1-2: PURPOSE:
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
prone area. (Ord. 2016-001, 6-6-2016)
11-1-3: METHODS OF ACCOMPLISHING PURPOSE:
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations are established to:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 2016-001, 6-6-2016)
11-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
APEX: A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path
of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable, and alluvial fan
flooding can occur.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH or VO zone on the town's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater annual chance of
flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (1' - 3'), where a clearly
defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and
where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding
or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within the town
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM).
After detailed rate-making has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, zone A usually is refined into zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30,
VE or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
ELEVATED BUILDING:
   A.   A nonbasement building:
      1.   Built, in the case of a building in zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH,
B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the elevated floor, or in the case of a
building in zones V1-30, VE, or V, to have the bottom of the lowest horizontal
structure member of the elevated floor elevated above the ground level by means
of pilings, columns (posts and piers), or shear walls parallel to the flow of
the water; and
      2.   Adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of
the building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood.
   B.   In the case of zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, D, "elevated
building" also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid
foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movement of floodwaters.
   C.   In the case of zones V1-30, VE, or V, "elevated building" also includes
a building otherwise meeting the definition of "elevated building", even though
the lower area is enclosed by means of breakaway walls, if the breakaway walls
meet the standards of section 60.3(e)(5) of the national flood insurance
program regulations.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM, or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date.
"Existing construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
the floodplain management regulations adopted by the town.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM): An official map of the town issued by the
administrator where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide (mudflow) related
erosion areas having special hazards have been designated as zones A, M or E.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map of the town, on which the
federal emergency management agency has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the town.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal emergency
management agency. The report contains flood profiles, the water surface
elevation of the base flood, as well as the flood boundary-floodway map.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within the town subject to a special flood hazard and the extent of the depths
of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and
other applications of police power. The term describes such state or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOODPRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source. (See definition of Flooding.)
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river, or other watercourse,
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than a designated height.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose,
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities and port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily determined
by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's "lowest floor"; provided, that
such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the national
flood insurance program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one (1) or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on the town's flood insurance rate map are referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the "start of
construction" commenced on or after the effective date of the floodplain
management regulation adopted by the town and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the town.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: (For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the coastal barrier resources act, Pub. L. 97-348) includes
substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, placement or
other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date.
The "actual start" means either the first placement of permanent construction
of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
"Permanent construction" does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not as part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the "actual start of construction" means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of construction" of
the improvement. This includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure"; provided, that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this chapter
when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance,
therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited
by this chapter. (For full requirements, see section 60.6 of the national flood
insurance program regulations.)
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the town's floodplain management regulations. A structure or
other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or
other evidence of compliance required in section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10),
(d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) of the national flood insurance program
regulations is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. 2016-001, 6-6-2016)
11-1-5: APPLICATION; INTERPRETATION; COMPLIANCE:
   A.   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the town.
   B.   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its
use changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
   C.   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this
chapter and another regulation conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   D.   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions
shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the board of trustees; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes. (Ord. 2016-001, 6-6-2016)
11-1-6: FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Appointment: The town clerk-treasurer is hereby appointed to administer
and implement the provisions of this chapter and appropriate sections of the
national flood insurance program regulations pertaining to floodplain
management.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: Duties and responsibilities of the
floodplain administrator shall include, but shall not be limited to, the
following:
      1.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter;
      2.   Review permit applications to determine whether a proposed building
site will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      3.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by section
11-1-8 of this chapter;
      4.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required;
      5.   Make the necessary interpretation where interpretation is needed as
to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard
(for example, where there appears to be conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions);
      6.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the
Oklahoma water resources board prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the federal emergency
management agency; or
      7.   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished; and
      8.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with section
11-1-7 of this chapter, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood
elevation data available from a federal, state, or other source, in order to
administer the provision of sections
11-1-9 and
11-1-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-001, 6-6-2016)
11-1-7: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency
management agency on its flood hazard boundary map dated 1971, and any
revisions thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this chapter. (Ord. 2016-001, 6-6-2016)
11-1-8: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT 1
:
   A.   Permit Required: A development permit shall be required to ensure
conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for a development permit shall be
presented to the town floodplain administrator on forms furnished by the
administrator and may include, but shall not be limited to, plans in duplicate,
drawn to scale, showing the location, dimensions, and elevation of proposed
landscape alterations, existing and proposed structures, including the
placement of manufactured homes, and the location of the foregoing in relation
to areas of special flood hazard. Additionally, the following information is
required:
      1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures.
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed.
      3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of subsection
11-1-9B of this chapter.
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      5.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with this
chapter.
   C.   Approval Or Denial Of Application: Approval or denial of a development
permit by the town floodplain administrator shall be based on all of the
provisions of this chapter and the following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems;
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
      10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area. (Ord. 2016-001, 6-6-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 2-2-9 of this code for permit fee.
11-1-9: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard, the following
provisions are required for all new construction and substantial improvement:
      1.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      2.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      3.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      4.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      6.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters; and
      7.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   B.   Specific Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard where base
flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in sections
11-1-7,
11-1-8 and
11-1-10 of this chapter, the following provisions are required:
      1.   Residential Construction: New construction or substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the floodplain administrator that the standard of this subsection B1, as
proposed in subsection
11-1-8 of this chapter, is satisfied;
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to one (1) or
more feet above the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the
structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered
professional engineer or architect shall develop or review structural design,
specifications, and plans for the construction, and shall certify that the
design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of
practice as outlined in this subsection. A record of such certification, which
includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such
structures are floodproofed, shall be maintained by the floodplain
administrator;
      3.   Manufactured Homes: Require that all manufactured homes be placed
within zone A on the town's FHBM or FIRM, and they shall be installed using
methods and practices which minimize flood damage. For the purpose of this
requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but
are not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces. (Ord. 2016-001, 6-6-2016)
11-1-10: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
   A.   All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, shall be consistent with sections
11-1-1,
11-1-2, and
11-1-3 of this chapter.
   B.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions, including
manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall meet development permit
requirements of section
11-1-8 of this chapter and the provisions of section
11-1-9 of this chapter as well as this section.
   C.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (commercial and residential), including
manufactured home parks and subdivisions, which is greater than fifty (50) lots
or five (5) acres, whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to
sections
11-1-7 and
11-1-8 of this chapter.
   D.   All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
   E.   All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, shall have public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems, located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
(Ord. 2016-001, 6-6-2016)
11-1-11: VARIANCES:
   A.   Procedure And Appeals Generally:
      1.   The appeal board (town board of trustees to serve as) shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
      2.   The appeal board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only
when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
      3.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal
such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
      4.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the federal emergency
management agency upon request.
   B.   Certain Variances Permitted; Conditions:
      1.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in section
11-1-9 and
11-1-10 of this chapter.
      2.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, provided the relevant factors in subsection
11-1-8B of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases,
beyond the one half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
      3.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functional dependent use; provided, that:
         a.   The criteria outlined in this section are met; and
         b.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damage during the base flood and create no additional threats to
public safety.
      4.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter.
   C.   Certain Variances Prohibited: Variances shall not be issued within any
designated floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
   D.   Prerequisites For Granting Variances: Prerequisites for granting
variances include the following:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   E.   Notice Granting Variance: Any applicant to whom a variance is granted
shall be given written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built
with a lowest floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost
of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation. (Ord. 2016-001, 6-6-2016)
11-1-12: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur, and flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the town or any officer or employee
thereof for any flood damage that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 2016-001, 6-6-2016)
11-1-13: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Any person who violates or refuses to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
(Ord. 2016-001, 6-6-2016)
 
